******
8 April 2002
10
I believe everyone has a right to their opinion about films or other
topics. However from a lot of the comments I have read about this film,
I do not think many got the gist of the message from the author and the
film maker. This film is a great modern fable, a fable in the
dictionary is defined as a brief fictitious story that teaches a moral.
There are many morals defined in this film but foremost is integrity
and a simple goodness.I have a half brother who grew up in the Southern U.S. and on one
occasion we were discussing this film and he said he felt it portrayed
Southerners as dimwitted. I disagreed with him and informed him that
the author himself was a native Southerner. The setting is central to
this story in that it lets the tale unfold tying in factual events with
the fable before us.The film is wonderfully directed by Robert Zemeckis, the film is his
opus and is acted by a great cast on all levels. From the children who
were Forrest Gump and Gump Jr. by Haley Joel Osment. Say what you want
but I feel Tom Hanks deserved the Oscar award. Gary Sinise is
synonymous with Lt.Dan whenever you hear those words. Sally Fields is
the loving dutiful mother in her challenging situation. Mykelti
Williamson as Bubba gives you a real sense in the story that Gump had a
genuine friend, he moves you with his character. Words don't grasp the
full performance of Robin Wright Penn as Jenny. Jennys' tenderness and
pain are palpable as exhibited by Wright.I feel that much of Gumps' appeal is his downright sense of doing the
right thing regardless of the people and situations around him and we
see that in this film. That being the case maybe we all wish we could
be just a little more like that, trying to maintain innate goodness and
not the trade-offs we often make as we go down lifes highways.The movie has it all too,drama,comedy and it challenges societal norms
as well. Then there are the almost endless quotes from the movie that
have slipped into everyday speech. They are too numerous to say at this
point.One of the toppers for me in the movie is when Forrest is in a
quandary about life and wondering as Lt.Dan said we all have a destiny
and his Mom says it is where we are all just floating around like a
feather in the wind. Forrest's character terms it very well with this
quote,"I think it is a little bit of both." From my experiences in life
it does appear to be that way. So if you have not seen the movie,see it
soon you are in for a real treat. If you did not like it, give it a try
again and hopefully you will see it for the great story it is!

******
14 May 2007
10
Quite simply, the greatest film ever made.Humour, sadness, action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one.I'm not a stone cold, heartless villain, but it takes a lot to make me
cry when I watch a movie. Bambi's mother, I couldn't care less. Jimmy
Stewart in, "Oh, what a wonderful life," - yeah right! The Lion King,
when Mufasa bites the big one - on the verge.But seriously - I bawled my big brown eyes out, on several occasions in
this film. A real tear-jerker, and a wonderful character, played to
perfection by Tom Hanks. Every bit as worthy for the Oscar as Rooney
was to win the Premiership in 2007.I cannot say it enough: This is THE film of all time. Watch it, and
you'll see.

******
25 May 2005
10
When I first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now. I
think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it. Just
recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving
meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of
it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an
innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning
of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on
life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let
the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us
trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to
just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we
all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that
feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who
hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest
seeing it or seeing it again. It truly is amazing...

******
14 February 2005
10
What I find completely ridiculous is why this movie, in my opinion one
of the best ever, has such a low rating, so I've tried to figure out
what some found against it.I noticed that the haters of this movie who
make it have a lower rating than it actually deserves mainly argue that
it promotes the government's politics of submission: the idea that "if
you're an idiot but you do what you're told then you will be rewarded,
but, if you experience life then you're going to die a miserable
death." I'm not an American myself so i don't have any intention to
defend the government or anyone else, but I think that the political
events witnessed by the character in the movie make many miss the whole
substance of the film. I think these bits of history only add to the
magic of the film, making Forrest part of a fantastic world that seems
so incredibly real though. How can somebody say that Forrest is just an idiot, an ordinary person
who does everything that he is told to do? It appears to me that in
fact,in his innocence, Forrest does what he feels he has to do,no
matter the situations and the people around him, lead only by an inner
sense of right. So what actually seems to be special about Forrest is
that, regardless of his intelligence, he has the capacity to discover
simple truth and life values that all the others around him miss: he
tries to save Bubba endangering his own life, he gives Bubba's family
money and mainly displays simple goodness in everything he does. So if you haven't yet seen the movie or you were disappointed by it,
try watching it without analyzing things that much and just open your
heart towards that world. The brilliant humour, the hilarious yet
touching acting, the special effects and the uplifting message are
totally rewarding.

******
20 June 2005
10
This is a powerful yet charming movie; fun for its special effects and
profound in how it keeps you thinking long after it's over. Like
others, I've seen this movie more than once. One comment I've never
heard is that Forrest's simplicity is almost zen-like. I should read
the novel to get the author's intention (I remember some people
preferring the book and complaining that no one at the Academy Awards
gave him any credit.) But rather than an implication that you should do
what you're supposed to do and believe in God and you'll win in the
end, I see it as zen-like, i.e., living in the moment and not having
expectations or particular cravings (other than his loving Jenny.) So
he ends up just stumbling into all the major historical events of the
time. Granted, he achieves this only because he doesn't have the brains
to think otherwise and actually have expectations, but so many of our
problems are because we do have higher intellect and desires, which
ironically makes us unhappy because we know what we are missing. We
love our cats and dogs for the same simplicity and always being in the
moment. There's a line in the movie wondering if everything is
predestined or happens randomly or it's a combination of both. It is
something to mull over for a long time.

******
31 May 2004
10

I have seen this movie easily a half a dozen times, and I find that the
beauty of the film is how Forrest Gump not only shares his innocence
and purity with others, including the audience, he also manages to
retain that innocence and purity through some very difficult times. As
a Viet Nam veteran, and a college graduate of the late Sixties, I could
of course personally relate to the various periods that Forrest Gump
endures. I would only mention that the skillful and seamless blending
of music, action, and period costume was enthralling. And yet it was so
perfectly understated that Forrest Gump's travels through thirty five
years of the stormiest and most meaningful years of American history
only became clearly defined for the viewer. Even more so than the well
known chocolates quote as a metaphor for life, I felt that the remark
that stupid is what you do is probably more workable for most of us.


******
10 June 2002
10
"I've made about 20 films and 5 of them are pretty good"-Tom Hanks."Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time, guaranteed. I
really just love this movie and it has such a special place in my
heart. The performances are just so unforgettable and never get out of
your head. The characters, I mean the actors turned into them and
that's what got to me. The lines are so memorable, touching, and
sometimes hilarious.We have Forrest Gump(Tom Hanks), not the sharpest tool in the box, his
I.Q. is right below the average scores. But his mama(Sally Field)
believes that her boy has the same opportunities as anyone else and
lets Forrest know that there's nothing that could hold him back. As a
boy he is put into braces for his legs since he has a crooked back and
really doesn't have too many friends. When he gets on a school bus for
his first day of school, NO ONE will let him sit next to them. This
scene is so heart breaking until you hear a little angel's voice "You
can sit here if you want". Jenny, Forrest's best friend and crush, she
looks so incredibly innocent and you love her because her and Forrest
are like pea's and carrots. But we find out that there is an extremely
unfortunate side to her life, she has a father that's "always kissing
and touching her and her sisters". Forrest just assumes that it's a
father's love since he doesn't have a dad that could show him that it's
wrong.Forrest and Jenny together walk every day from school and when these
kids start throwing rocks at Forrest calling him stupid, Jenny just
tells Forrest "Run, Forrest! Run!". He miraculously breaks the braces
off his legs and run like the wind blows. Forrest meets many
celebrities from his life that just happened to be there: Elvis Presley
visited his house before hitting it big, President Kennedy honored him
with a all American football award, President Johnson who honored him
with a medal of honor for his actions in Vietnam, President Nixon(in
which Forrest happens to discover a problem in the Water Gate Hotel
because some people seem to be flashing lights around), and John Lennon
through a talk show to talk about his medal of honor.Forrest meets some interesting people along the way too that are even
better than these celebrities combined; Bubba his Vietnam war friend
who dreams of owning a shrimp boat one day and was born with big gums.
He is just so wonderful and charming and won't stop talking about
shrimp. Luteniet Dan, a leader of Forrest's army in Vietnam who gets
saved by Forrest during a huge attack and looses his legs as a result.
Luteniet Dan was by far my favorite character, he has so much pride and
wants to die in Vietnam due to his family history tradition of dying in
every single American war. He and Forrest make quite a pair. And of
course there's Jenny, a very tragic figure, she gets more mean as she
grows up because she knows that Forrest loves her, in some ways you
can't blame her really. She was obviously abused and I think she felt
that Forrest was too good for her or that he couldn't really give her
the love she wanted. Robin Wright, what a beautiful and wonderful
actress.This movie is incredible and should be seen by everyone. I am not
kidding, "Forrest Gump" is a remarkable movie and inspires everyone.
It's not just about someone stupid who happens to be in great places
and historic events just because of being in the right place at the
right time. This story is beautiful and will inspire everyone to go the
distance and see the world like Forrest did and will never give up on
their dreams.10/10

******
23 April 2005
10
Starring: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Sally Field This was
flat out one of the best movies of 1994. It won best picture for a
reason, along with a few other Academy Awards. I think one of the tag
lines for the movie was, "The world will never be the same once you've
seen it through the eyes of Forrest Gump." How true. The movie is
basically one simple man's journey through life. And what a journey.The movie opens with Forrest (Hanks) sitting at a bus stop, waiting to
go see Jenny (Wright) after being apart from her for years. Who is
Jenny, you ask? We'll get to that in a minute. Forrest strikes up a
conversation or two with the people that come and wait for the bus with
him. Or, more accurately, he keeps talking regardless of whether
anybody is listening or not. The movie plays out as a flashback, with
Forrest taking us through all the major events of his life and
narrating them.The flashback starts when Forrest is a little boy, about six years old
or so, just at about the age where he should be starting school. We get
to take a look at Forrest's childhood as he gets leg braces to
straighten out his back, as his momma (Field) fights (and does a few
other things) to get him into public school, and as he meets for the
first time the love of his life. Jenny. He meets her on the way to
school, sitting next to her on the bus, and they strike up a friendship
immediately.Eventually we progress to the point where Forrest and Jenny are in high
school, and we travel along with Forrest as he makes it onto the
football team and gets to go to college. Forrest and Jenny never date,
but he's always there to protect her. Anytime he thinks she's in
trouble, he rushes to the rescue, ready to beat the ever-loving snot
out of anyone who even looks at his Jenny wrong. I think one of my
favorite scenes in the movie is when someone is dumb enough to slap
Jenny. The film goes slow motion, Forrest's eyes go wide, and he starts
charging at this guy like a runaway locomotive, and has the striking
force of one too. Watching him beat the crap out of that guy is
hilarious.As Forrest grows up and goes through school, college, the army, a
Vietnam tour, becomes a ping pong celebrity, a shrimp boat captain, and
eventually one of the richest men out there, he also gets to take a few
stops in history as the filmmaker gives us his own spin of how he
thinks history would have happened if Forrest Gump were there. He gets
to meet the President three times, he's the man who exposes the
Watergate scandal, he's at the school doors when Governor George
Wallace tries to get some Negroes into a white school, and so on and so
forth. It's really funny the way they manipulate historical footage to
insert Forrest into the events of the past.This is truly a great movie. You'd be a fool to miss it.Bottom Line: 4 out of 4 (own this movie)

******
13 March 2003
10
FORREST GUMP (1994) **** Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright, Gary
Sinise, Mykelti Williamson. Brilliantly directed and inspiring comic
drama about the truly extraordinary life and times of mentally
challenged Forrest Gump (Hanks in the best role of his career won his
second Best Actor Oscar in back-to-back winning roles), a simple,
honest, and decent man whose childlike innocence is his lucky charm
through his altering experiences that span the past two decades
flawlessly. Mind-boggling Oscar-winning computerized effects by
Industrial Light & Magic has Gump meeting the famous and infamous.
Hanks is a wonder (dare you not to get a lump in your throat when it
finally registers that he has a child {yes, that's Haley Joel Osment}-
watch his face!) and gets fine support especially Wright as the love of
his life and Sinise as his best friend (Best Supporting Actor nominee)
superior adaptation of Winston Groom's novel by Eric Roth (also an
Academy Award recepient) that truly captures lightning in a bottle.
Oscars also went to director Robert Zemeckis and for Best Picture. ***
One of my all-time favorite flicks. I still cry, particularly Forrest
telling Jenny why he loves her so much ("You're my girl!") and at the
gravesite when the birds fly overhead.

******
22 December 2006
10
This awesome movie is about an innocent man who represents how the
world should be: he's loyal, humble, honest, he would never cheat or
lie. He does everything with good heart and reaches success at the most
important tasks of life.Only in America he could live such an interesting life: meet Elvis
Presley, President Kennedy, John Lennon... He goes to Vietnam's war and
he does everything following his heart. He becomes an American hero. Gary Sinise is a great American actor in his best performance too. He
served in Vietnam with Forrest and was also a hero, protecting his men
and fighting for his country.All in all this is a must-see movie for everyone, specially for
non-Americans, so we can enjoy American culture and icons, as well as
learn some American history, which is very useful.

******
15 December 2007
10
He may have been good in Philadelphia but be is excellent in Forrest
Gump.Tom Hanks delivers another great performance in his career by
portraying the lovable,king yet not so intelligent character Forrest
Gump.It is also Tom Hanks' second straight win for the Best Actor Oscar
which he becomes the second man to do said accomplishment after Spencer
Tracy.Whilst not as dramatic as Philadelphia,Tom Hanks' performance is
just as great in this movie and this movie could possibly be the film
of Tom Hanks' career as he used to be a comedy guy who turned to drama
in a way which would paved for future stars such as Jim Carrey(The
Truman Show),Reese Witherspoon(Walk the Line) and Will Ferrell(Stranger
Than Fiction) to name a few.Also staring in this great movie classic
are Robin Wright-Penn who plays Jenny,Gary Sinise who was nominated for
an Academy Award for his portrayal of Lieutenant Dan Taylor,Mykelti
Williamson as Forrest's best friend and shrimper Benjamin Buford"Bubba"
Blue and Sally Field as Mrs.Gump.This film was nominated for a total of
thirteen Academy Awards but won six of them which include Best Film
Editing,Best Visual Effects,Best Adapted Screenplay,Best Picture,Best
Director-Robert Zemeckis and Best Actor-Tom Hanks.This is one
masterpiece of a movie that will not be forgotten about in a long
time.Bravo!

******
1 December 2007
10
I've seen most of the top-voted 30 or 40 movies here at IMDb, and
Forrest Gump probably wins my vote for the single best movie ever made.This is not a conclusion I came to the first time I saw this film, or
the second. The more you understand about this movie, the more you like
it. And in terms of understanding it, my wife and I both were still
gaining new understanding the 5th or 6th time we watched it. (For
example: Why does Jenny behave exactly as she does throughout the
movie? It'll take a lot of thinking to =fully= understand her.)Just the fact that we've seen it at least half a dozen times says a
lot. There are few movies that I ever even give a second viewing. Like many of the truly good movies, there are people out there who see
it once and consider it to be a waste of time. Such people are usually
just looking for the most "action," gore and sex they can find, and
haven't a clue about films that actually involve thought, ideas, and
life.Did I mention the script is absolutely brilliant? There are a lot of
=truly= funny moments. And the music rocks. But those are only specific
aspects of a movie that has just about everything else right about it
as well.See it, enjoy it, think about it, see it again. Think about it some
more. Forrest Gump is one of the greatest movies -- if not THE greatest
-- ever made.

******
1 April 2000
10

Winston Groom's Forrest Gump was a novel that was complicated, but (Oscar
winning) director Robert Zemeckis brings events together with visual effects
that boggle even George Lucas. And leading the film in this odyssey of American life is Tom Hanks playing
Gump (he won his second Oscar for his portrayal) in a film that shows one
man who goes through many events in history to find the one he loves.  Well
done, well acted, and well directed to pythagorean procision. 
A++

******
19 November 2008
10
I saw this movie in the theaters back in 1994. When it was released on
VHS I obtained that version. I've watched the movie about once every
two years since then. This is an amazing movie in any number of ways.
One big way it amazes me, is the way which it, as a simple and
guileless little story, like a feather wafting in the breeze,
nevertheless evokes raw rank hatred and eyeball-bulging, forehead
vein-popping, spittle-spewing vitriol from liberals and so-called
"intellectuals" who are absolutely certain that, like a guided missile,
it is seeking them out, intentionally, personally, to insult them with
rightwing thoughts and ideas, and by a nitwit character no less.
Hahahaha. As if.So let's first thing pop that little pea right out of the shooter.
Let's dispense with the bilge of this movie being some kind of sub rosa
rightwing plot. Puh-leeeze. This is a mainstream Hollywood production.
Robert Zemeckis, Tom Hanks, Sally Field, and Robin Wright Penn are all
known Hollywood lefties, liberal devotees who would take the pipe long
before allowing themselves to be associated with or be used by anything
akin a rightwing movie, let alone be openly and voluntarily involved in
making one. Bottom line, this is not a political movie. This is not a
movie which is making any kind of political or social statements in any
respect. People who think it is doing any of that are just working way
too hard over-thinking it all. Period. It's odd because it's really not
all that complicated of a thing to understand. Which leads directly to
another amazing thing about this movie: it is amazing the way the
simple little message the movie is actually sending just sails right
over so many people's heads. Amazingly they just don't get it, and
based on the comments here they still aren't getting it 14 years later
and counting. So if you fall into that category let me help you out.What is the message of Forrest Gump? Stripped to its purest essence,
this movie is about loyalty and devotion, particularly to the ones in
our lives we love and care about. These are the human values being
reinforced. Loyalty. Devotion. Forrest Gump embodies loyalty and
devotion. To his mama. To his good best buddy Bubba. To the love of his
life, Jenny. To his leader, Lt. Dan. And in the end to Forrest Jr. One
by one and all together Forrest sticks by and takes care of his family,
friends, and loved ones. This is the thread running through the entire
story. This is what carries Forrest to all of the remarkable places he
goes along the way.The use of a mentally challenged man as the leading man is a conceit,
used to illustrate the point that loyalty and devotion are the most
important things in life, trumping everything else. It drives home the
point that nothing else really matters anywhere near as much. Indeed,
it drives it home with blunt force. Maybe it drives it home too hard
for such a simple little point. Maybe this is where the movie's
detractors get themselves side-tracked. There are a number of other amazing and remarkable things about this
movie. The performances. The special effects. The almost poetic
simplicity of the story and the way it is told. See it for all this and
more, but please, don't over-think it.

******
22 May 2012
1
If this movie were a puppy, it would jump on top of you, wag its tail,
lick your face, roll over and present its belly for rubbing, follow you
home and hump your leg. It tries so hard to ingratiate itself with what
it considers the average American moviegoer of the time, it seems like
it was written by a whole committee of campaigning politicians instead
of a couple writers. It's the most hollow, contrived piece of
baby-boomer mind candy ever projectile vomited onto the national
consciousness. It's offensive to mentally retarded people because it
patronizingly shows Gump (Tom Hanks) achieving a kind of
generation-sweeping fantasy success that no human being,
so-called-mentally-challenged or not, could ever hope to achieve, yet
still places him in a fairly realistic world (the Viet Nam scenes, for
example, were pretty true-to-life in their violence and bloodiness).
It's offensive to intelligent viewers because it's storyline and
message are as simplistic as the title character. The Dick Cavett Show
clip in which John Lennon, sitting next to Gump, simply speaks the
lyrics to his song "Imagine" was just plain stupid. It's like the
writers think the public will think they're exalting them in some kind
of new and profound way by making all the popular imagery and beliefs
that we've been force-fed throughout our lives into the actual
foundation of a person's life. It's like they're saying, "No, it's not
just popular entertainment, it's the stuff that makes up your existence
and defines you as a person, and that's all you need, so stop trying to
challenge yourself, stop trying to think original thoughts." George
Orwell was right in "1984" about the control and manipulation and
subjugation of our wills and bodies and intellects, but the source is
different. The worst of it isn't coming from the police or the military
or the people we work for, but from our entertainment - movies and
internet and T.V. - the very things that are supposed to be an escape,
at least in our imaginations, from all that drudgery and bullish*t and
hassle of the world, and that makes it more insidious and effective.
The scene near the end of the movie that takes place in the early 80s
in which Jenny (Robin Wright) tells Gump she has some kind of "new
disease" is an insult to the audience. Are we supposed to feel clever
and proud of ourselves for realizing it's AIDS? Would it be considered
bad writing if she just said, "I have this new disease called AIDS"?
Also, I heard that the producers spent seven million dollars to
digitally erase Gary Sinise's legs instead of hiring a legless actor,
which seems a little hypocritical considering the message of the movie
that so-called-disabled people can do great things. This is the worst
best-loved movie of all time!

******
19 March 2001
1
Forrest Gump is a classic example of the sanctimonious garbage that people
are willing to swallow simply because Tom Hanks is involved.  If the film
had a more a satiric perspective maybe I could appreciate it.It begins appallingly and maniputively with a stereotypically Southern
Sally
Field and her idiot son 'FAUST' battling through tough times and meeting a
whole lot of important people that real people like us will never ever
meet.
Elvis is one that is easily recalled.
Through the remainder of the film we are supposed to endure one
implausibility after another: Forrest meets the president, Forrest becomes
a
ping pong champion, Forrest becomes a Vietnam vet and Forrest discovers a
cure for cancer! (well maybe that scene doesnt happen but i wouldnt be
surprised if it was cut just prior to release).
While people were going ga-ga at the way Forrest floats through life like
a
feather (a pathetic symbol that is ridiculously used in the film), i was
seriously being sick.The central performance of Hanks is one that is truly embarrassing he is
stiff, lifeless and codescending.  It seems as though Hanks' was studying
children to breath life into Forrest, if this is so maybe he should put
himself on their level rather than looking down at them as dribbling, pre
pubescent morons. The remainder of the cast similarly sleepwalk through
the
one dimensional roles they are presented with,  only Gary Sinise deserves
to
garner any praise here.  The lines that spew forth from the characters'
mouths were initially praised as incisive observations about our lives -
WHAT!!!   They are dopey, uninventive and quite frankly wrong.  "life is
like a box of chocolates- you never know what youre gonna get" - yes you
do
they are pictured on the back of the box.I would rather have a vital organ removed than recommend this dross to
anyone over the age of five!

******
15 January 2004
2

How can you start talking about a movie like "Forrest Gump" without being
bias on the whole hype that has been surrounding it since it came out. For
someone who actually knows about films, it is a personal insult that the
Academy Awards considered this movie to be in higher standards than...Pulp Fiction
The Shawshank Redemption
Quiz Show
and even Four Weddings and a Funeraland how could Robert Zemeckis' (I hate that name) work be considered
better
than...Krzysztof Kieslowski for RED!!!!!!!!!!!
Quentin Tarantino for PULP FICTION!!!!!!
Woody Allen for BULLETS OVER BROADWAY!!!!!!
Robert Redford for QUIZ SHOW!!!!!!!
Not to mention that the Academy is such an airhead that Frank Darabont the
director of The Shawshank Redemption wasn't even nominated!!!!!!Let's consider MANY important factors for this movie to be loved blindly,
without a true sense of reflection and observation.Number 1: I have to much time on my hands,Number 2: It stars Tom Hanks who undoubtedly represents the white,
flawless
way of American Life. He is the Jimmy Stewart of today (that could not
hurt). He is talented, but highly overrated. He has some excellent
performances, but he always seems the same to me. He could never have the
talent that actors like Gary Oldman, Ed Harris, Sean Penn, Russell Crowe
or
Denzel Washington have to reinvent themselves every time in a different
role. He is the typical American male sweetheart, regardless everybody
loves
him. His star power more than his ability as an actor helped this movie to
get sold and appreciated.Number 3: Stories about characters with disabilities always, and I mean
always sell in Hollywood (Rainman, I am Sam, Nell, My Left Foot,
Awakenings,
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest) not that I am saying that these great
films
compare to Forrest Gump, but the idea itself whether good or bad
sells.Number 4: The history of the United States is taken rather lightly in this
movie, all the events that take place around the character happen without
his knowledge in the most unconvincing of methods. Racism, Vietnam,
meeting
a number of American Presidents, his unheard speech at Lincoln Memorial,
the
hippies, drugs, Bubba Gump shrimp, apple computers, amongst other historic
events in which the character gets involved, but does not seem to grasp
the
magnitude of those very events. He is mentally handicaped as we are shown
from the beginning, so because we are suppose to believe that he is
emotionally handicap too. He never seems to get emotionally affected by
anything, unless it involves Jenny, even then it does not appear to be
convincing or moving in any way.Number 5: The story itself appears to me as manipulative, sappy,
uncompromised and made in half measures. It touches certain issues, but
never dwells on them with justice. The ingenuity of the character, his
disability seems enough reason to feel that all the events are seen with a
certain depth. Which they are not. It is unfair, because Hanks' charm and
Gump's likeable stupidity work as a hook to entangle people's emotions. It
never allows for anyone to make an effort to see beyond the  story and
into
the gut of what was attempted to be said.Number 6: Stupid moments, everybody loves them, Hollywood is an expert of
what people like and what they want to spend their money on. Gump begins a
"marathon" across the country for no real reason at all, half way decides
he's had enough, by then the entire country was following him (as a
metaphor
for the movie itself). Elvis Presley the King or Rock ends up as a
youngster, who knows how, in Gump's house as a visitor. Gump who has
braces
in his legs miraclously teaches him the dance moves that made him famous.
Something that I personally cannot consider to be taken lightly is an
issue
like the Vietnam War, but Forrest somehow manages to run in and out the
jungle in the middle war saving people left and right. Maybe Zemeckis
never
read a book or even watched a film (Apocalypse Now, Platoon, Full Metal
Jacket, Casualties of War) to illustrate him on what really happened on
that
war. Young soldiers were getting killed by the dozen. Forrest Gump is a
fairy tale based on unfounded grounds and hypocritical notions of
"reality".
Oliver Stone dedicated his film Platoon to the American soldiers in
Vietnam,
he went there for real and saw what happened. Zemeckis has decided to
ignore
all these factors and still believe that his adored character could even
be
immune to a experience like Vietnam (in every aspect possible).To conclude please do not let yourself be manipulated, not just because
Forrest Gump won the oscar for Best Picture makes it one of the best films
of the 90's. The "sweetness" of this movie is not even sweet, its only the
a
ploy, a sales pitch of the American Dream.
In 20 years who will remember Forrest Gump, and more importantly who will
remember that film when The Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction are
still
in people's memories for real reasons. They are art films, Forrest Gump
the
oscar's favorite.And seriously folks if you haven't seen Kieslowski's RED run over to
blockbuster and rent it. Its the end of the Color Trilogy. Then you'll
know
what we mean.thank you.
VIVA EL CINE!!!!

******
7 June 1999
1

I usually do not write comments about films that I hate, but this film
sucked so bad that I had to make an exception. This is one of the 10 worst
films I have seen in my life. My profound apologies go out to those of you
who loved this film, but I just couldn't stand it.Let's start with the plot, wait a minute, there is no plot. The only point
of the film is seeing a not so bright man make his way through 30 years of
history. Throughout his life, he fought in Vietnam, and saved Gary
Sinise's
life, who was very unappreciative of Forrest for doing so. He becomes a
multi-millionaire in the shrimp business, he wins the international
ping-pong tournament, meets 3 presidents, discovers the Watergate
break-in,
sees his mother pass away, and then wastes 3 1/2 years of his life
literally
running from coast to coast and back again. (right), and finally his one
and
only love comes back to him only because she is dying of cancer. Forrest
Gump has been called the best feel good film of the 1990's, but I didn't
feel good after seeing this film, and it's $350 million in the box office
didn't inspire me to enjoy this film.The thing that surprises me the most about Forrest Gump was the fact that
it
took the Best Picture Oscar, even over Pulp Fiction, and The Shawshank
Redemption. Two films that are so far superior to this one that I can't
even
believe it. For those of you who have not seen Forrest Gump, you're
fortunate.

******
11 April 2002
1

This has to be one of the worst films I've ever seen. Despite the best
efforts of the actors, most of whom are very talented, the ridiculous and
corny plot makes this a real chore to watch.You get the feeling that the director was trying to make a modern "Homer's
Odyssey", but ended up instead with "Homer Simpson's Odyssey" - sans
laughs.
This movie offers lowest common denominator entertainment: patronization
to
those with learning difficulties, a twisted view on history, naive
jingoism,
and a nauseatingly contrived ending.When I first saw this movie I began wondering whether I was being too
harsh
on it. However, after talking to between fifteen and twenty other people,
I've come to the conclusion that I was being quite fair. None of those
I've
spoken to liked this film.If you like bubble-gum then you will probably like Forrest Gump. If
however,
you like movies with some semblance of intelligence or real entertainment
you will probably be disappointed by this movie.


******
4 February 2015
10
Can't take credit for this gem. Even if I am her mother.Forest Gump: Movie review by JosephineSo, it's about this really stupid grown-up and there's blood and stuff
and it's not appropriate for anyone else in my class, probably, but,
you know, you guys let me watch stuff like this. What is up with that?
And there's this really bad girl named Jenny, and I hated her clothes.
But once she cuts her hair she turns good again. And a guy with no
legs, who was weird. He made shrimp, which is gross, except for the
popcorn kind. He got a lot better when he cut his hair, too. I liked
it. It was funny. Can I watch it again tonight?

******
20 August 2002
2

For the life of me I will never understand the popularity of this movie.
It
is nothing more than a tedious, painfully melodramatic
mess.The entire film is based on a gimmick that is repeated ad nauseum until
eventually I just wanted to chew off one of my hands instead of watching
another minute.  That gimmick consists of inserting Forrest into an
historic
event and watching him emerge triumphant.  That the film repeatedly has
Forrest living through (and becoming a hero in) the most tumultuous times
in
recent American history---Vietnam, segregation, the Cold War, etc.---is an
insult to the people who lived through those times.  To say that Forrest,
with all his moronic wisdom, is smarter than those who actually
experienced
the event into which Forrest is digitally inserted is nothing short of an
affront to America itself.One of the greatest tragedies in its Oscar sweep is that "Gump" won for
Best
Editing over "Hoop Dreams," a movie culled from over 300 hours of footage.
"Hoop" is riveting for every minute while "Gump" drags on and on with
superfluous scene after superfluous scene.  Could that "Forrest running
back
and forth across the US" have possibly been milked any longer?  This lasts
15 minutes with no reason except to portray the passage of
time.And as for Forrest's "soul mate," Jenny, this little slut is a despicable
character who abuses Forrest throughout his entire life, both mentally and
emotionally, and shows him nothing but disrespect.  This character does
not
deserve our sympathy, she deserves our contempt."Forrest Gump" is woefully, abominably bad.  Its main gimmick is cute the
first time you see the movie, but after one viewing the entire facade
comes
crashing down to reveal a redundant plot, mediocre acting (Hanks is an
Oscar-caliber actor, but not for this dreck; he was better in both "Cast
Away" and "Saving Private Ryan") and inept editing.In my opinion, this stands as the least deserving of all Best Picture
Oscar
winners.Rating: 2/10

******
1 June 2007
10
Forrest Gump is a heartwarming tale about a very different man who just
wanted to fit in.Seeing his story throughout the movie made me think
"wow,this guy was some guy".Forrest Gump was marvelously played by Tom
Hanks who i'd only ever seen (well,heard his voice) in Toy Story.I
thought it was funny that he was telling random people at the bus stop
his life story.I'm glad that they didn't ignore him.Robert Zemecks
directed this movie very well because it made perfect sense.I loved
Forrest's confidence that he could do anything if he tried.It was such
a lovely story,it made me cry,and i'm not that emotional when it comes
to movies.The supporting cast was great as was the set design and the
picture.Forrest Gump is fantastic and remember,life is like a box of
chocolates because it's true,you don't ever know what you'll get.Thanks
for that phrase Forrest.10/10

******
23 March 1999
3

How did this ripoff of "Being There" ever get to be so loved?  People say
it's proof that a decent, honest man can succeed despite lack of
intelligence.  They're wrong.  The movie is proof that luck is everything:
hope your friend invests all your money in Apple and not Atari; hope your
shrimp boat is the only one out at sea when a storm breaks; hope that you
don't die of shock when you're luckily shot in the buttocks and not in the
back; hope you don't get AIDS from your wife.  This movie is also
politically reactionary -- all who rebel against societal convention lose
their legs, do drugs, beat their girlfriends, or die young.  In addition,
the product placement in this film (Nike and Dr. Pepper) is shameless.  An
emotionally manipulative film that is very, very empty.

******
10 November 2000
1

I have to whole-heartedly agree with people who complained about the hype.
I guess this movie was made to pander to the baby-boomers.  Why people
insist that Tom Hanks is a great actor is beyond me.  Don't get me wrong,
I
thought he was brilliant on "Bosom Buddies," I just wish he would return
to
the small screen.  I remember Bill Maher on "Politically Incorrect"
remarking on Mr. Hanks winning the Best Actor award for this movie.  He
basically asked how hard was it to portray an idiot?  I suppose Tom
Servo's
diatribe on MST3k accurately summarizes my opinion of this flick.
Something
like, "Oh, so life is like a box of chocolates?  Oh yeah?  Well, I say
life
is like a c*** sandwich; the more bread you have, the less c*** you have
to
take!"  If only there was more bread in this movie!

******
24 April 2006
1
how could the academy be so out of touch with the American public that
they believe this vile, uninspired piece of drivel, created solely to
appeal to the lowest common denominators stupid younger brother, was
worthy of not just one, but six Oscars? these were not insignificant
awards that this film took home either. how does best director, best
actor, best editor, best screenplay, and, oh, i don't know, best
picture!!!! are you kidding me? what, the student films from miss
o'malley's sixth grade class weren't allowed to contend? of course,
they would have been too high-brow for the viewers who are allowed to
speak for the masses.

******
25 July 2002
1
I recently saw this film again and was interested to see whether it had
improved with time or I had mellowed in my opinion of it. Not a chance!
The film looks even more tritely prelapsarian than ever. Basically the
film is an unashamedly reactionary piece of brain candy floss, sickly
and insubstantial. In this films universe Simplicity = Good Social change = Bad. Agents of
social change = very bad and therefore they must contract AIDS. If it
wasn't so nauseating it would be funny. Unfortunately, the Academy took it seriously and it picked up Oscars,
when they should have booed it off the screen. Cynically sickly and
morally bankrupt its a disgrace.Incidentally Jamie Russell in his book "Vietnam War Movies" wrote;
"Forrest Gump is Hollywood at its most horrendous...Whats most worrying
is that the British Board of Film Classification saw fit to give this
evil little film a U certificate. How can we protect our children
against such insidious brainwashing" How accurate an insight.

******
15 November 2006
1
This is one of the worst movies of all time. It is nothing more than an
expensive, intricate jigsaw puzzle and none of the characters have
redeeming value with the possible exception of Forrest's mother. His
love interest Jenny is a vile human being and at no time did I want
Forrest to end up with her. The off putting message IS in fact that you
can be an idiot and be successful, and in fact suggests that it might
be better to be so. The idea that skills that many people find so
difficult to master all come so easily to a simpleton like Forrest is
offensive. Its saving grace is that the book is even worse. I don't
understand what people love about this movie, which is vastly
overrated.

******
6 April 1999
1

This is truly one of the worst movies ever made. Forrest
Gump
just happens to be at every event which was important for
US
history the last 30 years. Maybe he was responsible for
the
assassination of President Kennedy and Dr Martin Luther
King.
When they showed the first landing on the moon I expected him to show up
and
shake hands with Neill Armstrong.Moral of the film: act stupid and you will become the richest
bore in the world, act normal and you will be punished in every possible
way.Furthermore don't you think that Mr Gump is an alien from outer space?
Nobody knows his father, his behaviour is robotic and super-human at the
same time and Forrest jr will conquer the world. A kind of one man
"Invasion
of the Body-Snatchers".

******
26 March 2001
1

Quite simply, this is one of the most despicable, offensive films ever made.
It's central message is that if you shut up, do what you're told and never
question anything, you will be rewarded. If you speak up for something you
believe in, and it goes against authority, YOU WILL BE PUNISHED! (Like Robin
Wright's character, who dies of AIDS). 
That this won Best Picture over the innovative Pulp Fiction is appalling
(but then again, let's not forget that Titanic beat out LA Confidential, and
The Truman Show wasn't even nominated) It deserves none of the accolades it
recieved, and as for Tom Hanks' performance, well let's just say that any
sitcom-level actor can play retarded with ease. A bad, bad, bad, bad film,
and in the nastiest way possible.

******
28 August 2006
1
This movie suffers from a bad case of "schizophrenia". The movie starts
out as a story about a boy who overcomes a handicap with a strong
single mother (played by Sally Field). The movie could have been then a
"low key" version of Radio and made a statement about the obstacles one
has to overcome. Instead, Zemeckis wanted to make a statement about
American history from the 60s to the 80s. The result was a judgmental
indictment without regard for the "complexities" involved. For example,
we are supposed to think that Forrest Gump is so "dimwitted" that he
doesn't care about civil rights, when a young black woman is trying to
attend class. Is Zemeckis mocking civil rights? Then there is something
about having to pee while shaking hands with LBJ. I guess some people
find this funny, but it just appeared childish to me. Then, Gump goes
off to Vietnam, leaving his "flaky", "irresponsible" girlfriend behind.
You get tired easily of his girlfriend being portrayed as an
irresponsible child. When he returns from 'Nam, he gets in a fight with
some pretentious hippy, who is supposed to represent the entire
anti-War movement. This really irritated me seeing all the complex
issues of the 60s being used to subjectively attack the anti-war
movement. After this slight, the movie moves on to a new story. Now
Forrest is running for no reason. In the movie "Convoy", where this
idea was borrowed from (switching from truckers to runners), there
seemed to be a little bit of a political message. Forrest is just
running for no rhyme or reason. By the end of the movie, I am just
annoyed by his talk about a box of chocolate. This movie was extremely
annoying, patronizing, and ignorant. Forrest Gump might of been a
better, more honest movie, if Zemeckis stuck to the storyline, instead
of pursuing a right-wing political agenda.

******
28 July 2002
1

Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) has an IQ of 75 and plays a role in many aspects
of
American history, everything from Elvis to Watergate to the smiley face to
the integration of the University of Alabama.  The message of the movie is
that if you are stupid and you always do as you are told, then great things
will just fall into your lap.  The movie is beyond farfetched.  The movie
is
absolutely ridiculous and unbelievable.  The basic premise of the movie is
ludicrous.  There is no way to make it work.  This movie is a real insult
to
the intelligence of the viewer.  Tom Hanks is totally obnoxious in this
movie.  I never liked him anyway.The movie glorifies stupidity and treats us, the viewers, like we are
stupid
too.  When Forrest's mother says Forrest is named after General Nathan
Bedford Forrest, we see a flashback of General Forrest.  When Forrest talks
about Lieutenant Dan's (Gary Sinise) family, we see flashbacks of
Lieutenant
Dan's relatives.  I understand!  You don't have to show me!  The movie
begins and ends with a feather drifting around, as if we are too stupid to
get the message that Forrest drifts through his life aimlessly.  I get the
point!  I don't need to see an actual feather!The soundtrack is irritating.  The songs keep breaking into the movie in a
very annoying manner.  And they are so literal-minded!  When Forrest is
running, we get `Running on Empty.'  When Forrest goes home, we get `Sweet
Home Alabama.'  When Jenny (Robin Wright) walks out a door, we get `Don't
You Love Her As She's Walking Out the Door.'Forrest's mother (Sally Field) does something absolutely despicable to keep
Forrest in a school for which he is clearly not qualified.  Are we supposed
to admire Mrs. Gump for her devotion to her son?  I do NOT admire
her!The movie never even tries to explain how a person with an IQ of 75 somehow
manages to graduate from high school and college and join the military.
The
movie expects us to simply accept this fact without question.  And what
happened to Jenny's sisters?  The movie mentions them once and then
conveniently forgets all about them.The only good thing about this movie is Gary Sinise.  He plays a believable
character and gives a good performance.


******
20 June 2008
2
I think this movie (I haven't read book) seems to have an agenda. The
main character is mindless but works hard at everything, so he fits
into the American Way. Part of his mindlessness is a basically loving
nature. This movie is saying that as long as you pick a direction, work
hard, put the needs of others before yourself, and be persistent then
you will wind up ahead of the game. You will have a basis of wealth, a
home, and you won't have un-necessarily exposed yourself to diseases of
the mind or body.If, on the other hand, you have a mind and set out to change or improve
conditions in the world, you are a fool.That's what I get from this and I am somewhat offended because if there
is any credence to the philosophy that this movie advances, then I must
be the fool.If anyone sees where I am wrong in my interpretation of this story I
welcome comments, as I am very much in the beginning stages of
analyzing stories. This one got me in particular.Anyway, the agenda that I am referring to would be Conservatism.

******
18 September 2007
3
After becoming increasingly disenchanted throughout this seemingly
endless film, I began to wonder what the message, if any, was. It
appeared to me that the theme was that it didn't matter if you were an
idiot, things would work out fine so long as you are American and your
hearts is pure. Some time after seeing the movie I read extracts from
the original book which was clearly of more satirical intent. Forrest
Gump is a modern day Candide living out a pseudo-panglossian idyll
where everything works out for the best (in this best of all possible
worlds.) While the book clearly highlights the absurdity of this, the
movie takes a superficial view that illustrates the situations without
any apparent understanding of irony.

******
8 November 1999
5

The first time I saw Forrest Gump, I loved it. On the second time around, I
saw how terrible it actually is. There is not as much a plot as an idea.
It's like watching "Look who's talking", where the writers thought that
simply having a baby talk was plot enough to fill a hour and a half.You all know the premise of this movie. The life of a retarded man in 20th
century America. He does a lot of unusual things, which all turn out ok and
trigger key historical events. This is funny. Then the writers see that two
hours have passed, and have to conjure an ending. They kill off Forrest's
wife and have Forrest give a tearjerking speech like only Tom Hanks can.
This is uplifting. There. Now go home and feel good.Some of my friends saw the film as plain all-american propaganda. In my
opinion however, the film doesn't really take itself seriously enough to
just be a vehicle for the American dream. In fact, Forrest Gump could have
been a biting satire. As the audience is clearly supposed to laugh at
Forrest's improbable success, the film could be seen as a parody. Mostly all
the humour comes from the fact that the audience knows that the events are
the exact opposite of what would happen in reality. The filmmakers could
even have argued that recent history is so insane, that the events could as
well have been caused by someone like Mr. Gump. The movie, however, doesn't
have the guts to have lean to the right or left. Forrest's pivotal role in
history is treated as a mere light-hearted gimmick, omitting all the
possibilities for actual commentary.The film tries to have it both ways in many other scenes as well. Apparently
its not PC to bully Forrest, but on the other hand the audience is supposed
to laugh at his antics. Forrest as both a war hero and a peace advocate
exemplifies this problem. This isn't being ironic, impartial or open to
interpretation. Especially concerning the Vietnam war, the writers have
obviously not wanted to offend anyone, now matter how derivative it will
look. In the end, it only comes off as having nothing to say.

******
1 May 2004
2

I can't believe this insultingly stupid, trite, and flabby film was
nominated for any awards. The film is simply meaningless, having no
comprehensible point of view and unwilling to look one millimeter past the
surface of any of the events it attempts to depict. Something like this is
even more flatulent and offensive than action garbage like _ConAir_, which
at least doesn't pretend to have Something To Say.The popularity of this movie escapes me completely. I guess it makes people
feel good about themselves in some sick way: "My life is bad, but lookie -
this retarded man gets to interpret the highlights of American history and
popular culture for me!" Hanks, who I normally like, seems to have based his
performance on not blinking, or maybe he was just drugged (a rational
response to the uber Hallmark Card that passes for a screenplay.) Wretched
garbage appropriate for people scared of thinking.

******
5 April 2002
2
I'm an action movie guy. Primarily, I like it when things blow up. So
to begin with, "Forrest Gump" was not going to be my kind of movie. But
I like an intelligent film that has something to say, and I think I
"get it" about this film. It's a journey through modern American
history, showing a window into mainstream culture from the plight of
the main character.Unfortunately, the film is incredibly sappy. Everybody who can possibly
get hurt gets hurt. If it's a sunny day, it will start raining in this
film. Then we get to linger on this melancholy in endless melodramatic
scenes. Meanwhile Forrest, who is stupid as a stump (unlike brilliant
actor Tom Hanks who plays him) is an anti-hero who lets others push him
around. There's no deep theme, and the movie is sub-intellectual.These things built up into what is essentially an amateur script
surrounded by a blockbuster hype and star cast. "Forrest Gump" is
basically a soap opera, and I do mean to conjure images of daytime TV
at its worst.Who should see this film:-- Soap opera fans-- Everybody else, run for the hills -- even if you do havean artistic film school depthI'll give "Forrest Gump" a 2 out of 10, because it at least maintained
a consistent tone throughout. If you don't like the first ten minutes,
stop watching.

******
5 September 2005
6
*** Momma used to say if you haven't seen this movie, skip the second
paragraph, 'cause it's got some of 'dem magic spoilers *** Maybe my inner cynic finally got to me. I've seen "Forrest Gump" about
seven or eight times altogether, and these last few viewing experiences
left me with a bitter taste in my mouth.A few years ago I praised this film for being delightful, warm,
inspiring, epic, etc. It was one of my top-ten favorite films. I loved
it.I watched it again last night and was struck by how smug, contrived and
self-conscious it is. It's almost sickeningly sweet - it's a fantasy
(as I've always said) and all the characters live their lives to suit
the story. I loved the poetic justice before - now it's kind of
insulting.The character of Jenny is, story-wise, a nice addition because all
fairy tales have the hero and his girl. The setup is firm because it
presents her as the only girl of Forrest's life, the one person who
accepts him for who he is - as she grows up and changes he's always
there for her. The ending is a nice full circle. But the fact that the
film kills her off is too righteous. It's like, "Hey, she did the sex,
she did the drugs - SHE DIES! Who cares if she had a change of heart?
She's a filthy skank!" Forrest's "Momma" is a right-wing Christian
fanatical who has an obsessive hold over Forrest. She's a bit like the
mother in "Bubble Boy," except in this films she's presented as a hero.And finally we come to Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump. Last year I thought
it was one of the all-time best performances in any film. Now, I can
barely stand listening to him.It's all so smug and annoyingly sweet. "Would you like a choc'-uh-lut?"
You feel like slapping the guy. Then taking his darn "walkin' shoes"
and throwing them in a pool of gasoline and lighting them on fire.
Along with his box of chocolates.Forrest's smug attitude is a bit too self-knowing for my tastes. It's
like he's saying a big screw-you to all the people who disagree. He's
Uncle Sam's Favorite American - the dumb guy who was too stoo-pid to
say no to the government, and in return was awarded with millions of
dollars and a happy, content life. All the Vietnam protesters were
pigs, praise America.As far as "retard" characters go, Dustin Hoffman is still my favorite.
Leonardo DiCaprio in "What's Eating Gilbert Grape?" is really good,
too. But Hanks' performance is just a bit too self-confident and
mugging - it's too damn innocent and naive.As I said, this used to be one of my very favorite movies. I loved it.
It used to move me to tears at times. (Well, almost, anyway.) But I
guess I've given my inner cynic too much room to grow - now I see it as
a smug, annoying little journey through America's pop culture - with a
message at its core that says, "Don't mess with America - or you'll get
the Gump." America has enough blind love going already.

******
23 September 2002
2

You've got to give it to the makers of this film, they certainly tried
every
trick in the book to wheedle reactions from viewers.  A person with a
disability who manages to triumph through the most extreme and traumatic
situations thrown at him.  Was this meant to be some sort of metaphor for
"the American Dream", whereby citizens by rights should triumph through
whatever adversity is thrown their way, coming out the other side richer
and
stronger?  Give me a break - or at least, show it to me in an intelligent,
thoughtful, non-manipulative way!The scenes with Forrest intercut into historic footage were quite nice,
though.

******
30 September 1999
2

The other nominees for Best Picture of 1994 were `Pulp Fiction', `Four
Weddings and a Funeral', `The Shawshank Redemption' and `Quiz Show'.  ANY
ONE of these would have been a deserving winner (my personal favourite was
probably `Quiz Show').  Yet, of course, the award went to `Forrest Gump'.  I
took this as a deep personal affront.  I took every undeserved success and
wreath of flowers laid at the door of this miserable film as a personal
affront.  It was a standing insult to my belief that `Forrest Gump' was just
too stupid to succeed for very long.  Ah, well.  Life imitates
art.Make no mistake: `Forrest Gump' is not just stupid but a hymn to stupidity,
an extended celebration of stupidity as a virtue.  Gump is as innocent as
they come and we're clearly meant to think that this is a good thing.  The
trouble is that Gump has purchased his sainthood too cheaply.  He does not,
for instance, display any real courage in the Vietnam War: he gives the
appearance of courage only because he's too dumb to work out what's going
on.  (If only a bomb had landed on his foot.  It would have knocked some of
that insufferable self-assurance out of him, at the very
least.)The film is just one big, long appeal to the Pope to have Forrest Gump
canonised, and is about as bearable as any such appeal - and, as is so often
the case, the subject of this appeal is someone you wouldn't want to spend
five minutes with.`Forrest Gump' is one hundred and forty-two minutes long.

******
24 May 2007
1
It really isn't a good sign when a film has you reaching for the sick
bag after only a few minutes.This film features one of Tom Hanks's most insufferable performances,
as the eponymous simpleton who embarks on an odyssey across America (
and Vietnam - what did they do to deserve such a fate?). The scene in
which Forrest's mother dies inadvertently provided some comic relief
after interminable scenes of Gump running across America, meeting
Presidents, and maintaining a frankly creepy crush on childhood
"sweetheart" Jenny.This nauseating piece of reactionary twaddle is something the CIA
should consider as a means of extracting information from anyone they
saw fit. I'd be screaming for mercy after 10 minutes.And what were the Academy smoking when they gave Hanks an Oscar for
this turd? Avoid at all costs - but if you really must watch it a
bottle of whisky may numb your senses into submission enough to allow a
viewing.

******
24 December 2005
1
Let's go over the two main ideas at the root of this story, shall we?1) If you do everything you're told for your whole life, including
fighting in a war that shouldn't have occurred, you will be rewarded
with fame and fortune.2) If you question your government, you will begin a slide down a
slippery slope that will lead inevitably to drug abuse, prostitution
and attempts at suicide.In this contemporary parable, financial success is inextricably linked
to moral virtue -- with the obvious corollary that the poor are immoral
and unvirtuous. The film says as much with its portrayal of Lieutenant
Dan: he is "living off the state," and, as a result, he is a
self-loathing, ineffectual alcoholic. Curse that welfare state. When he
becomes an entrepreneur on the other hand his life turns around and he
"makes his peace with God." Moral virtue, incidentally, is defined as
unquestioning loyalty to a higher power, be it America or God -- in
fact, the two are pretty much the same thing.And they say Hollywood is too liberal.

******
3 January 2000
5

The thing that really spoils my enjoyment of this film is the way history is
re-written.Not ancient history, but history which I lived through. In real-life the
anti-war protesters were venting their disapproval of what they earnestly
felt was an immoral war. They took a lot of knocks from the powers that be
for their troubles as well.This movie depicts them as shallow, selfish, manipulative, power-driven, and
even violent people (there's irony for you!) who were "Unamerican" in every
sense of the word.The odious message of this movie is that ignorance is bliss. Don't think
about things and everything will work out nicely and you will be happy. Well
at least you'll get rich - which in most American movies is close
enough.It's enough to make a person gag.Oh, and the fact it beat Pulp Fiction and Shawshank Redemption to the best
picture Oscar doesn't help either.

******
18 April 2010
3
There are two kinds of people in the world, my friend. Those who dig
Forrest Gump, and those who don't. I don't. If "Forrest Gump" is truly
viewed as some kind of inspirational cinematic experience, then America
is in a lot of trouble. Forrest Gump is no masterpiece of cinema, not
even by a long-shot. It is largely a formulated overly sentimental
contrivance that simply plays too well into American saccharine tastes,
mostly pop melodrama for the sake of pop melodrama. This was obviously
made for the same audience that likes "Sleepless in Seattle" and "Lucky
You".Certainly, I don't have a problem with the idea of a feeble-minded main
character from which to tell a story. ("Rain Man", a similar idea, is a
far superior story to and much more real than the silliness of "Gump".)
I will concede Hanks' portrayal of Forrest is no less than brilliant,
and he was deserving of the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1994. But
was this film really deserving of Best Picture, Best Director, and Best
Writing? Is this film really in the same league as "Schindler's List",
"Ghandhi", "The Hurt Locker", and "Platoon"? I don't think so. A
contrived stooge, a late 20th century throw-back to Lenny of "Of Mice
and Men" ("Tell me about the rabbits, George"), enmeshed in a series of
sentimentalized vignettes is nothing more than contrived farce. Does
Gump represent the American ideal or fictionalized empty-headed-ness?
Forrest Gump only mirrors American's insatiable appetite for the overly
sentimental. Instead of telling a true human story, such as "Rain Man",
about the struggles of a man verging on feeble-mindedness, the
filmmakers decided to sentimentalize him and put him into the most
ridiculous and unbelievable of situations. Because of the fantastical
nature of the entire story, I think "Gump" does a disservice to those
with intellectual disabilities, although I will admit it does so
inadvertently. "Rain Man" I think achieves quite the opposite.So many of the scenes in this movie made no sense. In the opening
sequence when young Forrest's legs are in braces and, inspired by the
"girl next door", he begins running down a Midwest dirt road, and his
braces magically come off. Oh brother. Only Hollywood could imagine
something that rings of a bad "Saturday Evening Post" illustration from
the 1950's. Not even Norman Rockwell would have painted something quite
so contrived. Of course the "running theme" will recur toward the end
of the the film. Later, despite his feeble-mindedness, he's drafted
into the army where he puts his rifle together faster and better than
anyone in training. He's a feeble-minded genius. Maybe an idiot-savant?During the course of much of the film, Gump ends up involved in the
most unlikely of situations. He plays football under a legendary
college coach, goes to Vietnam, wins a congressional medal, meets John
F Kennedy, becomes a ping-pong champion, meets John Lennon, informs on
the Watergate burglars, and ends up investing his ping-pong winnings
into the Apple Computer company. And then goes on a pointless "run"
where all these people run after him. Or maybe this last part is
realistic. Not about Forrest running but that people would follow.
Obviously everybody followed Gump to the box office. And then to the
Academy Awards. It's a wonder the filmmakers didn't have him take the
next logical step and have him run for president. Raymond Babbitt (the
autistic character from "Rain Man" played by Dustin Hoffman) could be
his running mate.The only saving grace of the film is some of the Vietnam sequences, and
his relationship with Lut. Dan played by Gary Sinese, who is the other
standout talent of the film. Gump's tour of duty and his relationship
with Dan were far more substantive than all the rest of the movie put
together. I think it would have been far more interesting and
insightful if the story was about a feeble-minded man forced to fight
in Vietnam rather than adding all the other asinine episodes that made
me say to myself, "Oh come on..." And I liked aspects of Gump's
relationship with Dan, and I wished that had been more developed rather
than Gump popping up in high spots of American history. When Gump
reports the Watergate burglary, I just about lost my popcorn.The recurring theme of "Gump" is "life was like a box of chocolates.
You never know what you're gonna get.". As I have never liked most of
the candies in those boxes (I always end up with the slimy gooey ones),
I guess I am not the right viewer to appreciate the wonders of "Forrest
Gump". I typically avoid those boxes of candies just for that reason. I
want something that has a little more meat to it, a little more
realism, and a little more honesty. Not just gooey caramel. Whoever
wrote Forrest Gump was eating a box of these candies and decided to
make a movie about it. The problem with those box of chocolates is that
you know exactly what you're going to get and that's why I avoid them.

******
25 April 2009
1
Forrest Gump is a film that essentially decides to take a fictional
developmentally delayed Southerner and insert him into several decades
of history, having him interject with everything from George Wallace's
anti-integregation push to inspiring Elvis' famous dance moves. This is
simply a history trivializing gimmick, that is repeated dozens of times
throughout the film. Three things basically happen in the film; Forrest
does something amazing, he interjects in a historical event, but boy
does he miss Jenny. This is constantly repeated as well. The message;
that the wholesome, slow, never questioning Forrest is a hero while the
nonconformist free thinking Jenny becomes an aids infected slut is
problematic. The depiction of Forrest by Tom Hanks is one note and mind
numbingly sentimental. Forrest Gump is not so much a movie as a one
note concept stretched out to a bloated running time. Stupid is as
stupid does, and this movie certainly is stupid.

******
21 August 2005
3
Well, if you are in the mood for a hollow "feel good movie" this will
fit the bill. But if you are looking for substance, or a film that
makes you think, this film will leave you knowing you can never get the
time back you just spent watching this movie. The soundtrack probably
causes movie-goers to connect to the film more than the flimsy plot.At the time this film was released, Hanks was perhaps the most sought
after leading man. In some ways, it is as though the studios were on a
quest to turn him into his generation's Jimmy Stewart. Hanks is a solid
actor, and has acted in many excellent roles, but this is not one of
them. But this film certainly helped launch the "Bubba Gump Shrimp
Company Restaurant" found at tourist traps all across the United
States. In many ways, that is this film's legacy - made for theater
tourist looking for a vacation for the mind.

******
3 July 2009
1
The fact that a movie of this caliber is given such an overall high
rating reflects the disintegrating state of our civilization. Tom
Hanks, as always, is obnoxious and unlikeable. How this guy garners
such critical acclaim is totally baffling. It's almost like he didn't
cut his acting teeth on the immortal "Bosom Buddies." Oh, wait, he has
become a brash public believer in the impossible Oswald-acted-alone
fairy tale. That always helps careers....To anyone that has a loved one with development difficulties, or has
worked with handicapped people, Forest Gump is a pathetic and
unrealistic caricature. Hanks's voice for the character is grating and
unlike any I've ever heard, in the south or from any developmentally
delayed individual. What kind of ridiculous accent is that? Even Rosie
O'Donnell's laughable performance as a mentally challenged person was
more believable than Hanks.The plot is beyond preposterous. All those famous people, all the
crucial events of the times (at least by Hollywood historical
standards), and this one very challenged guy just happens to be in the
right place at the right time, over and over again. I love fantasy and
far fletched plots, but this is not remotely possible under any
circumstances.Again, those with personal life experiences in this area, know all too
well just how horribly the handicapped and developmentally delayed are
treated by all too many "good" and "upright" citizens. Gump seemed to
avoid most of that, when he wasn't altering history. This film makes a
mockery of those whose real disabilities make every day a real
challenge. It's typical Hollywood, but even worse than usual. Maybe
with another actor in the lead, who could give even a somewhat
acceptable performance, this film might have been better.

******
19 June 2010
1
This movie, nothing more than a cheesy scenes needlessly thrown
together, truly has no heart or point to it, and is among the worst
that I have seen. It attempts to do everything without focusing its
attempts. Just like the way that a person who tries to multitask only
does a semi-good job on either task, this movie does no good job at
anything. If the movie were sped up, it would seem like a parody of
Hollywood films. I am honestly shocked that anyone enjoyed this film.
Not only did the Oscars like it, they liked it more than "The Shawshank
Redemption" and "Pulp Fiction", both among the best movies of all
time,and both released in the same year.

******
22 September 2001
1

On the plus side, I think I saw this movie for free, or at the most paid $1
for admittance when I was in college and it was shown in the campus
theater.
On the negative side is everything else, most notably the movie's lack of
empathy for any of its character.  Every character, not just Gump, is
walking through this movie with no goal, no destination, and no clue, as to
what the other characters are doing.  Someone off-screen must've just
shouted "move" over and over again, and then filmed the result.  Gump goes
here.  Gump goes there.  Sally Field says this.  Sally Field dies.  And so
on.  The reasons behind the historical footage inserts is not to prove it
can be done but to distract one from realizing how badly the rest of the
film had come together up until the inserts.Anyone who cheers for this movie must also resemble a box of chocolates -
flat, consisting of cardboard, and soon empty of their contents.


******
20 May 2004
1

Spoiler Oooh! The drama! The tragedy! The pointlessness.Forest Gump is the inane story of an insipid person with the usual
Hollywood slant. A brain-dead person somehow shapes the course of
history and we are supposed to believe it.The drama is over the top and forced. Are we really supposed to cry
when his girlfriend dies during the early AIDS years? "I caught a
virus" she says. Come now now, at that time most of the infected people
were promiscuous homosexual men.And in the end we find out that the brain-damaged Gump is wiser than
nearly everybody else. This one is so bad it must have Tom Hanks in it.


******
11 August 2002
1

First off let me be fair about the movie...nice special effects. Now with
that said sit back and let me rip the hell out of this horrible movie. I
personally think Paramount and Robert Zemekis were handing out their own
batch of Jim Jones Kool Aid at every theater in America when this was out.From start to finish I dont think I have ever seen a movie (I say movie,
because this is not a film) that is more predictable, melo-dramatic, or
sterotypicable. How in the world this dreck won best picture is beyond me.
I
personally believe the Academy was doing Speilberg a favor and awarded his
buddy Zemekis for making an overblown bad film. Lets face it if this movie
only grossed 60 million it would have been cosidered a failure and would
have won best special effects and thats IT!!! In my opinion this is Ishtar
part 2, without Isabelle Adjani. This movie was a forshadow of things to
come from Zemekis. Contact, Cast Away, What lies Beneath; although better
films than Forrest Gump just proves Zemekis has sold his soul to the BIG
HOLLYWOOD garbage machine. Come back Bob, you were once a promising
director. 

******
27 December 2014
4
Conventional wisdom back in 1994 stated that one must either be a huge
fan of Oscar nominee Pulp Fiction (which purportedly signified the new
cinema) or of its polar opposite, Oscar winner Forrest Gump (which
signified old school film). Truthfully, I am a fan of neither film and
of the Best Picture nominees for that year, I would most assuredly have
picked The Shawshank Redemption over both without hesitation.Forrest Gump is a simple story about a simple man - expanded over an
arrogant nearly 3 hour running time. A Southern man of low I.Q., whose
good intentions and well-meaning heart allow him to triumph over the
obstacles and adversities life throws his way. The film opens with
Forrest sitting on a park bench regaling others with his exploits, such
as his outrunning bullies and becoming a football hero, his tour in
Vietnam which led to a successful shrimping business and his enduring
love for his childhood friend, Jenny.Director Robert Zemeckis can be a great director and the first hour of
Forrest Gump is very good. It establishes a tone of bemused whimsy that
the material requires. Unfortunately, bemused whimsy is a hard tone to
maintain, especially when your film has such a slight plot, a running
time that would be a strain with the best material, and a central
character that is, let's face it, not particularly fascinating. By the
midway section, the film starts to stumble and then completely implodes
right around the time that Forrest starts running back and forth from
coast to coast for no apparent reason.For comedic measure and a degree of relevance, the story tries to
shoehorn Forrest in with historic figures, fads and events, some of
which work well and some not at all. The tie-in with Watergate and
Forrest showing his wound to Nixon are amusing, but his scene on the
National Mall at an anti-war protest where the microphone cuts out so
the crowd can remain clueless that he is an imbecile is ridiculously
coy. And the sequence with John Lennon, where it is obvious the words
do not match the lip movements is downright embarrassing. The Oscar for
special effects here is a real stretch.Tom Hanks can be a great everyman actor (like James Stewart). He can
also be overrated and it is to his misfortune that the two films for
which he won back to back Oscars are two of his most overrated efforts.
One can see politically in Oscar circles why he would win for
Philadelphia, but the win for Forrest Gump the next year is most
puzzling. Forrest has very little range emotionally or intellectually,
and he largely reacts to everything the same way.Sally Field seems oddly miscast as Forrest's mother, who apparently
gifted her son with his low-rent fortune cookie advice. Gary Sinise
provides the film's only really great performance as Forrest's Vietnam
superior and later friend - providing some of the grit and emotion that
the remainder of the film lacks.In the pivotal role of Jenny - the girl who Forrest has loved since
childhood - Robin Wright is a complete wash-out. The film keeps
returning to her character, who has become an embittered drug addict
and it founders every time it does. Jenny may have her reasons for her
addictions, but she is often played as a shrewish selfish person, who
takes Forrest's help when convenient, and shuns him when she is
finished with him. Hanks and Wright have no chemistry together and
because of her shoddy treatment of Forrest, I cannot imagine anyone
rooting for them as a couple. A foolishly lengthy mid-film sequence
with Jenny on a ledge contemplating suicide actually had one witty
film-goer in my audience begging her to jump - I concur. Her final
moments in the film are especially absurd - as she once again shows up
to prey on Forrest's good will - this time announcing that she is dying
from some mystery illness which seems to be AIDS although the
filmmakers refuse to say and she wants Forrest to care for her son,
which she assures him is his (although we as an audience are not really
sure given the characters chronic dishonesty). This strange disease
seems to have been borrowed from Love Story, as Wright's only major
symptom seems to be that she gets more luminous and has better lighting
the closer to death she gets.The final hour of the film is near unendurable. The whimsy has been
lost and the events surrounding Forrest just seem to get sillier and
more pointless. As a character on which to hang a film, Forrest is
largely a slow-witted blank. He ends the film almost exactly as he
starts it. He has had no great epiphanies or insights or much in way of
growth - he has been largely a passive passenger riding the wave of
life. The film's meme that good-hearted people will always get what's
coming to them is beyond naive and a tad insulting - as there are many
good-hearted people who have the opposite happen. Ironically, we never
get to see the expressions or reactions of the people Forrest
victimizes with his tales, which may be intentional since they may have
run screaming from the park bench or just passed out in bored apathy.

******
18 October 2015
10
This movie was amazing. It reminds me of my rises and falls in my life
and just seeing how resilient Forrest Gump became was really inspiring.
He had so much to offer the world, even when no one saw his ability to
contribute to society. He did everything from leading a football team
to a championship, to being a war hero. Even through the tough times in
high school to the frantic relationship with Jenny, Forrest still
remained humble and resilient. Any anti-bullying campaign, in my
opinion, should use Forrest Gump as a prime example. Maybe even go as
far as showing the movie. The movie also shows what it truly means to
keep a promise. The promises that Forrest made to his mother, Bubba,
Jenny and Lieutenant Dan were all kept. His love, passion, drive and
spiritual understanding were all unconditional. What an amazing movie

******
15 October 2015
10
Since I first saw this film at the age of 8, Forrest Gump has always
been my favourite film. As a child this film was magical and Forrest
inspired me with his ability to run fast. The scene where he breaks
from his leg braces is iconic and highlights how well the movie matches
music to emotion. The Forrest Gump theme music by Alan Silvestri hits
the mark and truly captures the beauty of a feather moving in the wind.
The movie uses the theme of life being like a box of chocolates. You
never know what you're going to get. What the audience gets is top tier
cinema production on all levels. The director Robert Zemeckis delivers
a visually stunning film that shows so much of the American Dream. The
acting showcases Tom Hanks, Sally Field and Gary Sinise in their
elements and they bring such life and dimension to the characters as we
follow Forrest and his Mama across the decades. The movie tackles some
of the hard topics with grace and surprising wit, all the while being
respectful and quite informative of many historical moments without
getting caught up wasting too much time on any one moment. The film to
personally becomes one of understanding WHY exactly Forrest was able to
be so successful. Luck? Funny script? Are we to believe its like the
movie Being There where a man can succeed by the Mr magooing of his
ignorance and naivet. No. Forrest is successful because he is
trusting. He puts his faith in others and in return friends help him.
Sure a man of lesser intelligence can be swindled and taken advantage
of but the story says that a man who works hard, trusts his fellow man
and loves his mama and his god will succeed in America. The American
Dream.

******
12 October 2015
10
The movie Forrest Gump is about a boy who suffers from mental
retardation. He also suffers with scoliosis and has to wear knee
braces. The movie tells a story about his life and his accomplishments.
He suffers bullying from the people in town and the kids in school. He
grows up and proves a lot of people wrong. The story takes place in a
small town called Greensboro, Alabama. Tom Hanks portrays the character
Forrest Gump. This movie won eight Oscars, one of them being Best Actor
in Leading Role. Tom Hanks won the award in 1995. He did a very good
job of showing Forrest Gump without mocking his disability. We meet
Forrest's character at bus stop talking to people on the bench about
his life accomplishments. After that, the story starts with Forrest'
first day on the bus. This is when Forrest first experiences the other
kids bullying. Until he meets young Jenny, who lets him sit beside her
on the bus. Young Jenny is played by Hanna Hall. Jenny becomes his best
friend and doesn't look at his disability as a difference. Forrest and
Jenny grow up together and spend all their time together. Jenny has an
abusive and drunk father. Older Jenny is played by Robin Wright.
Forrest gets many opportunities, he is asked to play football in
college. You also see many history events and how innocent Forrest's
eyes are to the world. The movie is told in the 1970s, a lot of
movements happened in the seventies. The movie shows both Forrest's
experiences and Jenny's life, vastly different. Jenny went through the
hippie movement, with drugs and peace. Overall the film Forrest Gump is
a great movie. It's definitely a movie you could re watch and still
enjoy it as much as the first time.

******
11 December 2012
9
*****WARNING: THIS REVIEW MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS**** Adapted from the
novel of the same name by Winston Groom, "Forrest Gump" is unlike any
movie I've ever seen. For the duration of its two-hour run, it enchants
and moves, amazes and inspires, seamlessly blending comedy and drama,
history and fantasy, threading its spellbinding yarn against the
backdrop of some of the defining events in modern American history."Forrest Gump" is about Forrest Gump, an everyman from Alabama. While
Forrest is none too bright, he can run like the wind, which secures him
a scholarship to the University of Alabama. As the film continues, he
becomes a footballer, a soldier, a ping-pong champion, a folk hero and
a multi-millionaire. He meets Elvis Presley and JFK; exposes the
Watergate Scandal; saves lives in the Vietnam War; runs across the
United States; becomes a household name as a highly successful
shrimping boat captain; makes the cover of Forbes magazine; and
inspires John Lennon's iconic record "Imagine." And yet, in spite of
all these events, the defining moments in Forrest's life are those he
shares with Jenny, his childhood sweetheart, who flits in and out of
his life as she goes on a downward spiral trying to come to terms with
being a survival of physical and sexual abuse by her father when she
was a child.It is from these tender and real moments between Forrest and Jenny that
the film finds it emotional core. Their relationship develops over the
years and ultimately leads to them marrying and having a son together.
But even then, Jenny's traumatic past comes back to haunt her, as the
years of self-destructive behaviour that it triggered led to her
becoming ill with an unknown virus (possibly HIV/AIDS) that tragically
claims her life towards the end of the movie. "Forrest Gump" is very much a take it or leave it film. It could be
viewed as one-dimensional, optimist bilge, about an idiot meandering
aimlessly through life, merely getting lucky. Reading between the
lines, though, you find a masterpiece, careening between sadness and
joy, pain and triumph. Robert Zemeckis' direction is almost flawless;
he renders "Forrest Gump" with aesthetic quality and flair. It includes
soundtrack with contributions from various American artists and, of
course, Alan Silvestri, who composes a beautiful piano suite that is
magical in itself.Recognising technical and writing merit, the standard of acting in
"Forrest Gump" is high as to be almost off the scale. Tom Hanks's
performance as Forrest Gump accrued Oscar, Golden Globe and SAG awards
that he wholly deserved; he plays Forrest's naivety and vulnerability
well and his monologue at Jenny's grave was a tearjerker. Robin
Wright's portrayal of Jenny - a woman crying out for help - was tender
and real and Gary Sinise, playing Forrest's commanding officer in the
Army, Lt. Dan Taylor, who loses his legs after being wounded in combat,
is superb, flawlessly capturing Lt. Dan's wrath, melancholy and despair
and later his redemption and joy. There is no way to define "Forrest Gump" as a movie. It can only be
defined as art.

******
5 September 2012
10
Never wrote a review before but every time I watched Forrest Gump I got
the urge to do it.. This time I couldn't resist it and here I am
sharing a few lines with you folks :) FG is one of my favourite movies.
I think that if I had to choose a word to described this movie that
would be LIFE. Forrest shows me how simple, beautiful and basic life is
and how easy is to miss it and let it pass you by. The movie is very
detailed and keeps you hooked in until the end. Towards the end though
it touches you, puts a knott in your throat and even squeezes some
tears out of you. I am sure I have absolutely nothing new to add but I
wanted to show and share my appreciation for this wonderful and
brilliant movie. Beautiful, beautiful, beautiful ...

******
29 June 2010
9
"Mama always said that dyin' was a part of life. I sure wish it
wasn't."No matter what Tom Hanks does for the rest of his career, to me, he'll
always be Forrest Gump. I mean that as a compliment. His role here was
one of the best and most memorable that I've ever seen in a movie. I
can't imagine another actor who could have played this character, and
played him so well.Forrest's story will take you all across America, and beyond. You get
to see a large part of recent American history through his eyes. It's
extremely clever the way that Forrest's presence is weaved throughout
so many iconic events and places. The man meets Presidents, inspires
kings (of music), and lives the kind of life that most people would
never even dream of. And he takes everyone watching along with him.Forrest Gump is so beloved, because it's so charming and heartbreaking
and genuine. Even when it's at its most sentimental or sugary sweet,
it's grounded in the kind of genuine human emotion that makes great
movie experiences. You'll laugh and fight back tears, but you'll also
think. This is one of the few movies that everyone should see, and that
almost everyone will like. It's a classic in every sense of the word.

******
15 November 2013
10
Most people in the world may have a high IQ than Forrest Gump, but
almost nobody may live a life like him. When I first saw this movie 6
years ago, I enjoyed it as a comedy. Now when I watch it again, I see
the true meaning of life in it. Life is like a box of chocolates, you
never known what you'll get next. An individual may seem so small
compared with the whole society, and people may feel upset even
desperate when they are in trouble. Forrest Gump has set an example to
all of us, that only way to a happy and meaningful life is to love and
try to live it to the fullest. I love this film very much and every
time when I am upset with things in my life, I'll watch it again.

******
4 June 2013
9
Movie Critic Title: "Forrest Gump"By: Julian Castro"Forrest Gump" is a great movie that almost everybody that likes to
watch movies, has some day seen this film, and have thought it is a
great movie. I have seen recently this movie two times and in my entire
life I have seen it 5 or 6 times and every single time I see it, I
become more satisfied and proud that still good movies can be created.
This movie was directed by Robert Zemeckis, and its main actors are Tom
Hanks as Forrest Gump and Robin Wright as Jenny Curran, Forrest's love
throughout the entire movie. This film is a dramatic comedy because you
feel as if you were the character, so you acquaint with the protagonist
and you fell what he feels during the film. But also this movie has
very funny scenes that make you laugh and enjoy the movie much more. This movies takes places in various settings were Forrest Gump goes
throughout the film. The most important places are Greenbow, Alabama
which was his hometown, also Savannah, Georgia, Vietnam, New York City
and Washington D.C. These settings are great places to develop the plot
in the film. Forrest Gump is a person that has mental trouble; he has a
type of mental retardation. This disability doesn't stop him of doing
all of the accomplishments that he achieves throughout the story. What
Forrest does is that he follows what his heart wants so he does
anything humanly possible to achieve his goals. But Gump's most
important goal is to achieve the love of his life, Jenny. Forrest met
her since their childhood and since then Gump felt in love with her. So
throughout the whole story he tries to achieve his aim with her.In this, very well directed film; the actors did a great job making
their specific roles. For example the protagonist of the story Forrest
Gump (Tom Hanks) was a great actor in this film, because he never
overacted in any scene of the movie. Hanks is the perfect actor to do
the role of the main character because has a lot of experience in doing
a lot of films and most of them are loved by the public. So my personal
thought is that Tom Hanks was chosen to be the protagonist actor
because of his great quality in the art of acting. Also a great actress
was Robin Wright and she did the role of Jenny Curran. She did a great
job in her part and she also has the natural ability of being another
great main actress and does it flawlessly without overacting. Robert
Zemeckis (director) did a great decision by choosing those actors and
because of his awesome decision this movie turn out being a great
movie. "Forrest Gump", in general, it has very unique scenes. Personally, I
liked the beginning of the film because I thought it was a very unique
part, which Forrest starts telling some of his life experiences and
things that happened to him that had a big impact on him, to a woman
that was seated next to him in a bus. This is the only movie that I've
seen that it starts like this one. Also a very nice part in the film is
when Forrest was talking with Jenny about his experience in Vietnam,
and Jenny was paying close attention to what was Forrest saying to her.
This was an amazing part because Jenny told Forrest, after his
experiences, that she loved him. This was a very powerful part because
we see that Forrest felt great after those words.This movie is known for having many different moral and life lessons.
This movie tells us that people that have mental problems such as
Forrest Gump can succeed. The only limitation for you is you, this
means that I you want to achieve something no matter what, if you have
dedication and effort to achieve that something, you will reach that
goal. Also another moral lesson that this movie shows us is that war is
not needed to have an agreement. This movie tells us that war is bad
and it can affect many people's lives and families. Also the last
lesson that "Forrest Gump" taught us was that don't give up, what we
need to do is to try as hard as we can to pass through the obstacles
that life puts us in front. A clear example of this lesson is Forrest,
life was hard to him because he was handicapped but with some effort
and hard work he succeeded in everything he did. I think people that
watch this movie will see similar moral lesson, because the movie is
trying to teach us the lessons that I mentioned in the paragraph.This PG-13 film is a great movie that anybody that is above 13 years
old can watch. But I specially recommended it to people that failed in
life, so that this movies teaches them that they still have an
opportunity to stand up from that failure and learn from it. I would
not recommend this movie to people that don't have a open mind, because
they wont learn from their errors or from their mistakes, but generally
I recommended to almost everybody. Finally, this movie is a marvelous
piece of art, because it is wonderful movie to watch and every time you
see it you learn something new that will help throughout life or in
future real life situations.Scale of 1-10: 9.5Julian Castro is a 10th grader critic from Lincoln School. He is from
San Jose, Costa Rica and is 16 years old. This critic is made for a
film app elective class. By practicing and doing more critics he will
become a master in the critic area, that's why this exercise was
ordered by the professor to do.

******
28 May 2013
10
Forrest Gump is a great tale of a unintelligent man. Tom Hanks does an
great job in acting. He is truly awe inspiring. It is a story of
sacrifice, love, friendship and honor. Gary Sinise and Robin Wright do
great in their own supporting roles. The ending will bring a tear to
the most serious moviegoer. Cinematography, writing and sound are all
top notch. Director Robert Zemeckis does a great job with this film and
it shows. This film deserves great praise and love. It teaches life
lessons and is very moving to all. Anyone can find this movie wonderful
and moving. It is a magical film and deserves all the respect it has
been given. Anyone who is a film buff has to see this movie.

******
24 April 2013
10
There are movies and movies & there is Forrest Gump.- Movies that make you laugh, movies that make you ponder,movies that
may excite you, but only a few can make you cry. Forrest Gump does it
all. Boy, tears rolled down for the first time after watching a
movie(of course there are other movies that followed but surely none of
those were even close to this phenomenal motion picture). Not that I am
Hercules or Thor, but it takes immense poignance to make me cry. Talking about Robert Zemeckis, the man always had a peculiarity in his
direction but this is the one which stands tall among all. This story
wouldn't have been the same without him. He is the one who brought the
feel to this movie. Tom Hanks does not have Tom Cruise's face or Brad Pitt's body & so he
got to the best with what God has given him- SHEER ACTING PROWESS. In
early 90's he was still to establish himself among great names & thats
how he did it? Although he had already won an Oscar for philadelphia
but this movie was his official entry to the hearts of millions of
people across the globe. Its hard to imagine any other actor fit in
this role. His movies have always been like a box of chocolates- YOU
NEVER KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO COME & this one is a pure delight- a movie
that can make your day.Some of the finest dialogs, thrilling moments, funny instances,
touching storyline, insightful thoughts & a pinch of romance, this
movie offers you everything you are looking in a heartwarming feel-good
movie.Robin Wright's performance was a treat to watch and some breathtaking
chemistry with Tom Hanks made it even more delicious. Even the best in
the romance cannot match this one. "I may not be a smart man but I know
what love is" is one of my favorite lines in the movie. Stupidity has
never been so touchy before.Every single character contributed to this beautiful fable in bits &
pieces- Forrest, Jenny, Lt. Dan, Bubba, Forrest's Mama, Young Forrest &
Junior Forrest are some of the unforgettable ones. An extraordinary journey of an ordinary man & arguably one of the best
performances of all time by Tom Hanks- don't give a miss to this one.
It may change your perception about life.One hell of a movie & it will be close to my heart forever! what can I say more

******
12 June 2011
10
For anyone who grew up in the turbulent Sixties, "Forrest Gump"
delivers a clever blend of nostalgia mixed with a uniquely creative
view of history as experienced by a presumed to be simpleton. While Tom
Hanks' character recalls his life with a slow tangy drawl, he variously
entertains and educates a host of passengers waiting for the next bus
to their intended destination. Some ignore him, some show interest, one
even scorns Gump's tale of getting rich in the shrimping business, only
to depart before Forrest has a chance to pull out his copy of Fortune
Magazine. Life can be like that for those unwilling to listen and
learn, casting doubt instead of exploring the truth and keeping an open
mind.I got a kick out of Forrest's string of brushes with greatness - the
way he taught Elvis how to shake his hips, his unquestioning response
to LBJ's inquiry about his war injury, and the way his war time
experience inspired John Lennon to write 'Imagine'. There was also that
ingenious sequence in which he meets President Nixon, then
inadvertently tips off the Watergate scandal. However the most
understated and easiest reference to miss was the clever homage paid to
the 1969 film "Midnight Cowboy", when Forrest wheels Lieutenant Dan
(Gary Sinise) across busy city traffic, and is narrowly missed by a
taxi cab. Lt. Dan's response was "Hey, I'm walkin' here", just the way
Ratso Rizzo did in that earlier film. All that with the 'Everybody
Talking at Me' movie theme seamlessly woven in as so many songs of that
era were utilized with other aspects of the story.For Forrest Gump, life is not a pretentious path to wealth or fame, but
a never ending quest to learn and be a productive human being. Not to
mention finding one's own true love. For Forrest, life long friend
Jenny (Robin Wright) represents an unfulfilled ideal, one he accepts
into his heart while still a young schoolboy and nurturing that
relationship platonically throughout his adulthood. For her part, Jenny
represents a youthful quest for experiencing life to the fullest, only
to make a series of wrong choices that lead her to the brink of
suicide. It's fitting that Jenny eventually realizes what Forrest knew
all along, that they were made for each other even if outward
appearances seemed to dictate otherwise.I've seen this film only a couple times in the past, thinking it was
good, but only considering it for it's entertainment value. I guess one
of the benefits of getting older is the insight one gains with
experiencing life a day at a time and steady as she goes. My viewing of
the picture today gave me a greater appreciation for the subtleties
offered in the film, and leads me to believe the world would be a
better place if there were a little more of Forrest Gump in all of us.

******
11 June 2013
10
Wow. An incredible film. I watched many other movies of Tom Hanks, Now
i understand that i made a great mistake by not watching this movie
this long. This is such an epic. Terrific acting by Tom Hanks, dint
knew that he was this versatile. The film just creates a very good feel
inside you that even after watching it just hangs within your mind.
Gump is spontaneous with great talent even though he looks retarded.
Every scene in the movie drags our full attention into it, by the
spontaneous actions of Gump. The movie's BGM is also perfect and syncs
nicely with the scenes. Everything, everything is perfect for this
film. Such films are extremely rare. This should have been a multi
Oscar winner and indeed, it is. Watch it. No other words. Just watch
and feel.

******
20 March 2012
10
I really love this film and I have seen it many many times.It is extremely moving and powerful which is exactly what a film (of
this genre) should be. If you want to watch a comedy, go watch a
comedy, nobody is denying that this is not a romantic-comedy full of
belly laughs but it is a real tear jerker and makes you think and Tom
Hanks totally deservedly won an Oscar for being such an outstanding
actor. It is really a fantastic film, there are not enough ways for me
to express that. It makes you think and it touches you and it is *very*
hard for the film crew (actors,directors,cameraman etc) to be able to
achieve that but they have. I seriously don't understand how people can
be so critical and hate this. I do not (well hardly ever) watch a movie
expecting to critise it, that is not what movies are for. And *of
course* you are not going to like some of the characters because they
are not *meant* to be likable!! Thats just how some people are, a film
cannot portray everyone as sugary sweet and perfect. I understand that
not everybody will think it is fantastic but I do not understand the
negative comments, to me they seem silly because I think this is a
wonderful film, one of the best ever. The best thing about this film is
that it goes through lifes highs and lows just it does for real people.

******
31 March 2008
5
What I mean by this is, if a group of friends really wanted to rent it,
I wouldn't spend a 'veto' against the film with the group, but I
wouldn't pick it either. It's tolerable if you don't expect too much
from this 'box of chocolates'.I saw this when it came out, and I haven't seen it since.What struck me, was that when it was over, that people exiting the film
were completely silent. I don't know why the other people in the
theater were silent, but I was because the film really didn't deliver.
I felt it took me on a long trip to nowhere. Those in my group felt the
same way. But clearly, many other people feel otherwise.While somewhat watchable and pleasant enough to see unfold, and mildly
funny at times, expectations of 'something profound' are instead met
with a really shallow parade of clichs and stereotypes in a
narcissistic baby-boomer nostalgia orgy, the kind of thing that was
already wearing out it's welcome from 'the big chill' film &
'thirty-something' type TV shows.The viewer seems obligated to sit there and click on pop icons of the
baby boomer past, to make them get off the screen and move on to the
next. It's a very shallow parade through history.I'm not politically correct by any means, but it does seem like the
worst stereotype was pushed of the Vietnam vet, along with other
characters, I'm sure many people found some of these characters
degrading. A 'slow person' was kind of made fun of, without any real
purpose. Some parts of the movie, such as 'the run' was just
spontaneous, stupid and pointless.If I had no real expectations, I might not have found it as offensive.
But the presentation as though this was something culturally profound
when it's not left me flat.

******
12 April 2007
10
Having seen the movie and read the book, I feel it necessary to make an
observation. Even though the movie is based on the book, it is
remarkably different. In the book, Forrest goes into space; Bubba is
white and meets Forrest in college; Forrest runs as a candidate in the
senate; Forrest does not serve under Lieutenant Dan in the Army, but
meets him in hospital afterwards; Forrest's mother and Jenny do not die
(they do kick it in Gump & Co. though); and there is also Forrest's
wrestling career and his friendship with the orangutang Sue that should
be mentioned too. The book is a fantastic piece of literature and
should be on every college syllabus everywhere. But if the film had
been taken directly from the book, I doubt it would have been so
successful. The film includes fantastic sequences (Forrest running and
influencing pop culture; Forrest directly influencing John Lennon) that
do not appear in the book. The way Forrest is tied into the last 40
years of American History is great, if a little convenient. I wonder
though, whether the sequel will follow Gump & Co. or whether they will
create another new monster.

******
12 September 2002
5

Yes, I watched in awe as Tom Hanks was digitally inserted into all the major
events of the second half of the twentieth century, but my already opened
jaw then went slack at the banality of the screenplay.Sorry, but "Life is like a box of chocolates" is not a philosophy for a
grownup. Or even a retard.I loved the opening shot, and was really wanting to like this film, but
Sally Field is embarrassing, ditto Tom Hanks. Gary Sinise is good, but Robin
Wright's character makes no sense.There IS no moral or philosophical coherence to this film ... it just allows
woolly thinkers around the world to project their own feel good mantras onto
it.I give it a 5 for technical achievement(I stand by for the usual tirade of illiterate and obscene abuse I get when
I dare to criticise a sacred cow.)

******
14 February 2010
10
I think of Forrest Gump (1994) directed by Robert Zemeckis as a fantasy
or a fairy tale set in the real world, and what a marvelous tale it is.
It's been 15 years since I saw the film for the first time with my 13-
years-old son. We were impressed, touched, and moved by it equally. We
laughed, we could not contain tears, and we lived together with the
hero, the childlike, naive, and innocent Forrest Gump, the most unusual
lead character you can think of. FG was a big hit when it was released,
and it went on to receive 6 Oscars including for The Best Picture,
Director, Best Actor, Best Visual Effects, and Best Screen Play. The
film's Oscar status has made it one of the controversial choices among
the film viewers. Some completely agree that FG deserved all its awards
and its love. The others, and quite few to that believe that the film
is totally overrated, sickly sweet, and it is nothing more than the
American propaganda of mediocrity. They believe that the film's main
idea is, follow the orders, do what you are told, and even if your
intellect is low or almost non-existent, with a little bit of luck, you
would achieve the success in your life and even would change the
history by simply being at the right place in the right time. How wrong
I believe they are. You can't think of Forrest Gump as a real person.
He is a fairy tale character, or rather the embodiment of a human with
no cynicism whatsoever, the candid, pure, innocent man who is not quick
or witty but who knows bad from good and right from wrong and through
whose eyes we see the historical events in the live of this country for
about thirty years of the last Century. Forrest may not be an
intellectual prodigy but he was led through life's hardships, by the
inner moral compass if you will and he knows the very simple truths
that he never misses - love and loyalty to his mother, his friends, the
girl he loves and his Country. The movie covers the look at America not only from Forrest's point of
view. Another look at alternative, rebellious, counterculture America
was very well presented through Jenny's life. Between them two, I
believe the film's creators were able to show the changing times and
changing face of this country. Technically and visually, the film is a
marvel. The best songs of the time that were used in the film
soundtrack are great and I don't mind them sound almost all the time
-the more the better. Tom Hanks had achieved the very difficult task.
His Forrest is simple but not laughable. He is a decent and very good
man. It is not easy to create such idealistic character and to make him
alive and sympathetic. There is not a single false note in Hanks'
performance, and he absolutely deserves the Oscar. When I rewatched the film recently, it touched me as deeply now as it
did 15 years ago, and this is for me the sign of not just good but a
great movie. And that's all I have to say about Forrest Gump.

******
9 October 2000
4

After all the hype surrounding this movie and its subsequent showing at
the
Oscars, i thought i knew enough about this movie to know it wasn't going
to
be my type of flick.
"..feel-good fodder for the dumbed down American masses...simple boy leads
extraordinary life in an over-simplified excursion thru post war
America....
over-hyped, over-rewarded.. lacking realism and believable
characters."that would have been some thing like the review i might have given prior
to
watching this film.having now seen the film ( thru a rather sad of anything else to do on
Saturday night)i would not change much about what i've already said about
the film except to say , if possible it was even worse than i
feared.Not once did i feel any pathos for Gump. his low IQ was mainly used as a
convenient plot device to explain all the unbelievable things that
happened
to him. Who can believe a guy who runs across America for 3 years just
because he felt like it all of a sudden? If all the things that happen to
Gump really happend to one person, that person would be a national
celebrity
if not an icon. Yet Gump seems to end the movie as a
relatively anonymous character. Some might say this adds to the charm of
the
story, that this guy could be involved in all these extraordinary
happenings
without really knowing the consequences of his actions and what was going
on
around him. I think this merely adds to the flawed nature of the
film.
SPOILER ALERT
Having said all of this, the movie maybe has one redeeming feature.My
girlfriend was in tears by the end when Jenny dies.
Maybe this works as a love story.  But i wouldnt watch this
film
just on that basis. In fact i won't ever watch this film again unless
someone offers me a serious amount of money, which lets face it is about
as
realistic as most of this movie!

******
14 January 2000
5

This movie is okay, but seriously folks, come on...... It's not that good.
It sure as hell didn't deserve the academy awards. Forrest Gump and
Titanic
are the two (in my opinion, and hey, that's all it is) most overrated
movies
ever made. Ever!!!

******
21 April 2009
10
Every so often there are movies that seemingly get released right at
the right time and subsequently become cultural phenomenons beyond
their creators' wildest dreams. These movies often largely retain that
success and esteem over the years (Gone with the Wind, Star Wars and
Jaws among others) or age poorly and get viewed as undeserving of their
huge success at the time (for instance, Independence Day). Although no
movie appeals to absolutely everyone's taste, Robert Zemeckis' Forrest
Gump certainly can be said to belong more in the former category.
Released in 1994 it raked in nearly seven hundred million dollars
worldwide, becoming the second biggest box office hit of '94 (after The
Lion King) and mopped the floor at that year's Academy Awards, winning
six trophies including Best Picture (although I prefer Pulp Fiction and
The Shawshank Redemption by the tiniest of margins, but this isn't
about those two), Director and Actor. It's a classic that, after first
seeing it in 1997 when I was 9, has stayed with me to this day. I'm
about to explain why.I don't think there's any need for me to talk about the story, so let
me begin with the cast ensemble Zemeckis assembled for this film. Sally
Field will always be Mrs. Gump to me, and she turns in a beautiful
performance as a strong woman with integrity who vehemently refuses to
think of her son as a retard and does her best to make sure he never
sees himself as one. An Oscar-nominated Gary Sinise is riveting as the
hard-bitten but scarred military man Lt. Dan who comes to learn from
Forrest the values of redemption and selflessness. Robin Wright Penn is
heartbreaking as Forrest's free-spirited but deeply troubled true love
whose life takes a very different route to Forrest's, and Mykelti
Williamson also gives a very touching turn as Bubba, the
African-American young man with a heart of gold who becomes Forrest's
best friend in Vietnam.But at the risk of sounding like a hyperbolic and dangerously obsessed
fanboy, I daresay the acting masterclass Tom Hanks puts forth here is
the finest display of acting I have ever witnessed. No other actor
before or since has made such a convincing transformation into the
heart, body and soul of another person as Hanks does here. Every
delayed or confused mannerism is spot-on, his Southern accent is
flawless and his every emotion letter-perfect. In the whole film,
particularly the grave scene towards the end, you look into his eyes
and you don't see Tom Hanks, you see Forrest Gump. Utter perfection.Many will say the storyline is a contrived, manipulative and even
conservative affair (and, admittedly, in some respects they may be
right), but they're oblivious to the darker subtext in Eric Roth's
screenplay and the many postmodern storytelling methods Zemeckis
deploys here. While we watch Forrest encounter so many historic people
and events, we see Jenny experience the negative side of '60s and '70s
counterculture as she protests the Vietnam War, embraces alcohol, drugs
and illicit sex and also for much of the film's duration Forrest's
impairments are exploited for laughs. When we analyze this side of the
story the film becomes much darker than it initially seems. The
unconventional methods Zemeckis uses in telling Forrest's story enhance
this  in his narration he discusses things that are yet to happen and
the placing of Tom Hanks into old footage of the real-life events gives
the movie a revisionist historical feel.Another huge plus is the soundtrack, containing most of the greatest
artists from the '50s to the early '80s.Forrest Gump's charm and appeal is timeless, and its artistic craft is
even better. It's a rollicking tapestry of American history from the
'50s to the '80s (both good and bad), driven by a powerhouse ensemble
cast and a brilliant crew working on a brilliantly constructed
screenplay filled with dozens of lines that have entered the lexicon,
all brought together by the love and passion of a genius director.
Forrest Gump is a classic that will look handsome in any DVD
collection, and is yet another movie that never leaves me feeling
amazed no matter how much older I get. A true classic.

******
18 February 2008
4
I remember hearing so much about this film and after a great year at
the box office that had seen the release of Pulp Fiction and the
underrated intersection, I thought that this film, from the director of
"Back to the future" would surely not fail to the disappoint.Boy was I wrong. Bob Gale must have thanked God that Zemeckis hired
someone else for this self-absorbed piece of tripe. The film resembles
the films of the eighties that were trying to show female empowerment
by having them think and act like men, that you watch now with a odd
sense of embarrassment. That's what this film is to the disabled. It
tries hard to seem so enlightened and yet most of the film's attitude
is mocking. The way he just happens to become a football hero, because
lets face it, in America if you're disabled then that's the only way to
get acceptance from Bullies. Firstly why would someone want acceptance
from Bullies and more importantly what the hell does that say about the
world that this is the message Zemeckis is sending out.The film then becomes a horrible mish-mash as Tom Hanks is badly
imposed in old film clips of chat shows and presidents, and the only
plus of the film comes in the shape of a great performance by Gary
Sinese that is spoilt by a cheesy ending where he forgives the
Vietnamese by falling for a Vietnamese woman (Kind of like a really
naff version of my name is earl.) If there is any justice in this world
then this will fall down the list and out of the 250, but unfortunately
the world is not just and if this film indicated that, then it would
have a higher ranking from me.

******
18 December 2006
10
I lived in China and in 1995 when I was still a high school student, I
watched this movie for its reputation  won several Oscar. Honestly I
felt bored when I was watching the movie that time because I could
hardly understand the meaning of the movie and could hardly feel its
beauty. At that time, only "The Terminator" kind of movies was able to
attract me. After I watched it for the second time now after 11 years,
I felt quite moved by almost all the elements this movie carries, the
story, quotes, special effect, Tom Hank's perfect portray of Forrest
Gump and most importantly, Forrest's deepest innate world. It's not
easy to conclude what kind of person Gump is and what are the meanings
and inspiration this fictitious character conveys to all the viewers.
But I do have the strongest inspiration from this movie, that is,
people can really get somewhere to achieve something not only because
they have a lot of good qualities, more importantly, from what we see
on Forrest Gump, because of not having a lot of bad qualities, or
innate weakness of human beings, or various interferences around
everybody. You can see all those bad qualities, weaknesses and
interferences from the lives of Lt. Dan and Jenny who are normal or
seemingly smart persons. On the contrary, Forrest is a person with low
IQ and was thought of by many people as moron. Yes, Forrest is not
smart and he knows it quite well. But for me, exactly because of his
being not so smart, he doesn't have those bad things that other normal
persons have that prevent them from achieving what Forrest was able to
achieve. Those people have too many thoughts sometimes, or too much
expectation, or too much depression in face of setbacks and all those
things are actually interferences to the normal people that prevent
them from staying focused for a long time. Now I should be looking at
myself and asking myself, what kind of interferences I should remove
from myself to really get somewhere. Thanks, Forrest Gump, thanks, this
fabulous movie that sheds so much light on me.

******
27 July 2002
3

To tell the truth,I don't agree with certain views expressed in this movie
and I thought the characters were stereotypical.I have to admit Tom Hanks is
a great actor but this is not his best movie.That honour goes to The Green
Mile.But Forrest Gump was an overrated movie because it won the best picture
oscar among excellent and intelligent movies like The Shawshank Redemption
and Pulp Fiction.I thought the movie dragged on and the only high point of
the movie was Tom Hanks' excellent portrayal
of Forrest Gump.You can watch this movie once,not more than
that.

******
4 June 2001
6
...but the USA can make you rich, healthy and famous with the minimum
trouble to make this a pure Hollywood movie. Should I say that this movie,
though cast is okay and directing conventional, is much overrated. This
movie seems made for a religious and puritan American audience, and it
received here in France a particularily mixed opinion. Script has to my mind
many flaws, music is irritating, and again I completely disapprove the
meaning... so watch it (once only) if you have time and make yourself an
opinion but don't think you are going to watch a wonder just because of its
6 academy awards! 6/10

******
29 July 2007
10
One of the best movies I have ever seen - It made me realize truth and
innocence still lives. The love he had was pure. I cried watching this
movie. Also the way in which the story goes -the political element in
it -very accurate and nice. Also every character in this film100/100 for the director and story writer - Not to mention the
extraordinary legend Tom Hanks....Tom Hanks, Robin Wright Penn, Gary
Sinise, Mykelti Williamson - every one has played their part
beautifully.If U haven't seen this movie - you are missing one of the greatest
movie ever made....

******
24 September 2007
10
I think that the best movies are those that you 'appreciate' or
understand after seeing it more than once. However, with 'forrest
gump', i fell in love with it after the first 15 minutes and knew it
would be in my top 10 straight away.It is so unique because of the character Forrest Gump himself, who has
a low IQ of only 75. Although he is 'mentally challenged', he finds
himself in historic and troublesome situations and like that he manages
to 'forrest gump' his way out of it and end up a hero or role model.
but the real beauty in this movie to me was his ability to simplify the
complexities of the world we live in and somehow do what some war
movies fail to do. show the importance of world peace or what love
movies can't deliver...the importance of love.I love that Forrest doesn't lose his innocence and purity throughout
the movie, or maybe he just can't but either way, this shows you don't
need to be evil or really intelligent to be recognised or successful.
Then again it is just a movie (and a very good one too). So maybe it
doesn't work like that in reality. what that simply means is that the
acting and story of this film was incredibly touching on a real level.
And in my definition that's what a good movie should be able to do.Every award the movie received was well deserved especially Tom Hanks.
Now that's an actor for ya. I love this movie and don't hesitate to
give it a 10.

******
19 March 2008
3
I know I'm not the only one who hated this movie. In fact I'm not even
the only person in my family that hated this movie, my mom and sister
did too, and I have met other people who hated this movie throughout
the years since it came out. Unfortunately, it hasn't been too many
people at all.Enough of that, I of course looked and heard why people seem to like
this movie so much. But I couldn't disagree more. The whole plot of the
movie is ridiculous -- how a mentally challenged person could go
through or cause all these historical events and fads. For example,
creating the smiley face, the s*** happens bumper sticker, catching the
people in the Watergate scandal, winning a medal of honor, becoming a
ping-pong champion (like an American can ever win that!), becoming an
all-American athlete for football, running across the country, falling
in love with a drug-addicted stripper (well i guess this one's
believable as he is mentally challenged), speaking out against the
Vietnam war after he won the medal of honor for it, etc. STUPID,
STUPID, STUPID. Running some more, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID. Then just
quitting for no apparent reason, STUPID, STUPID, STUPID!!!!OK, now the good parts of it. Yes there are some things I liked about
the movie. The cinematography was beautiful (and I'm a big fan of this
as I believe it helps set the tone of a movie), but it's useless
because there is nothing for it to enhance. I also liked Gary Sinise in
this; Lt. Dan is actually a cool character. And of course, the
soundtrack is awesome...Now only if we can mute everyone but Gary
Sinise and the music, I might be able to sit through this movie again.
One can only hope...Now back to the not so good to outright horrible. I never read the book
by Winston Groom so I can't say if they did the book justice or not,
and I really don't care. I mentioned how much I hated the basic premise
for this movie, but the dialog doesn't help either, with it's cheesy
axioms and pathetic southern accents (I used to live in TN, and I don't
remember the accents being that bad). Whatever, I can live with the
accents, but I prefer the exaggerated ones in "Fargo" (I thought they
sounded cool). Anyway, now onto the acting: Tom Hanks wasn't great in
this movie at all. How hard is it to play somebody that doesn't change
from one scene to the next. He walks, talks, and acts the same in every
scene of the movie. This had to have been Hanks' easiest performance to
play...and it won him his second Oscar. But of course this isn't the
first time that's happened. See Dustin Hoffman in "Rain Man," but at
least that was a good movie.I like a lot of Robert Zemeckis's films by the way to include "Who
Framed Roger Rabbit?" "Contact" and even "Beowulf," but this one, he
asked way too much for me to believe. I actually think the events of
"Star Wars 1-6" were more likely to have occurred than the events in
this movie. A lot has been said about his right wing political agenda;
I don't care; it's his movie, he can do what he wants with, but I don't
have to agree. Also that this movie is stereotypical to blacks. I
always wondered what African Americans thought about some of the stuff
in it as I don't think it was meant to be racist, but some of it kind
of came off like it. I guess it's up to them to decide.Now onto the last part of my comment which doesn't have anything to do
with why I like/dislike any part of the movie. I've been called a
Communist, un-American, and other worse things for hating this movie.
Really what is the point. I don't put other people down for not liking
movies I like. Everybody's is entitled to their own opinion.
Furthermore, I thought I lived in (and fought for) a country where I
can like or dislike whatever movie I want. I don't like movies because
everyone else does, and just because Hollywood or the media says that a
movie is good, doesn't mean that it is. In fact I tend to disagree with
Hollywood a lot. Anyway, isn't having to like something that's jammed
down my throat communist in itself? Anyway, if I had to choose between
becoming a communist and liking this movie, I would choose communism
without a second thought or regret.If I was rating this movie on how much I actually liked it, I would
give it a -infiniti just on the stupid screenplay alone. Too bad, it
took awhile for "The Shawshank Redemption" to get popular, or that
would have swept the Oscars that year.

******
16 March 2009
4
"Forrest Gump" is the ultimate fad movie. It came out big in 1994 and
created a cultural sensation. It was easy to get swept up in its
panorama of American cultural history, and all of the iconic imagery in
the film made it seem like it was saying something important. But all
these years later, this treacly piece of rubbish is nearly intolerable.The film is full of easy sentiment and false emotion. It depicts one
thing after another (the Kennedy assassination, Vietnam, Watergate, the
AIDS crisis) that trigger automatic emotional responses in the
audience, so that the filmmakers don't have to do any work of their own
to make the material effective. But underneath the lesson in American
history and the admittedly terrific soundtrack, I can't help but wonder
what point the movie tries to make. Are we to applaud Forrest for his
pluck and resiliency when the only reason for them is the fact that
he's too simple minded to understand the things that happen to him? Are
we supposed to emulate him? Is the message that we all make life too
complicated, and that we all need to buckle down to the only things
that really matter, like love of country, God and our dear ol' mama? If
so, gag.Tom Hanks is a winning presence in the film, and if anyone was going to
be able to carry this story along, I imagine he did just as good a job
as anyone else would have. But the only character worth watching as far
as I'm concerned is poor little Jenny, played valiantly by Robin Wright
Penn, who comes closer than anyone to playing an actual human being,
despite the film's tendency to chew her character up and spit her out.This movie is like a box of chocolates...too much of it and you'll be
sick.Grade: C-

******
15 May 2002
2

Absolutely awful concatenation of lachrymose sentimentality and right-wing
politics.  I hated this movie with an intensity that cannot be measured.
This was one of the most inward looking American movies to be seen in a
long
time.  Americans seem to believe that there is no other country outside
"Godzone"

******
23 May 2001
3

After all the hype and promotion, I was disappointed at the lack of
content.
The scenes of nudity and sexuality were unnecessary and made a film which
could have been great an embarrassment for those of us who prefer to stay
out of other folks' bedrooms.  The acting by Mr. Hanks, however, was
superb.
(The only reason I gave it a "3" instead of a "1")  He made me empathize
with, and love, Forrest.  His portrayal of this gentle man was the bright
spot in this fatally flawed movie.

******
26 May 2005
10
I've never seen anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for
that matter, I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump". Any
attempt to describe him would risk making the movie seem more
conventional than it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or
maybe a drama. Even a dream....The title character leads viewers through an accidental travelogue of
American social history from the early 1960s through the present in
this revisionist fable. Vietnam, desegregation, Watergate and more are
presented from the perspective of Hanks' lovably slow-witted character
as he finds himself embroiled in situations he can't quite comprehend.
Academy Award Nominations: 13, including Best Picture, Best Actor--Tom
Hanks, and Best Director. Academy Awards: 6, including Best Picture,
Director, Actor and Adapted Screenplay The screenplay by Eric Roth has
the complexity of modern fiction, not the formulas of modern movies.
Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a thoroughly decent man with an IQ of
75, who manages, between the 1950s and the 1980s, to become involved in
every major event in American history. And he survives them all with
only honesty and niceness as his shields.Yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The
movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of
a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are.
Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half". Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role. I can't
think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him into a
person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a
breathtaking, balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich
in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field), who
tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but never
criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid", his mother tells
him, "Stupid is as stupid does." He turns out to be incapable of doing
anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally fall from
his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind. That's how he gets a
college football scholarship, in a life story that eventually becomes a
running gag about his good luck. Gump, the football hero, becomes Gump,
the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump, the Ping-Pong
champion, Gump, the shrimp boat captain, Gump, the millionaire
stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named Apple
Computer), and Gump, the man who runs across America and then retraces
his steps. It could be argued that with his IQ of 75, Forrest does not
quite understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands
everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just
surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love,
although Jenny (Robin Wright), the girl he falls in love with in grade
school and never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't
know what love is." She's a stripper by that time. The movie is
ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American history. The
director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic that special
effects can do, and here he uses computerized visual legerdemain to
place Gump in historic situations with actual people. Special effects
are also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt.
Dan (Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who, quite convincingly, loses his
legs. Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is
able to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound,
in what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox". The biggest laugh in the
movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in
Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. As Forrest's life
becomes a guided tour of straight-arrow America, Jenny goes on a
parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course,
and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. Eventually it becomes clear that
between them, Forrest and Jenny have covered all of the landmarks of
our recent cultural history, and the accommodation they arrive at in
the end is like a dream of reconciliation for our society. What a
magical movie!

******
10 November 2001
5

All that money, all those clever effects, all those stars ... and for
what?
A mind-numbing stream of syrup with no discernible purpose except to fool
very dull people into thinking they have seen an epic movie. Life is like
a
box of chocolates? No, but some movies are as sickly sweet.

******
6 August 2000
3

Just came across your words, and I couldn't have said it better myself.
What's really insulting to me is the film's Republican wet dream worldview. 
Basically the message here is that if you keep your mouth shut and don't
question authority, you will become a great man (if you're a free-spirited
hippie, you'll die an early death alone). Of course Gump is a "simpleton";
any complex opinions might likewise bring out similar thoughts in the
audience, and we can't have that is a big shiny Hollywood movie. (Yeah, Gump
tried to speak out in DC, but the microphone went screwy...silenced by THE
MAN! :) )  And what's with the ending? Let's see, AIDS, death, marriage,
another death - all in twenty minutes.  Jeez, it's shameless.NO WAY this is better than Shawshank! Morgan Freeman's performance both
breaks my heart and fills me with hope (pretty much what Hanks tried and
failed to do - and he won the friggin' Oscar).  And Pulp Fiction changed
audience's and Hollywood's perception of what a film can be, something that
Gump didn't even attempt. It sucks. IT SUCKS. Still, always great to see Sally Field...

******
5 April 2002
2

I'm afraid that this film probably wouldn't have bothered me quite so much
if it had been significantly shorter. I tend to forget boring,
over-sentimental stuff if it isn't also seemingly interminable.It took me a long time after this film to be able to watch some of the
better Tom Hanks films and actually appreciate them (The Green Mile,
Philadelphia, Saving Private Ryan etc)As The Princess Bride was one of my all-time favourite films, I expected
better of Robyn Wright, but no-one could have saved a film with such an
inappropriate message

******
25 May 2000
2

This has to be one of the most over-rated films of all time. I expected
the
film to be stupid, which it was, but I didn't expect it to be incredibly
boring also. I couldn't even get through the video in one night; I was so
bored I had to stop watching it and finish it the next night. Its winning
the Oscar for Best Picture crystallized the opinion that I had been
forming
for several years that the opinion of the Academy is pretty
meaningless.

******
8 December 2000
4

Great CGI effects & a truly Oscar-worthy performance by Gary Sinise as Lt.
Dan. Tom Hanks is a one-trick pony in this movie, how he got the Best Actor Oscar
that year over Morgan Freeman was a crime. This movie is a pandering treacly love letter to the baby boom generation,
with a barely concealed right-wing prejudice, beginning from Forrest's
service in Vietnam all the way through to the "resolution" with Jenny at the
end.With that said, though, it is hugely entertaining and an American movie
through and through.  I found certain parts of this film exceedingly
offensive, Zemeckis dumbs down this movie almost to the level of Gump
himself . . .maybe that was the point he was trying to make.Watch this film and ask yourself "What is Robert Zemeckis saying about what
makes a good American?" Forrest seems to have made the "right" choices and been at the "right place
at the right time" for the last 45 years. Those who are wrong according to
the director's vision seem to pay a heavy price. So is Zemeckis saying that
idiocy disguised as innocence and naivety is a patriotic, even AMERICAN
quality?

******
31 May 2002
2

I'm either the only person in the world who didn't get this movie, or the
only one who did. When I saw it I figured the only way to evaluate it was
as
a variation on the great "Being There"-a wicked satire. But then the
mainstream reviews began pouring in and it became clear that people were
taking this Charming Simpleton tripe seriously. Does anyone really believe
that the same Robert Zemeckis who directed one of the most scathing,
vicious
comedies ever ("Used Cars") has suddenly gone simple himself and meant this
to be taken at face value? It's not a healthy sign when so many people seem
to regard a mentally challenged individual as a role model for all to
emulate. 

******
18 June 2000
5

OK, before I tear this movie to shreds, exactly HOW many Academy Awards
did
the stupid thing win? No, wait, don't tell me. I have a feeling the answer
will depress me.This hype--er, movie--is a living testament to the fact that the baby
boomers are incredible suckers. It's quite simple, really. You make a
movie
that romanticizes the '50's, '60's and '70's, and with enough publicity
and
a good enough soundtrack, no matter how bad the movie is, you have a hit
on
your hands. Now, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying the generation is
stupid
or shallow by any means; I'm merely saying that perhaps the haze of
nostalgia that obstructed their view of the movie screen during Forrest
Gump
is what made this trash a hit.Because Forrest Gump is one ridiculous, unbelievable joke followed by
another, and when Forrest isn't teaching Elvis how to dance, giving Lennon
the idea for "Imagine" or, in an embarrassing scene I only WISH I could
call
"forgettable", wiping his face on a clean shirt and making a smiley face
with the dirt by accident ("Have a nice day," he says to the man who gave
him the shirt, thankfully ending one of the "clever" scenes that surely
had
everyone rolling in the aisles); his life is taking another depressing
turn
that makes this less "feel-good movie of 1994" than "number 1 movie of
1994
to commit suicide to". He's born crippled with an IQ of 75; the
neighborhood
kids taunt and throw rocks at him; his "girlfriend" Jenny leads him on
hopelessly while sleeping with every man in America except for him; his
best
friend dies in Vietnam and his superior has his legs blown off. Feelin'
good
yet? Oh, it gets better.But even if Forrest Gump IS depressing, that doesn't make it a bad movie.
What makes it bad is, as I said before, the silliness. Sure, putting him
in
all those vintage newsreels is cute and even pretty cool to see. But the
cuteness wears thin pretty soon, and is replaced by more ridiculous events
in which Forrest inadverently alters NEARLY EVERY IMPORTANT EVENT IN
AMERICA, FOR THREE ENTIRE DECADES. Maybe that's appealing to some people,
but not for me. For me, it makes the movie completely unbelievable, and
what's more, stupid. This is not cute, and I certainly wasn't feeling good
when I realized I'd wasted over two hours of my life listening to Forrest
Gump's preposterous anecdotes.In the end, the movie's few saving graces--the good but predictable
soundtrack ("For What it's Worth" by Buffalo Springfield in a Vietnam
scene...great! Only 300 other movies before have done the exact same
thing!), and the interesting effects with the newsreels--fail to rescue
this
bomb from the clutches of mediocrity. Tom Hanks and Robert Zemeckis can
have
Oscars coming out of their friggin' ears, for all I care...this movie will
only ever amount to a 5 out of 10 in my book.

******
9 March 2016
9
Spoiler Warning!!!! Forrest Gump is in reality a movie that covers a
plethora of issues for example racial issues with the KKK and Black
Panthers, drugs, peace, war, and finally disability. For this review I
would like to touch on the disability portion. I must first say that
even though this movie is mostly comedic it can still be said that it
is partially accurate. In the beginning Forrest breaks off his braces
to help with his scoliosis but broke them off to run away from bullies.
Yet even though he had this disability against him he still had the
ability to do it. So in reality this movie begins by saying that it's
more about ability. I can prove this point further by saying that he
became a war veteran with a medal of honour and also managed to become
a millionaire and then evidently a successful father, even though
Forrest was put in the situation that was impossible, and even if it
was for comedic purposes it is much deeper, yet he still managed to
come out ahead. Mostly a duration of the movie it is asked if Forrest
is stupid, now Forrest doesn't like it and even though he may have a
low IQ he still manages to pull through in the long run. This is also
the case for Lt. Dan, he is in Vietnam harmed in battle and winds up
with his legs amputated, later in the movie he gets prothstetics and is
able to walk again, he also ends up being a millionaire because of his
success in the shrimp industry. It's not that he is in need because he
is disabled but is able to help because he is able. So in reality
Forrest Gump isn't necessarily a film about specifically disability or
otherwise it is something that shows how much of an ability you have
whether or not you have a disability from birth or war or some other
thing. It takes a will to do something and this is why I would give
this movie a 9/10 because of its uplifting story and some form of
motivation to do something with your life.

******
7 March 2016
5
I'm prepared to take some heat for this one. For my entire adult life,
and most of my childhood and young adult life as well. I've been urged
to see Forrest Gump. Never really being that into film until I started
college, I had managed to consistently refrain from seeing the film.
Then, of course, I begin a love affair with motion pictures that led my
attempt to see every Best Picture Oscar ever crowned. I obviously could
no longer avoid Forrest Gump, but now it was worse. I had never set out
to purposely avoid Robert Zemeckis 1994 epic, I simply wasn't
interested in it. After my evaluation of 1994 (once my affair with film
started), I became upset that Forrest Gump could possibly win Best
Picture over Pulp Fiction. As mentioned before, I am a huge fan of
Quentin Tarantino and I greatly appreciate what he does cinematically.
Pulp Fiction is a classic with so many wonderful devices used; a true
tour-de-force of Tarantino's incredible directing chops. I was then
dumbfounded to learn that Quentin's masterpiece didn't lose to Robert
Redford's Quiz Show, another movie I thought was in a class of its own.
I might add that many people would insert Shawshank Redemption in this
list of notable snubs I've provided, however, that film did for me all
Forrest Gump did and left me unimpressed. Of course, I could only
attest to whether or not the best film one if I see the winner, so it
was time to see Forrest Gump.Forrest Gump is a mentally handicapped man living in Alabama, dependent
on his mother (Sally Field) and growing up with his only friend Jenny
(Robin Wright). Somehow, for various reasons, Forrest is present at
every seminal moment of the second half of the 20th century. Forrest is
present for so many historical moments, but unable to be present for
the one thing he wants most; to share a life with Jenny. Through all
the trials and tribulations that accompany Forrest's life, Jenny always
manages back into the picture. Jenny is damaged herself, however, after
enduring a broken home and molestation as a child, Jenny has a hard
time coming into her own life. Forrest Gump tells proves even the most
ordinary person can have an extraordinary life.The acting was fine, I'm by no means a fan of Tom Hanks, but I can
recognize his commitment and success in this role. Robin Wright was
more of a standout for me as the troubled loner, however. Sally Field
played the role of a positivity laced protective mother, that would
stop at nothing to provide for her son flawlessly. I also give credit
to Zemeckis for shooting a great movie, as it was full of historical
imagery and well-suited for the screen. What the film lacks, for me,
far outweighs its strengths. I found the almost plot less adventures of
one person quite boring, eventually becoming redundant. How many times
can you be a part of something so historical by with hardly any
resources and by complete happenstance? An audience certainly exists
for Forrest Gump; Oscar crowned the feel-good story in 1994, over the
best cinematic achievement which they are no strangers too. Needless to
say, I'd take my non-linear favorite Pulp Fiction, or the gripping and
socially important Quiz Show over another viewing of Forrest Gump any
day.

******
22 February 2016
9
This film was an instant classic for me. They don't write scripts of this calibre any more, which is a shame.Tom Hanks is brilliant as the mildly retarded Forest Gump. The film
takes you by the hand, and shows Gumps life and experiences, both good
and bad, in his own words from childhood to adulthood.At the same time you get a basic look at modern U.S. history. It is heartwarming and sad, funny and satirical. Cleverly weaves in so
many sub plots and ideas. Yet doesn't use excessive violence or bad language to relate powerful
messages in a heartwarming story. A story all the family can watch. A cracking film you can enjoy over and over again.

******
20 February 2016
8
This film is one of my all time favorite film. He goes through life on
a cloud, which could be each of us. I hated that she penned the baby on
him, which is crazy. I love the fact of the Bama football, roll tide.
This is a great film, powerful, magical, passionate. He had a good
life, only thing he couldn't figure out why she just didn't love him. I
loved the comedy, also didn't know Tom had it in him. This film had
some very powerful moments, that are life lessons. The story is truly a
ride of a life time. Whatever he put his mind too, he did it and was
pretty good at it. I would've loved to be apart of this cast, very
powerful.

******
15 February 2016
9
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) is sat on a bench waiting for a bus. He's
hardly the most intelligent person in the world, but he's definitely
the most caring, heart-warming and relatable character to ever appear
in film. Gump tells his story to other bus-waiters who come and go and
only hear snippets of the whole tale. The path towards present day is
packed full of events and achievements, some of which include the
Vietnam war, meeting the President (twice), unveiling the Watergate
Scandal and running non- stop for over four years. Sounds ludicrous.
Above all else Gump has accomplished feats that would occur over many
lifetimes. Tom Hanks though, fills Gump's story with tenacity. He has
an eventful life, one full of ups and downs. Very sad, but very
humorous. A great film controlled by its lead man.

******
13 February 2016
9
This might just be the best movie I have ever seen! It made me all
kinds of emotional. There are parts that are so funny you will spit out
your drink but other parts make it hard to swallow. Forest Gump is a
simple man with a simple heart but he sure knows how to tell a story.
This is my favorite movie of all time and I wish I could watch it again
for the first time. I find that the worst part of the movie is the
ending with Jennie. I think the only thing that disturbs me is that
Jennie only comes to Forest when she is sick and no one else will take
her and then she left... I felt as if Forest deserved more respect than
that. However, the rest of the movie is golden. I 100% recommend it
anyone in the world.

******
9 February 2016
10
Forrest Gump is a masterpiece. This movie teaches you a very important
lessons of life. Life is a box of chocolates, you never know what you
gonna get. Tom Hanks delivers a one of greatest performance of all the
time. He is one of the best actors Hollywood ever had. This review is
spoiler free because i don't wanna ruin someone's movie by writing
about it. Everything in movie is so perfect. Story, Acting, Music
etc... Everything is great. THIS MOVIE IS AWEOME. 10 out of 10 without
doubt. You cant hate movies like this. I don't know how people can hate
this. You can do anything if you set your heart and mind on it. Thats
what i learned from this movie. Not only this and much more. Watch it
and you'll find out. 10 out of 10

******
9 February 2016
10
Watched Forrest Gump .... It's beautiful. It's just amazing. A concept
very few movies have successfully stood up to....It's the story of a stupid person named Forrest Gump. But its not just
a stupid comedy to be laughed at and forgotten. It makes you see the
world through the eyes of the stupid completely innocent Forrest. You
see death, the evils of war, corruption, jealousy, self righteousness,
greed, wealth, frustration, success and the world. But you see all of
it almost without reaction. Cause you see all of these through Gump's
eyes, through the eyes of a stupid man child and his brain doesn't work
like me and you, he is different.... That's what makes the movie so
special.... Talking about other stuff, they keep everything
simple, no special effects nothing. Just plain old good music at the
right time.... And I must say Tom Hanks just nailed it....This is definitely a #mustWatch for people of every age group.... At
you in love? I suggest you watch it with her. No it's not a romantic
drama....

******
8 February 2016
10
It is all about Shrimp.Forrest Gump show us how a well done thing is the best way to achieve
great results. This stories is about so basic things, but so amazing at
same time, we understand that sometimes be idiot is good. Forrest isn't
the most intelligent man, in really Forrest is just talented, but he
don't know, in reality we are like he. He can make things so big, and
he can make things who inspire millions. Forrest is a example of don't
plan your life, just live your life. This is the main argument: you
don't need to be the most intelligent people in the world, you just
need to be your self, and you will find follow in the most crazy you
can imagine, because it is life, it not logical, but it is how works.

******
8 February 2016
10
From harsh bullying to the creation of milestone characters that have
shaped our world. Forrest Gump delivers an inspiring journey in search
a long searched unconditioned love. I have been watching this movie once a year since I was a kid. I love
everything about it. Seeing the world through the eyes of Forrest Gump
is needed from time to time. The naive interpretation of the world that
Forrest delivers, will hand you a very useful perspective of the event
to come in your own life. Getting through this movie without feeling love, hurt, happiness and
even nostalgia is always an impossible task. For you out there who have
not yet seen this movie, get to it!

******
5 February 2016
10
This movie really is spectacular, with Tom Hanks in the title role
performing it spectacularly. Forrest Gump, a sweet, little, simple man
just chasing his one true love, is such a basic idea for a movie, but
is done in a way that is heart wrenching and emotional. By far, this is
one of my favorite movies. Few other films really can compare to
Forrest Gump in its emotion and overall theme of finding happiness in
your everyday life, no matter what life throws at you. And so, I would certainly rate Forrest Gump 10/10 every time, for it's
not the most big-budget films that end up being best, it's those which
truly strike a chord and bring out the joy in people that can be
classified as the best movies. And in the end, that's what movies are
about. Bringing joy and happiness, and creating and ideal world even in
the worst of times, for in the end, "all the world's a stage."

******
3 February 2016
10
To get a 10 from me, a movie needs to be practically perfect in all
aspects that I consider of the utmost importance: screenplay, acting,
characters, technical achievement and soundtrack. Forrest Gump achieves
that task. First of all, I think screenplay and characters ought to be analyzed
together. The story of this movie is absolutely brilliant on its
surface. The idea of displaying a naive and low IQ man who witnesses
some of the biggest events of the US history during the second half of
the XX century was perfectly performed. It was undoubtedly one of the
most amusing things that I've ever seen on the screen. However, the movie was for me something beyond that. Forrest Gump, as
being the simplest man you could ever imagine, represents the human
being at its "purest condition". Gump does everything that we would do
in the same situation if we weren't pressured by conventions
established by society. Most people start drinking beer, for instance,
not because they like it, but because they need acceptance from others.
Forrest's case is different: he drinks Coke because it tastes better.
He decides to mow the lawn because he likes it, regardless of other
people's thoughts about that. He loves Jenny without any prejudice or
shame, even though she only looks for him when she needs him
desperately, representing the rest of the corrupted human race. Summing
up, he follows his primal instinct and he is unconsciously immune of
everything else. This makes Forrest Gump one of the nicest and well
written characters of all time.Nothing would be the same, of course, if it wasn't Tom Hanks in the
leading role. He is astonishing, vanishing completely inside the
character. Robin Wright is also perfect as Jenny, being able to perform
a large amount of feelings among almost two hours and a half. Gary
Sinise and Sally Field are also great. Michael Conner Humphreys and
Hanna Hall, who performed young Gump and young Jenny, caught our
attention from the very beginning.Robert Zemeckis and his team made the movie of their carriers. The
visual effects were revolutionary, placing Gump alongside John F.
Kennedy and John Lennon and making the audience burst out laughing.
Moreover, the rhythm and the editing were perfect and the
cinematography was impressive. The soundtrack is also a differential, because it follows perfectly the
passage of time. Hence, we enjoy some of the best hits of the 60s, the
70s and the 80s. The original score deserves a mention too. It's
simple, beautiful and fits perfectly with the scenes where it appears. Forrest Gump is directed brilliantly, has memorable characters,
astonishing and captivating performances, an original and magnificent
plot and a marvelous soundtrack. Surely one of the best movies ever
made.Vote: 10.

******
30 January 2016
10
I think it's the most beautiful movie i have ever seen The movie has it
all too,drama,comedy and it challenges societal norms as well I have
seen this movie easily a half a dozen times "Forrest Gump" is one of
the best movies of all time Tom Hanks' best performance He did
everything from leading a football team to a championship, to being a
war hero. Even through the tough times in high school to the frantic
relationship with Jenny, Forrest still remained humble and resilient. A
beautiful story.I can understand why it won 6 Oscars.Overall the film
Forrest Gump is a great movie. It's definitely a movie you could re
watch and still enjoy it as much as the first time.There is no way to
define "Forrest Gump" as a movie. It can only be defined as art.

******
19 January 2016
10
before I Started watching this movie for the first time, I thought I
was going to watch a slow and boring movie, but after watching , I
realized, I stupid I had been to judge this great movie even before
watching it. I became a fan of Tom Hanks. I find myself similar to
Forest Gump. I don't remember how many times I watched it, every time I
watch it, I feel great. I took great motivation from this movie. Sound
effect was great but most importantly the special effect used to bring
back Ex Us President John F Kennedy was mind blowing. I recommend many
of my friends to watch it and they all loved it. Tom hanks acting was
out standing for what he won the Oscar eventually.

******
17 January 2016
10
This movie will never get old and cannot be duplicated. Tom Hanks has
done a phenomenal job bringing out this disabled character from every
aspect never missing a beat. From childhood memories of bullying to
just growing up and trying to be accepted,this film makes you think
about your own life and become grateful. It gives you a sense of hope
in knowing you can be somebody that makes a change in this world. Full
of emotional drama, action, and a little bit of comedy "Forrest Gump"
is an all time favorite. Ten out of Ten hands down one of the best
Films created. Watching this movie lets you see it from the eyes of
someone who wasn't born with the glamorous or perfect lifestyle. I
learn and see something different every time I watch it.

******
11 January 2016
10
i don't usually watch many family type movies, but forrest gump is
honestly one of my favourite movies to watch with my son and partner.
tom hanks is a wonderful actor and in this movie it shows! there are
some tears, some comedy, some laughter, some sadness, just basically a
lot of emotions that shows we are all human in one way or another. i
never get tired of watching it and seem to learn life lessons every
time i watch it because i have forgotten some small phrase or action or
something, then think oh wow forgot about that! then it seems familiar
like an old friend - it is that sort of movie. very highly recommend it
to anyone!

******
6 January 2016
8
As a big tom hanks fan forrest gump has to be one of my favorite of his
movies great cast well written movie about a man with the mind of a
child and they show the world through his eyes the man went to school
played college football became a war hero met two presidents not bad
for a man who people though would never amount to any thing overall
this is a 4 star movie and wished more movies would have a great story
to tell,if you like history comedy romance a few things getting blown
up here and there then this movie is for you i was 12 when i first saw
this movie and it keeps getting better every time i see it every one
should see this movie at least once

******
4 January 2016
9
There are movies that you can stand up while watching, go to the toilet
or get another bowl of popcorn, and than there are movies, that keep
you bound to your chair till the end because it's heartfelt and
spectacular plot is just too good.The latter is what this movie is. There is no way, anybody would be
able to take their eyes off of this masterpiece directed by Robert
Zemeckis. It combines one of the most beautiful screenplays in the 20th
century and a score that keeps playing in your head until you
peacefully fall asleep or just die and go straight to heaven.The leading role of Forest Gump is being played by an astonishingly
good Tom Hanks - such a great performance! As well portrayed is the
smaller role of the mother, played by Sally Fields and Gumps big
love-interest Jenny, portrayed by Robin Wright.Boots the house down, this is a must-see movie for every generation.

******
30 December 2015
9
A classic Robert Zemeckis film. The movie captures the life of Forrest
perfectly. Its sweet and charming, it contains true depth and grace to
its characters and story. Its an accomplished feat of cyber-cinema that
it tricks, not to mention subtler ones, look amazingly seamless. As he
did in "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" and the "Back to the Future" films,
Robert Zemeckis is bound to leave viewers marveling at the sheer
wizardry behind such effects. Even the opening credit sequence,
featuring a feather that drifts along a perfectly choreographed
trajectory until it reaches its precise destination. The movie grabs
the attention of most people. SEE IT

******
29 December 2015
10
Your review does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for
reviews is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines. Attempts to pad
the comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked
from future submissions.By submitting this review you are agreeing to
the terms laid out in our Copyright Statement. Your submission must be
your own original work. Your review will normally be posted on the site
within 2-3 business days. Reviews that do not meet the guidelines will
not be posted. Please write in English only. HTML or boards mark-up is
not supported though paragraph breaks will be inserted if you leave a
blank line between paragraph.

******
24 December 2015
7
It's an anthem to the American Dream and hymn the country's history in
the mid to late 1900's. But it's also an ambitious movie with lots of
iconic and funny moments. The main character is the simple ordinary
Forrest who finds success in everything just by doing what he's told
and following societal conventions without questioning them. Of course,
it takes a heaping amount of luck to make it happen but it is
satisfying to see the good guy win. The antagonist, of course, is
Jenny, who does happen to question society, becomes a counterculture
protester, and she ends up dying from AIDS. There's pretty binary
system of morality at work in the film and a dearth of actually complex
or interesting characters, but whatever it's a movie full of quotable
dialogue. Definitely overrated, but good.

******
14 December 2015
9
This is the only film for which I can use the word "Beautiful" without
any hesitation. 6 Academy Awards, $677,387,716 in box office & 8.8
rating in IMDb combined don't say it all.Tom Hanks portrayed the role of Forest Gump more than perfectly. Other
supporting actor and actresses weren't that memorable. But that's for
the sake of the story. Robert Zemeckis probably taught us how to
direct. Hanks & Zemeckis did the best job of their career.Film editing was flawless. They shot the film in different locations
and every single one of them added a new level of greatness to the
film. The musics weren't much noticeable. Also weren't the visual
effects. Which is actually a big success, because I thought they didn't
use any visual effect.The story is simple, plain and for some mysterious reason also sad.
Forest Gump will teach you how to live life. Miracles and shits both
happen for a definite reason. You'll find out what's your destiny is,
but not before you fulfill it. Just float around like a feather and
you'll be OK. Do what you feel like, don't do it for any other reason.p.s. Those who are criticizing, there're more to a film than just the
story. And about the academy awards, open your mind.

******
14 December 2015
10
Possibly the best movie I've ever seen. I don't have a single complaint
with this movie. Absolutely amazing. Tom Hanks gives an absolutely
incredible performance, as well as the rest of the cast. Would
recommend to everyone. Doesn't matter what genre you're into, you need
to see Forrest Gump. So many great things in this film. From start to
finish this was a heart warming film. Also shot really well. If you
haven't seen this film, do yourself a favor and watch it. You will not
regret it. Pretty long film, but not for even a second did i feel bored
while watching. I'm serious, stop reading this crap review and watch it
immediately!

******
8 December 2015
7
In recent years this movie has received a lot of backlash. Why? Because
apparently it beat Pulp Fiction, and The Shawshank Redemption, at the
Oscars or something. Well yes...it shouldn't have been chosen over
those two, but does that make it a bad movie? Absolutely not! The
premise of Forrest Gump, is the character Forrest Gump. He is rather
simple minded, but has many hidden talents, and has accidentally been
at many significant events in history.And when I say history what I really mean is American history. This
movie is also largely about America, and American culture. This is by
no means a bad thing, it's very interesting, and it's part of what
drives the plot forward. At times the movie can be very patriotic, and
this could be what put some viewers off. I'm not from America, and
while it didn't put me off, a lot of the people I was watching it with,
were so, and for that reason.I personally think it's part of the story and simply take it for what
it is. The biggest flaw of the movie is Forrest's love interest Jenny.
I'm not saying that she wasn't well acted (the actress playing her did
a great job) but her character is the problem. This movie is ultimately
a love story, and on one side you have the lovable Forrest, whose
character you come to love, and then there's Jenny. Is there anything
particularly lovable about Jenny (after she grows up that is?) Not
necessarily. She could be seen as a bad influence, considering some of
the things she does.Fortunately that is not in the movie all that much, but it does
detract, when you really think about it. Despite this problem this is
an enjoyable film, one definitely worth watching, and one you'll
probably find yourself quoting afterwards...a LOT. With all that in
mind I give this movie a 7/10

******
7 December 2015
10
This film can be described in so many ways. One may call it, inspired,
clever, brilliant, heartwarming, truly unique. I call it genius. In my
years i've yet to come across a film to impact me on such an emotional
and profound level. Forrest Gump as a character is so dynamic and
relatable. His arc is so intriguing to watch, and the friendships he
makes throughout his life are just as relatable as the character
himself. This film nourishes love and acceptance in it's purest and
most human forms. I felt joy and anger and sadness all at once. It
truly is one of the greater cinematic works of our time. Though it's
brand has become kitschy and commercial for major cities to serve up
their "Bubba Gump Shrimp" specialties, the film has earned its renown.
"Forrest Gump" is and will be in my top five favorite films for many
years to come.

******
7 December 2015
9
One of the greatest movies I have ever seen. The story is so nice to
watch. And I see it over and over again. Tom Hanks is the best actor.
He plays full part in the film which has been the greatest of all. nice
one to be seen in this arena. The movie length is also fine to watch.
There will be no boring scene in the movie if you are a movie lover.
Forrest Gump is a simple man with a low I.Q. but good intentions. He is
running through childhood with his best and only friend Jenny. His
'mama' teaches him the ways of life and leaves him to choose his
destiny. Forrest joins the army for service in Vietnam, finding new
friends called Dan and Bubba, he wins medals, creates a famous shrimp
fishing fleet, inspires people to jog, starts a ping-pong craze, create
the smiley, write bumper stickers and songs, donating to people and
meeting the president several times. However, this is all irrelevant to
Forrest who can only think of his childhood sweetheart Jenny Curran.
Who has messed up her life. Although in the end all he wants to prove
is that anyone can love anyone.

******
30 November 2015
10
This movie is very emotional and suspenseful. The movie is also very
sad. Some of the parts of the movie brought about a couple of tears to
my eyes. The saddest part of the movie that triggered a couple tears
was when Forrest Gump and his comrades were fighting in the war and he
watched one of his closest friends fatally die slowly by the enemies.
As he watched, others were getting shot as well. Another sad part of
the movie was when the woman he very well loved left him to search for
a better life. This left him devastated. The worst part was that he
never did get to at least say goodbye. She left early in the morning
while he was still asleep. This is my review on Forrest Gump.

******
28 November 2015
10
Forrest Gump is Tom Hanks best performance, This is NOT up for debate.
It's the most Unbelievable believable film i think i ever did see, I
watch Tom Hanks and i don't see him the 'Actor' in this role i just see
the character that is Forrest Gump and to me this is a testament to Mr
Hanks greatness. Forrest Gump makes my top 5 list of the greatest films
i have seen and i have seen a million or so. This is just one of them
films of only a few they i can watch over and over and it be as great
as it always was. Robert Zemeckis and Tom Hanks are great duo but this
is there very best to date. Perhaps Forrest Gump may not be Hanks best
film because i believe that title is The Green Mile, Tom Hanks as an
actor was a generation best and still continues to be great.

******
23 November 2015
10
You never know what you're gonna get". Those are the words of wisdom
that come from Forrest Gumps Mouth. Directed By Robert Zemeckis, and
starring Tom Hanks(in his greatest performance) as Forrest Gump, tells
the story of the unintelligent Forrest Gump, and shows his struggles
with the world, as the result of his innocence. The Score is beautiful and the opening scene is just tragically well
filmed. The Cinematography is fantastic, and it captures the humour and
the sadness of the Film. The Special Effects are incredible, especially
for 1994. Forrest Gump deserved every award it got(best picture, best
actor),and it's IMDb score reflects the greatness of this film, that
will last as won of the best films of the 90's.Tom Hanks, who was awarded best actor for his performance, is at the
peak of his game as Forrest Gump. Once the Movie is done, you're sure
to believe Tom Hanks IS Forrest Gump. One of the most convincing
performances of all time.10/10.

******
23 November 2015
10
This film has it all! Action, drama, comedy and more, the type of film
you can watch over and over again and love it just the same. Not only
is the movie itself great, but it comes with a fantastic soundtrack as
well. This film was released when I was still in high school. I liked
it so much that my friends and I decided to do a remake of it (a much
shorter version with select scenes) in our TV production class. Tom
Hanks does an amazing job in this film portraying Forrest Gump, you can
really get into his character and really believed that he could do all
these things. I own the two-disc cd set of the soundtrack and I love
pretty much every song on it. This is one of those films that will go
down in history as one of the greatest ever.

******
23 November 2015
10
Life like box of chocolate. You never know what the inside is... and
after i listen this quotes... i'm speechless...I don't want review too long. For what ? It's brilliant movie and
strong of moral lesson and positive person to-warding Forrest Gump (
Tom Hanks ). So... this film is set beautifully, strong, full of lesson
that a low- frequency of IQ can make world see him...as long i watched this movie, i didn't found any errors or anything.
only anarchoisms that i found it. But, this great movie makes me forget
what is the goof are ? Plus this movie winning multiple Oscars. it was
6 Oscars.end review

******
21 November 2015
10
Forrest Gump is THE movie of all time. I loved it as a kid and I love
it as much as I did then to this day, it's a movie that really holds up
among all ages. I didn't understand many concepts when I was young
(granted), I just understood what was going on by how the actors
portrayed their characters. Forrest Gump has all genres of a movie
ever, all rolled into one; Romance, Comedy, War, History, Drama, and
overall a remarkable learning experience. Forrest's relationship with Bubba and Lieutenant Dan were precious, his
relationship with his mum was beautiful and Forrest's love for Jenny
was enlightening, but it was certain elements regardless of this that
made me adore the movie much more. 'The Feather', the soundtrack, the
historically adapted scenes, and the tear-jerking performance by Tom
Hanks make me love 'Forrest Gump' so damn much!I fell for this movie the way Forrest fell for Jenny.Forrest Gump: 10/10

******
16 November 2015
10
Wow, what a movie it is. It's been years since i've watched it for the
first time, and i was speechless. I've seen many movies, many of them i
watched over and over again, but Forrest Gump is one of my favourite
one. Tom Hanks deservedly won an Oscar for his role, he's outstanding,
the rest of the crew isn't far behind, and directing is a master-class.
Robert Zemeckis pulls all the strings and makes this masterpiece his
best movie so far. You have everything in this movie - from comedy to
drama, you'll be laughing and crying and the same time. Highly
recommended, but i doubt there's someone out there that haven't seen
this beautiful movie... Forgot to add, best watched with loved one :)

******
15 November 2015
10
This Movie is in my opinion one of the best, if not the best, movie
ever. It delivers so many emotions. Its amazing how a movie can make
one actually feel with the protagonist that much! Forrest Gump, the
protagonist, is not very bright, still her manages to live a fulfilled
live and archives things, that many people only can dream about. All
that he does with his hat in his hands. Tom Hanks manages to bring
Forrest Gump to life, he delivers an outstanding actor performance.
Through that, one can actually feel what Forrest Gump feels, that makes
this movie so emotional. His strenght and ability to never give up and
let live bring one down is delivered very well and inspires the viewer,
me at least, a lot.

******
12 November 2015
9
It's one of those rare movies that everyone has seen and just about
everyone loves. It's a classic and it's not hard to see why. The movie
takes on the simpleness of it's title character, Forrest Gump. It's not
flashy, it's simple, and the simpleness is beautiful. It isn't just a
story of a man, but of the generation he was apart of. The brilliance
of how these two different elements are put together is what makes
Forrest Gump the lovable and great movie it is.If you're one of the few
people who haven't seen Forrest Gump, all I can say is, watch it. I
don't know if we each have a destiny, or if we're all just floating
around accidental-like on a breeze, but I, I think maybe it's both.
Maybe both is happening at the same time. I miss you Jenny. If there's
anything you need. I won't be far away.

******
6 November 2015
10
Forrest Gump is a movie heart-breaker of oddball wit and startling
grace. There's talk of another Oscar for Tom Hanks, who is
unforgettable as the sweet-natured, shabbily treated simpleton of the
title. The Academy is a sucker for honoring afflicted heroes. In
Hollywood, it's always raining rain men. Credit Hanks for not
overplaying his hand. He brings a touching gravity to the role of an
idiot savant from the South who finds strength in God, country, his
childhood pal, Jenny (Robin Wright), and his good mama (Sally Field).
When Forrest falls a few IQ points shy of minimal school requirements,
Mama knows who to sleep with to bend the rules. Her son has a gift. As
Forrest makes his pilgrim's progress from the '50s to the '80s, he
becomes a college football star, a Vietnam war hero, a shrimp tycoon
and even a father.Taking a cue from Zelig, director Robert Zemeckis places Forrest in a
vivid historical context  he talks with JFK, LBJ and Nixon, among
other luminaries. The effects dazzle, though never at the expense of
the story. Winston Groom, who wrote the 1986 novel, saw Forrest as a
modern Candide, an optimist in the face of strong opposing evidence.
But Groom is no Voltaire, and neither is screenwriter Eric Roth (Mr.
Jones, Memories of Me), who blunts his satire with choking sentiment.
It's Hanks who brings humor and unforced humanity to the literary
conceit of Forrest, though the slim actor scarcely resembles the
6-foot-6-inch, 240-pound bruiser of the book.In a college dorm with Jenny, who lets him touch her breast, the
virginal Forrest ejaculates instantly, losing her interest and his
self-respect. In the Army, Forrest saves his captain (Gary Sinise),
whose legs are later amputated, and the captain resents him. Forrest is
everything we admire in the American character  honest, brave, loyal 
and the film's fierce irony is that nobody can stay around him for
long.Zemeckis doesn't fall into the trap of using Forrest as an ad for
arrested development. He knows the limits of a holy fool who can't
understand the hypocrisy of postwar America that this picaresque epic
so powerfully reveals. The peace-love pretensions of the '60s are
skewered as neatly as the greed decades that follow. But there is
something of Forrest that Zemeckis would like to see rub off on us: his
capacity for hope. It's an ambitious goal in this age of rampant
cynicism. Godspeed.

******
3 November 2015
10
The moment you see that the protagonist is Tom Hanks, you know this
movie's gonna be great- and it is ! Everything works in this movie- The
music, the acting, the story, the dialog, the romance, the drama, the
humor.... Everything works flawlessly !! Hanks is absolutely
magnificent, his character is fantastic !! After watching this film, I
really think Tom Hanks could be the next DiCaprio !! He can act so
dramatic at one minute, the other minute he can be so hilarious you
won't believe how excellent he can act !! Also, every character works.
I won't spoil anything but even if something happens to a curtain
character and you don't cry, you'll still think the actor did a great
job portraying the character. This film deserves 10/10, it's impossible
to feel bored in this movie, every second you can either laugh
hysterically, feel so invested in the story and the dialog, or even cry
when something sad happens. This film is a must watch !!!

******
25 September 2015
8
The movie is very funny. The movie get Oscar-winner in 1994.And the
movie get many awards. The movie's Director is Robert Zemeckis. The
plot is arrange parts and design very well. The main character is Tom
HanKs that is outstanding actor. The quote is "Mama always said life
was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."
That mean is today do thing, and you don't know will chance things. The
movie is talking Forrst Gump all life. He is a bad lucky boy. And he
have a dream. So, he is courageous and brave. He is soldier. Don't
afraid anything. The end of soldier story. Next, he is a runner. He ran
around the world in the movie end. So, he have persist himself of
dreaming and never give up. Finally, if you have a dream, you go to do
immediately and must coming true. Adding information, you are attracted
by the movie. Touch you heart. So, the movie is everyone worth watching
again.

******
23 September 2015
7
I have watched this movie in Spanish class when I was in high school.
At first I didn't like it , but towards the end I did. The way he
portrayed his character was really good. I didn't expect for him to do
that. I love how he got his accent down. It was really a nice movie to
watch. It was entertaining but then again boring for me to watch
because I didn't really understand it. I would recommend it to anyone
else though if they like movies like that. Even if they just want to
see him play someone else for a change. Tom Hanks is one of my favorite
actors. This is one of his best films, the one I like best I think is
the one where he was on the beach. Cast away

******
20 September 2015
8
Forrest Gump is a story of acceptance and understanding one that opens
your eyes while still being the most classic version of a love story.
Each of the characters in this movie is dynamic and worth watching.
They all have such different paths the ultimately intertwine and the
central point where they meet is him. This boy who becomes a man with a
heart as big as they come and a mind thats sharp in its own right.
Never to be taken for granted Forrest is a one of a kind character and
human being and this movie is iconic. It teaches all of us that what
makes you different doesn't make you strange it makes you powerful in
your own right and anyone who does not believe that our applaud that
has no place in your life.

******
15 September 2015
10
What can I say about this Oscar winning piece of pure geniality?! This
film touches every inch of my heart. Although the story be a little bit
impossible to happen in today's world, it's the strong message of the
whole movie that counts for me. Showing that we should not resign at
our own luck and we have the duty to change and contour our destiny,
even if the odds are not in our favor or against us. This piece of
sublime seventh art also makes us think and reflect about gratitude,
justice, loyalty, dignity, honor and benevolence. Not all those that
aren't design to do great things, are incapable to succeed. Man birth
equally in democratic countries, so, why not defy all the odds,
statistics, conceptions and borders? Amazing actor, message of
strength, courage and dignity. And beyond all, a fantastic treatment of
real historical events.

******
8 September 2015
10
I can't believe how long it has taken me to watch Forrest Gump but I am
so glad I did. I won't cover the story or write too much as it has all
already been said, i just wanted to add my piece. The story was
heartwarming, heartbreaking, inspiring and emotive. I was not bored for
one second of this film. The actors are all brilliant and engage you
right from the start. The story is told in flashback style which is
incredibly well suited to the story. This is a classic for a reason,
watch it, most people will love Forrest Gump. The only negative about
the whole film is how sad the story is, whilst it is careful to never
linger on a depressing note, this film may as well be called Here is
likable Forrest Gump, now watch as everyone he loves dies.

******
6 September 2015
9
Run Forrest Run!!! If u didn't watch this movie, I seriously suggest
you to watch this movie ASAP. It shows a person with no special
abilities can also be a world class person (receiving awards from
American Presidents). "A stupid is as stupid does" one line that forrest recites every time
remembering his mother. This has a lot of meaning in it. She insists
her son not to agree with anyone who says " I am better than you". As a
little boy forrest with a low IQ and problem in the spine faces a lot
of problems with the society. But, his mother has a strong desire to
get the best for his Son. In his childhood, he got to meet a little girl of his age who is the
only friend of him in his entire childhood. They grew up together but
takes two paths which are quite opposite. Forrest goes into the army
and then into the VERY successful shrimp business and had become one of
the richest persons. He is a natural guy who has no special qualities
but, that becomes his special.

******
26 August 2015
9
This movie is great but there are some unrealistic things,Thats why i
gave just 9 out of 10. For example, jenny were always accidental at
Forrest. When Forrest were at the military jenny where there. And
unrealistic is he became star from everything what he did. And he ran
round of the world. I know the movie wanted to show his perseverance
but i don't like unrealistic things in movie. (Also i don't like
unrealistic things if its Symbolize something.)Forrest was my exemplar. Everyone mocked him because he is handicapped
but Forrest didn't interested about it. What Forrest did insistently he
became the best from it. eg.Table Tennis,Football and Crab Fishing. The
movie showed that he first couldn't play Table Tennis but he didn't
care anyone he didn't care anything, he's just knock knock and knock
the ball. If he don't have table tennis partner he's playing with his
self. That was my favorite scene. I feeled remorse in myself and i
decided i will never mock anybody because of his body or for anything.
(That was the first thing what inspired me.)The second was the perseverance, he never stopped playing table tennis
and he became a star. Every day every night he's just played this sport
and he wasn't different as anybody, just in one thing.. The
perseverance. Oh, and the movie showed me one more thing. Forrest didn't have the
best life but he brought out the best. He never were sad he always
thought:It could be worse.Good movie i think YOU HAVE TO YOU MUST watch this movie!

******
25 August 2015
10
A movie marvel, Forrest Gump is a must see, and I mean it. Any movie
goer who hasn't seen this movie should have it on his list.Forrest Gump is a touching story which puts you in the perspective of a
man with an deficit of some sort, without degrading him... Forrest is
like a child in an adult's mind and an adult world. But even someone
like forest can and will do great things. With Forest, you will see
major events that shaped the 70s, including the Vietnam War, the
hippies, Watergate, the assassination of Kennedy... all through his
perspective.Forest is good of nature and will always do what he thinks is best, he
has a naive view of the world, which he sees as something beautiful, he
is selfless and will always give when he can. Great acting, directing and story telling, the movie will make you
believe it is real and want it to be real.I have seen this movie many times before and I will see it again.

******
20 August 2015
8
"Stupid is as stupid does," says Forrest Gump (played by Tom Hanks in
an Oscar-winning performance) as he discusses his relative level of
intelligence with a stranger while waiting for a bus. Despite his
sub-normal IQ, Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a ringside seat
for many of the most memorable events of the second half of the 20th
century. Entirely without trying, Forrest teaches Elvis Presley to
dance, becomes a football star, meets John F. Kennedy, serves with
honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks at an anti-war rally at
the Washington Monument, hangs out with the Yippies, defeats the
Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard Nixon, discovers
the break-in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping business,
becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides to run
back and forth across the country for several years. Meanwhile, as the
remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets Jenny
(Robin Wright Penn), the girl he loved as a boy, who makes her own
journey through the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more
troubled than the path Forrest happens upon. Featured alongside Tom
Hanks are Sally Field as Forrest's mother; Gary Sinise as his
commanding officer in Vietnam; Mykelti Williamson as his ill-fated Army
buddy who is familiar with every recipe that involves shrimp; and the
special effects artists whose digital magic place Forrest amidst a
remarkable array of historical events and people.

******
17 August 2015
10
This is my favorite movie. I reviewed every year and always find some
new small parts. Tom Hanks best here. In the film, at the macro level
shows the shift of an entire culture. As society develops in America -
Presidents come and go, there is a war, passed the whole epoch in the
culture. Everything flows, everything changes, and the main character
remains unchanged. A bench, on which sits the whole movie and talks
about his life and at the same time the life of America's Forrest Gump,
like a symbol of his immutability. With all the changes around Forest
remains himself. The only film that I've never heard a negative review!
Thanks to Robert Zemeckis and Tom Hanks, as well as the entire team of
the film.

******
12 August 2015
7
This is a good movie for what it is but I really don't know why people
say it's one of the best films ever made.Forrest Gump is not a smart man but he has accidentally been present at
many historical events. While sitting on a park bench, he tells
strangers about what he experienced in life and the people he met.The musical score is well-done and perfectly timed. It hits all the
right notes at the right time. It does a great job drawing different
emotions out of the audience.Also, I think that this is a very entertaining feel-good movie. It is
also pretty compelling. It has a nice message as well. It's message is
that you can achieve all you can in life. It can inspire many people
and it does a great job doing what it wanted to do. However, then there
are the flaws.Firstly, the movie often gets crippled under its own sentimentality. I
get that the movie was trying to draw emotions out of the audience but
it does it too often. Its sentimental moments can be real overwhelming
at times. I'm not going to spoil anything but the ending seemed to
exist just to add more unnecessary sentimentality to the movie.Also, this movie is overlong and stretched-out. It could've been cut
down a lot. Several scenes I felt could've been cut down or could've
been completely left out altogether. I grew bored several times
throughout.In conclusion, this is a pretty good movie and I like it for what it
is. I just don't think it's anything special like many people say it
is.

******
4 August 2015
9
As much as it was sort of a quirky film, I still enjoyed watching
Forrest Gump. It was very entertaining and filled with humor. This is a
movie that I wouldn't mind watching once or twice a year. Tom Hanks is
such a brilliant actor, he definitely deserved an Oscar nomination for
the role he played. I also enjoyed watching Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan, he
also brought some humor to the character. In fact, he took that role
very seriously and named his tribute band, Lt. Dan Tribute Band. When
this movie came out in 1994 it was a really big hit with friends in the
industry. Sally Field grew into her character as well and she was
brilliant in playing Mrs. Gump. I really enjoyed the scenes on the park
bench, where the stories were being told. I definitely recommend this
as a family movie for teens and above.

******
3 August 2015
10
This movie is amazing! It has great actors like Robin Wright and Tom
Hanks. The story line is so sweet with beautiful music in the
background. A must see movie! I'd recommend ages 13+. It tells the
story of Forrest sitting at a bus stop telling anyone who come's to sit
with him part of his life story. His gait problems, first love, best
friend, the war, making money, losing love and finding it again and
having a restaurant. Forrest makes people laugh, he makes me people
cry, he has wisdom for everyone including the famous quote:"life is like a box of chocolates, you never know which one you'll
get".

******
30 July 2015
10
Funny, charming, out of this world story. Loved every second of it! It
makes you laugh so hard that your belly hurts and cry your eyes out at
the same time! This is the story that is hard to believe at first...
But after you've seen it you don't care anymore if it's true or not.
You don't even think about that! All because the movie has you now!
Meet Forrest, a real person! Someone may say he is too naive to survive
and all this story is like a fairytale. But I would prefer to see as
much more of people like that in my life! Too naive you say? I don't
care! I prefer honesty! And main character is the best in it! Enjoy!
This movie is great!

******
26 July 2015
6
Maybe the book was better.I get that they were going for a "stupid is as stupid does", to show
the triumph of optimism, et al.But mostly this movie just made me sad. Sad that Forrest was treated
this way. Sad that even his triumphs were accidental.The fact that they had Forrest get to meet Elvis, the president(s),
John Lennon and all those other historical figures just made it seem
even more fake than the CGI it took to add him to all those historical
scenes (George Wallace, JFK, Johnson, etc.) It threw you out of the
realism of the film -- AND also seemed so unrealistic that someone like
Forrest could achieve those kinds of things outside of a film.Finally, I don't understand anyone considering his love of Jenny as a
true romance. Yes, I believe he loved her. I believe that she loved him
in her own way, but not romantically. I understand that she was
incredibly messed up by the sexual abuse of her father and that's why
she pursued the self-destructive life she did. I understand that she
felt she might not be worthy of Forrest because she was suicidal and
messed up. She seems to have tried to turn her life around right before
she died of AIDS, and was trying to provide for herself without relying
on a man.My interpretation of Jenny relationship with Forrest was either: 1. She
came home because she was pregnant (cue her sleeping all the time),
then had sex with Forrest, then years later when sick, claimed he was
the father, so her son would be taken care of. or 2. Forrest truly was
the father (and there are hints such as them bending their heads the
same way while watching TV & fishing). If so, why did she not tell
Forrest he had a child until she was dying? I understand maybe she
didn't want to marry him and raise the child together - but that still
seemed cruel. Again, I feel that she only married him at the end as she
was dying to give the child a parent. Not because she felt true
romantic love for Forrest.Best part of the film were the performances. I did like Gary Sinese's
performance, that was outstanding. His bitterness at being rescued, his
life trajectory and turn around were handled very well. Tom Hanks did a
good job of portraying Forrest with dignity. And Robin Wright did a
fairly good job as a self-destructive victim struggling to come to
terms with her life.

******
21 July 2015
10
Forrest Gump is an amazing movie. Tom Hanks gives what is arguably his
best and most iconic performance in a movie that never ceases to
surprise me.There are a million things that could have gone wrong with this movie,
such as Forrest Gump becoming an annoying character or thinking wrong
of Jenny for constantly denying Forrest, but thanks to the
performances, writing and directing by Robert Zemeckis, this never
happens. Actually, it's quite the opposite! You grow to love Forrest
Gump and you can totally understand where Jenny is coming from
considering what she's been through and the time period they live in.
This movie show us the time period it takes place in so well and it
ties in the events that happened during that time incredibly well. Many
people don't get the message of the movie. It's not just some dumb guy
taking part in random events throughout history because of luck. No.
Absolutely not. Forrest Gump tells an inspiring story about a man, seen
inferior by others because he's not intelligent, who accomplishes some
of the most incredible things some of us could only dream of doing. Why
did he do them? Because he felt like it. The message of this movie is,
anyone can do anything, no matter where they stand in society or where
they come from. If you put your mind to it, you can accomplish it.There aren't many, or any bad things I can say about this movie, so
I'll just say this. Forrest Gump is an incredible movie, it's one of my
favorite films of all time.

******
13 July 2015
9
Forrest Gump (1994): Dir: Robert Zemeckis / Cast: Tom Hanks, Robin
Wright, Gary Sinise, Sally Field, Mykelti Williamson: Brilliant
filmmaking that stretches many historical aspects all observed and
experienced by one simple individual who lived a complicated life.
Forrest Gump was born and raised in Alabama where he overcomes a
walking disability, survives Vietnam, starts a shrimp business, plays
football, and meets two Presidents. What is most interesting is its
emphasis upon the historical elements through the limited understanding
of Gump. Excellent work by director Robert Zemeckis whose impressive
resume also includes such unique films as Back to the Future and Who
Framed Roger Rabbit? Remarkable work by Tom Hanks as Gump whose
accomplishments never out weight his sense of devotion. Robin Wright
plays Jenny who descends into drugs all the while denying the one man
who has always sheltered her. Mykelti Williamson plays Vietnan buddy
Bubba whose friendship with Gump would live on when a dream becomes a
reality. Gary Sinise is commanding as Lieutenant Dan Taylor whose sense
of duty is tested when Gump saves him thus opening other opportunities.
Sally Field plays Gump's caring mother whose advice is carried on
through memory. Sometimes unfairly depressing but demonstrates one's
purpose to do great things. Score: 9 / 10

******
13 July 2015
9
immensely grateful to this wonderful film , inspiring and heartbreaking
for this film was that I decided to venture into the cinema, among
other ... I tell you that special people come to this world has to do
it !, happier in my personal experience with live person different
capacities and is the joy of my life , I do not see me in another way ,
the movie also talks about how love affects us all , that is a good way
, then as said gump , life It is like a box of chocolates you never
know that you won , but you assure you that you will like , well this
last does not say, but certainly is absolutely right , of course is
amazing too technical level this film , I think that this stop on the
hard line of the film "commercial" and art-house films

******
29 June 2015
10
Forrest Gump is a really good movie. I've been to the restaurant in
Galveston where the had t-shirts and all kinds of souvenirs for the
movie. It was sad to me how Bubba died and I loved the ending of the
movie when Forrest meet his son. Forrest acts a little slow in the
movie but he is smart. Forrest is very determined to run he ran a long
long long way. People actually started running with him. He always go
by what his mother told him "life is like a box of chocolates you never
know which one your going to get" Forrest's mother never criticized his
mind when people called him stupid she would say "Stupid is as stupid
does"

******
21 June 2015
9
As much as I love superhero and action movies, Forrest Gump is so far,
the best movie I've seen. I loved how Tom Hanks played the role as
Forrest. It was very moving. Forrest Gump's life can somehow be similar
to every people's life. There will always be challenges and it could be
hard but you can always go through it and succeed in life. That's what
the movie is all about.Another thing is, there will be people that will help or make your life
uneasy but all those people actually have a purpose, in reality and in
the movie. Forrest Gump tells us that "Life is like a box of
chocolates, you'll never what you'll get." Which in reality is also
true. This movie has a lot of life lessons that you'll appreciate.In conclusion, Forrest Gump is such a great film. It has a great story
and lovable characters. I gave it 9 stars because it's not the perfect
movie. Maybe when I watch Pulp Fiction, The Godfather I and II or
Shawshank Redemption, maybe I'll give one of those movies 10 stars.

******
15 June 2015
10
Its one of the best movies I have ever seen. It can change your
perception of looking towards life. The movie was full of suspense,
humor, and of course a really deep story. This is one movie, which
while watching you would pray that it never end. You would probably be
thinking about the movie for days after watching it. No action scenes,
no fairy tale love story and no mesmerizing literary phrases. Just a
normal person who would mesmerize you for next three hours.My sister
and me watched the movie and had a discussion on it for hours, the more
you watch and think about it, the more you will get indulged in it.
this movie will definitely make your day or even a week if you love
movies.Don't miss it, you might regret not watching it ;)

******
15 June 2015
10
This is a great movie, with great acting. I absolutely would recommend
it to anybody looking for a funny but encouraging movie. It will
definitely be a classic forever. This movie has a lot more to offer
than what meats the eye. There are a lot of underlying messages that
you can relay to your life. I have watched this movie several times,
and every time I come away with a deeper meaning and different kind of
understanding on the movie and also life. I believe that movies that
allow the viewer to watch it several times without becoming bored makes
that movie timeless. This movie brings all great qualities into one. It
started with a great concept, went to great writing, great producing,
great directing, and great actors. Everyone did their part to make this
movie spectacular, and it shows.

******
1 June 2015
9
This film is a must-see for anyone and everyone. It teaches viewers
many life lessons and shows the aspects of life through a different
lens. Many walk away from this film wanting to embrace the little
things in life. There is not much to dislike about Forest Gump as a
character. He has such a big heart and because he is slow-witted, he
has a very simplistic yet fulfilling lifestyle. Gump always follows his
heart and does what he believes to be right, regardless of others
judgment. An example of this is all the times he "saved" his best
friend Jenny. There were a few times in the film that Forest didn't
appreciate how a man was speaking to or touching Jenny, and every time
Forest would immediately pry them off of her, despite her requests.
This film also had comedy, drama, action, and emotion, perfectly
blended together to create a great all-American film.

******
25 May 2015
9
This movie, widely renowned as one of the greatest of all time will
forever be a great watch as well as always being relevant to our
society today. It's off-hand mentions of social issues of the sixties
and racial undertones mixed with the comedic pleasure of Tom Hanks
captivates us throughout the movie making it pleasurable to watch over
and over again. Over the course of the movie I felt myself drawn to
Forrest's quest to get the love of his life Jenny. Though many times it
seems as though they may be together, some force separates them until
the end where she ultimately dies. My favorite character is the film is
Bubba, Forrest's friend which he meets in Vietnam but is killed in
battle, Forrest ends up taking over Bubba's shrimping company which
turns wildly successful. This relationship is a perfect example of
Forrest's unconditional love and friendship for multiple characters
throughout the movie causing many tear jerking scenes.

******
21 May 2015
10
This movie, was always an all time favorite of mine, but now since I
have gotten to know my history a little better, this film seems even
more fantastic to me. There are always going to be historical errors,
but there were minimal errors in this movie. This comedic romance/drama
brings you through so many different emotions. Honestly this film
taught me how to be grateful in so many ways, such as how in the
beginning of the film when Forrest goes through his troubles but with
the help of his friend, he overcame adversity and showed true
brilliance in how you should always be happy with what you have. This
story brought us through so many different time periods which made me
realize, that with all the possible little things in life which occur
that make you sad, are only temporary, while love, true love is
something that can never be broken. Forrest was a man of perseverance,
no matter what life threw at him, he always battled through his tough
times. Which taught me to do the same whenever i encounter such bad
times as Forrest did.

******
19 May 2015
10
It's truly a great movie,maybe one of the best I've ever seen,so I
voted 10.And it worth it.If I'd watched it like 10 years ago,I
certainly won't appraise it this much.But when I grows older,it all
seems so...delicate,you might say,and,it's almost unfold the whole life
of Mr. Forrest Gump in front of you.You can see Gump at many historic
moments,and you might think he's a legend,and all the sudden,things
went sideway,the tense atmosphere almost sucks all the air
out.Then,there would be a natural turn take place,and the story moves
to next chapter.The director surely knows his work. Then again,in this
movie,if I rate the story and the screenplay at 9,the cinematography
would be at 8,and the BMG would be at 10.Yes,I think the background
music is the best part of this movie.It fits right in,but take it
out,it's still brilliant.You can easily feel the story behind
it.Especially the famous part "Forrest Gump Suite",it's born for this
movie(despite the fact that it is born for this movie). Oh,holy god,I
think I got too excited and now I don't know what I was writing
about.I'd better stop.

******
18 May 2015
10
If you are thinking of seeing this movie, just do it. The amazing plot
and the use of American history, Forest Gump became a simple
phenomenon. He is the guy who shows the world a whole new way of
understanding life. With many characters which are essential to the
plot and his dumb way of thinking makes you fall in love with the
movie. I totally recommend, and I guarantee that you are not going to
be disappointed by the story. It seems old but the graphics are
essential and will give a amazing look to the movie. Which has many
scenes, that will need this old type graphics. To conclude my review, I
will not give you any more about the movie, just watch it and you will
know what I am talking about

******
15 May 2015
10
If you still have not seen this movie then you are missing out on a
long but entertaining story of a man, Forest Gump, who makes the best
of his life and every moment. Forest is an example of a great man who
comes in a broken package which is often misjudged or treated. The real
reason this movie is worth watching is because I believe most people
can relate to Forest and his life experience. In the movie he
experiences, love, hate, judgement, fear, loneliness, happiness, war,
struggle, and much more is seen and experienced with the people he
interacts with like racism, divorce, abuse, and physical trauma. The
acting of Tom Hanks and all supporting actors is spot on, I was never
pulled from the sense of belief. I truly felt a part of him and felt
what he was going through.

******
14 May 2015
10
i would like to watch it again but its old and i love tom hanks movie a
lot Profanity, obscenities, or spiteful remarks. Time-sensitive
material (i.e. mentions of events, promotional tours, seminars,
lectures, etc.). Short or single-word reviews. We want to know why you
liked or disliked the title. Avoid unannounced spoilers! Please don't
reveal crucial plot elements. If you include a spoiler without warning
readers in advance your name will be added to a blacklist and,
subsequently, all your reviews will be discarded automatically. To
label a spoiler make sure you check the 'contains spoilers' checkbox.
Phone numbers, mail addresses, URLs, email addresses, links to Twitter
or Facebook pages etc. Availability, price, or ordering/shipping
information. Advertising, promotions or solicitations of any kind
Writing in ALL-CAPS! Writing sentences in all-uppercase characters is
considered "SHOUTING" and must be avoided. Content in languages other
than English Any review in violation of these guidelines will not be
posted or may be edited to conform to the guidelines. In addition, IMDb
reserves the right not to post any review for any reason. Additional
notes

******
13 May 2015
10
One of the most incredible movies ever made, period. I love this
masterpiece so much! Tom Hanks delivers one of the most memorable and
terrific performances of all time, as the sweet, funny and brave
Forrest.An unbelievably entertaining film. So much heart and soul is put in to
the story about a nice and really great guy. A great premise; a cool
main character; memorable lines; stunning acting; brilliant dialogue
and clever scenes. What's not to like. This movie hits every molecule
of the word great. Forrest Gump is without a doubt the epitome of a
timeless classic. A must see for all.

******
11 May 2015
10
At first glance, it seems a bit dimwitted Forrest, silly boy, but his
kindness and simple outlook on life to persuade the audience throughout
the film. Here simplicity is not worse it as a shield against
unfriendly looks, she as his own credo. He just loves his mom, just to
protect Jenny. He's just a good friend, he's just helping people. He
just does what he likes. And for those who doubt if they were, then
they evaporate when Forrest is not just a father.The whole life of Forrest -neobyknovenny kaleidoscope of situations in
which it is directly or indirectly affect the course of American
history, and does it unconsciously, and sometimes a child himself. He
taught Elvis to dance and made him famous, he was three times at a
reception at the president, he founded the Apple Computers, Inc and
came up with the famous shirt with smiles and popular slogan Shit
happens.The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of Forrest for me is the
story of an amazing and extraordinary man. A real person. Forrest Gamp-
is the quintessence of the whole person. This film is like no other,
shows our world through the prism of understanding and appreciation of
him as a man who is capable of a different perception, dust proof
problems and cynicism. Not everyone of the people manage to see the
world as it is for Forrest Gump.

******
6 May 2015
8
great movieIt has a great history , worth watching with the whole family .The stories hold you in front of the film, and also make you think
about life .It is now consider an old movie , but it is more than suitable for all
ages and generations.Spectacular film . I think it makes us realize the true values of
life and how we should make good use of the time we have and be happy
in spite of everything and that happiness is us who do and not
something we can or we get !

******
5 May 2015
8
It Was A Good Movie I liked it a lot of fun with the best thing ever I
want you back to the gym with my life is a good idea of the year of
high and I don't know what I do is go to the gym with my life is a good
idea of the year of high and I don't know what I do it for a long day
of my friends are the only way I can get the hang of this month in the
morning to all the way you can do is sleep but I can't believe that the
two men were arrested on suspicion of involvement in a while ago and it
will not be a great way to get my life is so good at it and the rest of
my friends are the only way I can get the hang of this month in the
morning to all the way you can get a follow back please I love you so
much fun to watch it on my phone is a great way to the gym and then you
can do that for the next two weeks ago I had to be the same thing as
the most beautiful thing in life are the only way I can do that for the
next two days after the first half and I have a lot more than one of my
life and death

******
1 May 2015
9
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream.The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not
the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a
thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages between the 1950s
and the 1980s to become involved in every major event in American
history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his
shields.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The
movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of
a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are.
Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role.<3 TOM HANKS <3

******
1 May 2015
10
Robert Zemeckis made some great films, but this one is the best, in
terms of plot, cast, soundtrack and cinematic. Well, to begin the plot
was very well written (even thought I didn't read the novel by Winston
Groom), I haven't finished to read the script by Eric Roth, but I am
really enjoying it. The cast was great, with the stars Tom Hanks (wich
I think it was one of the best 90's actor) and Robin Wright was
extremely good represented. The best acting from Tom Hanks in my
opinion, better than "Saving Private Ryan" and "The Green Mile". The
soundtrack of the movie was very well chosen and that gave some magic
effect to it. The And then the cinematic, there were really interesting
moments, the ones like the war in Vietnam and the feather are some
examples. In overall, this film is great, this is one of the films you
should see before you die! Of course there is some people that hate it,
but there are always people who hate something, I hope you enjoy
watching this movie!

******
30 April 2015
10
I mean-yeah, I will not tell that I watched a film- I would rather say
I felt it. Though that 'Statue of Liberty' or 'President Carter' plot holes are
quite 'eyebrow shriving'- some, or little boy like me doesn't sit or
lie to watch a film for finding mistakes. He wants the full josh, the
full energy, enthusiasm whatever you say. The film just poured me with
full satisfaction of watching a film.Humour, sadness, action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one.I'm not a stone cold, heartless villain, but it takes a lot to make me
cry when I watch a movie. Bambi's mother, I couldn't care less. Jimmy
Stewart in, "Oh, what a wonderful life," - yeah right! The Lion King,
when Mufasa bites the big one - on the verge.But seriously - I bawled my big brown eyes out, on several occasions in
this film. A real tear-jerker, and a wonderful character, played to
perfection by Tom Hanks. Every bit as worthy for the Oscar as Rooney
was to win the Premiership in 2007.I cannot say it enough: This is THE film of all time. Watch it, and
you'll see.In one word- Loved it much!!!!!! (Sorry I spoke 3.)

******
27 April 2015
9
Forrest Gump, while not intelligent, has accidentally been present at
many historic moments, but his true love, Jenny Curran, eludes him. I
started to watch this movie without so much enthusiasm because I had
never seen before, I wanted to be who doesn't like a movie which
everyone loves, just to be different. I guessed that was really easy
make a good movie about a not smart guy with some mind's problem, it's
a story that everyone would like. Instead I found this movie
marvellous, gorgeous, interesting, charming... When I have an idea I usually keep it until the end of the movie
instead in this case something changed. I really loved this movie,
besides the popular sentences: "Run, Forrest, Run!" that is smart I
enjoyed everything. I liked the choices for the songs during the whole
movie, I heard Sweet Home Alabama, Free Bird, Imagine... And when
Forrest met John Lennon and they began to talk about China and
references about the words of Imagine songs, I laughed so much. Yes,
because this is a very important movie, in several moments it was funny
but in others there were deep meaning, just everything that Forrest's
mom taught to him and said worth the price ticket. Besides this movie
talks about how is difficult to be such a different person in our world
and above all how solve this problem because Forrest Gump, with the
every problem of the world became a promoted student, football player,
soldier, captain, and above all he became such a good friend, husband
and dad!

******
26 April 2015
10
WHAT I LIKED1. Tom Hanks gives an absolutely terrific performance as Forrest Gump.
The rest of the cast also gave great performances, especially Gary
Sinise as Lieutenant Dan.2. The amusing ways real events were linked to Forrest's life.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKENothingVERDICTA fun and touching drama.10/10 - Masterpiece.

******
23 April 2015
10
One of my all time favorite films! One that never gets old, and you see
a little more wisdom each time you watch! My favorite childhood
memories with my father would be to watch this film and ask questions
throughout the whole thing (which I see now is annoying) haha ooops.
Forrest Gump was an inspiring man that shows a different perspective or
an altered state of reality thats chilling, yet inspiring to both
children and adults! If you haven't watched, this is a must see! I
would love to sit around like old times and watch the film again. I
plan to watch it and actually research more in depth with the symbolic
meanings depicted throughout the film!

******
22 April 2015
7
the first time I ever watched this film was when I was in year 7
history class, and I've being watching it ever since, I think its a
great film that shows how anything is possible and also how people can
judge others really quickly. but also I think that the film is a really
good film to watch and I would recommend this film to others, as its
one of my all time favourite and that if you haven't watched it sit
yourself down and watch it, because you are missing out on a great film
So do watch this film because it also learns you about allot of
cultural history in America and its just a great film to watch if your
on your own or even with the family.

******
21 April 2015
10
Quite simply, the greatest film ever made. I am a big fan of Tom Hanks
and I have enjoyed pretty much all of his movies over the years but it
was a close call between this and the green mile but I think forest
gump is my favorite Hanks film of all time.It's such a nice story that is told in a clever way making you feel
like a child once again, the main character played by Hanks is lovable,
you can't help but hope for the best for him and simply just want to
reach out and tell him everything will be OK. The movie has a realistic
feel even thought it's fictional but this is because of how it goes
though real time events, the main reasons why I love this movie so much
is because it's like reading a book the story line takes you to another
time and other place and the only bad thing is when it ends and you
bounce back to reality.

******
19 April 2015
10
In my opinion, this is one of the best movies ever made. The way
Forrest go through his life and how spontaneously he solves his
problems is something that everybody has to see. Contrary to his best
friend and wife Jenny Curran, there's actually no problems for him,
everything is gonna be how it is gonna be.As his mother always says: "Life is like a box of chocolate, you never
know what you gonna get", he follows that sentence and succeeds to
become the best of the best, a person who everyone else wants to be. On
the other hand his undervalued, but very clear and positive mind tends
to get something else, a peaceful and happy life with his future wife
Jenny.It seemed impossible but again as his mother said, "Stupid is as stupid
does", he was a successful at everything he was trying to do because of
his unstoppable persistence. He didn't think if he could or couldn't do
that, he just did that. Because of that, this is one of the most
inspiring movies ever filmed and has absolutely deserved my 10 stars
rating.

******
18 April 2015
10
This movie has it all. The actors and actresses were terrific led by
strong performances by Tom Hanks, Gary SInese and Robin Wright. The
most admirable character in the film is the protagonist Forrest. HIs
unconditional love for Jenny, who continuously lets him down, is
encouraging to see. Forrest is not a smart man but he manages to do so
many great things with his life, from winning the medal of honor to
being a successful shrimp boat captain. Forrest teaches us to think
less and to stop worrying about every detail, to just go with the flow
and good things may happen. Although Forrest has many good moments in
his life he also faces great adversity. He loses his friend Bubba, his
Mother and Jenny continuously deserts him. When Forrest hits his
breaking point he just runs away from it all and goes on a cross
country journey. Throughout his run he learns that you can'y move
forward until you forget about the past and move on. Overall this is an
extremely entertaining film that all should see

******
13 April 2015
8
I thought that the movie Forest Gump was a very good movie that helped
show what the times were like in the 50s and 60s. It was a very
interesting movie let you see all the important events that took time
in this place. It was also cool how they used Forest Gump and showed
his views on it and how he was able to overcome a lot of the difficult
tasks such as when he went to Vietnam. My favorite scenes were when he
played the ping pong game and also when he went to war in Vietnam. That
part was very good because it showed what it was like during that time.
The movie was also very good because it provided a moral lesson and
showed the struggles Forest Gump had to overcome and it thought you to
be kind to people and accept them for who they are. Overall this movie
was very good and it provided looks of historical details

******
2 April 2015
8
A long overdue movie experience for me.This is a great movie with another remarkable interpretation by Tom
Hanks.He IS the movie.It's like a fairy tale where we can see that in spite of our
shortcomings, we can always be great or a part of something great (even
if we can't understand it).It is also a love story of a man chasing after his true love his entire
life. On his route he finds friendship, fortune and the acknowledgment
of his abilities by his friends (and not only those).In the end, without knowing it, he shows true compassion for his loved
one, saving her. But in his mind she is saving him, like she always did
throughout his life.It's an excellent movie in every way.

******
1 April 2015
9
What a beautiful film! Capturing innocence, love and family. "Forrest
Gump" elicits a tone of love - between a mother and son, and ultimately
between a man and a woman; which results in a character development
from a shy, young boy to a determined young man. Furthermore, the film
conveys an underlying message that no matter who you are, you can do
anything. While Forrest is not the most intelligent of men, he finds
that he is more than capable, in the historic events that he finds
himself in. With each event, gradually building him up as a better
person. A truly stoic man. In addition, a beautiful soundtrack, goes
hand-in-hand with this beautiful film. "Run Forrest, run!"

******
28 March 2015
10
First of all, this movie can't be compared to any other movie. The
duration of the movie is very good. It keeps the story to an exciting
case.No nudity in the movie which I see one of Hanks characteristics,
you watch a great story fits all ages. I see it as a perfect movie,
integration is found in drama,music play,emotions,crying,laughing and
of course in Hanks performance. In this movie you'll smile,cry and get
inspired at the same time. The sequence of events and storytelling is
amazing I've never experienced it in any other movie.Whatever your mood
is, you'll enjoy watching it any time.Really it's a classy one. When I
first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now.Because it's
underrated by people but after I watched it, I found out I was
mistaken.

******
21 March 2015
9
Many of the movies I watched but I crowned as the most inspiring
movies, MOST TOUCHING, MOST Sensational. I am very motivated and
thrilled after seeing this movie. Many sentences are motivated and wise
in this film, among others: "Death is just a part of Life" is death is
seen as a loss in life but, that's life. Death is just a part of life.
We can not resist even though we do not want. That's why everyone's
life would be dead. "Life Was Like A Box Chocolates. You Never Know
You're Gonna Get" is full of life mystery.Seperti brown box. You can
get delicious chocolate and brown slightly sour. Brown hard and soft
brown. Similarly life. There is a life full of obstacles, hindrances
some are unbelievably loud and unpleasant chill did not even have to
work hard has been a lot of money. All is full of mystery.

******
21 March 2015
10
This review like many of mine will be a ponderous piece without any
structure or train of thought.The feather falls. This is a beautiful tale of the life of a simple boy
in a complex world. This story captures everything that there is to
love about the world when stripped down to its most basic form. The
social commentary on the complex social structures that have developed
over the millenia, how would they seem to someone who was born for
another time. From why we run, fight, play sports like ping-pong, rebel
for the sake of rebellion, and even do the same things again and again
have been explored in this movie. In this age of stress, over-thinking
and complications, one big thought was how being a simple boy with an
IQ of 75 was the greatest strength Forrest had and his clarity of mind
was never a roadblock in what he felt like doing. It goes to show how
far the upbringing of someone would shape their values and leave you
craving their simplicity for yourself.Not being an American most of the funny stuff had somewhat little sense
to me, however I have enough of a context to be able to appreciate the
big historical events events that kept popping up in the movie and boy
were they put in seamlessly in the narration.Finally what can I say about Tom Hanks but that I can't imagine anyone
other than him bringing out the emotions of someone like Forrest Gump,
it is a biased view because I do not know anyone like Forrest Gump but
I would like to think that Mr. Gump is what they would be like. That's
all I have to say about this. Feather floats again.

******
19 March 2015
10
No matter how many times I watch this movie, it still manages to move
me and take me on an adventure. I find myself always getting lost in
Tom Hanks acting, it's not Tom, it's Forrest, which is something I find
difficult to see when watching other actors. As a viewer you feel as if
you're one of the people sitting with Forrest at the bus stop,
listening to his compelling story. As the viewer, as you go on this
journey with Forrest you're on a roller coaster of emotions, from
happiness, sadness, anger, frustration, if a movie can make you feel
all these different things, that's what I see as a successful movie, a
film is supposed to connect with it's audience on an emotional level,
and this movie does that on a number of levels. I'd recommend this as a must watch movie to anyone.

******
18 March 2015
10
Forrest Gump, directed by Robert Zemeckis, is an inspirational movie
that can be for any audience. The following actors: Tom Hanks, Robin
Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, and Sally Field are all
excellent actors who form this movie into the classic that it deserves
to be. Forrest Gump, acted by Tom Hanks, is a character that has a
journey of a life time. Living through many events, like the war in
Vietnam, his character changes, however is love for Jenny will never
change. He, Forrest Gump, is an inspirational man. How he cares for
everyone he meets/ lives with: his mother, Jenny, Bubba,and Lieutenant
Dan is something every man should do. Watching this movie for the first
time was heartwarming.The scene that is most memorable for me is when Forrest Gump is acting
as a hero within the war as a soldier. Following his lover's advice of
"To run Forrest run" he took to action accordingly. However, he
couldn't leave his best friend, Bubba behind. Searching for Bubba, he
saves many other men along the way, including Lieutenant Dan. He
receives the congressional medal of honor for his service. However, he
didn't see the "reward" as the most important thing in his life, but
rather Jenny is. That is why Forrest Gump gave her his medal of honor.This movie is highly recommended to all people around the globe. I give
this a 10 out of 10 for great acting, create directing, and a great,
inspirational story.

******
10 March 2015
10
awesome movie, awesome story. i was very impressed. i would like to
watch it again today. I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after
seeing how Hanks makes him into a person so dignified. so
straight-ahead. The performance is a breathtaking balancing act between
comedy and sadness. in a story rich in big laughs and quiet truths.
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream.

******
18 February 2015
10
Forrest Gump is Just a perfect movie ! It is perfect from all aspects :
nice Editing , good filming , wonderful acting , efficient music ,
astounding Script and even good visual effects (for the time that it
have made). i say perfect because it has all humor, sadness, action,
drama and lots of messages in it.In fact , The more you understand about this movie , the more you like
it and you don't even get tired of seeing it again and again.No film ever has touched me more than this (even force me to cry!) Of
course acting and music help to improve it's efficiency.This awesome movie is about an innocent man who represents how the
world should be: he's loyal, humble, honest, he would never cheat or
lie. He does everything with good heart and reaches success at the most
important tasks of life.

******
18 February 2015
10
This film is easily one of the best films ever made. Robert Zemeckis
and Eric Roth are geniuses with what they have come up with, with this
film. The storyline of a young simple lad growing up listening to every
word his "Mama" says and trying to make friends as any other child
would, but he was different because of his back was bent so he had to
wear braces on his legs. But there was one little girl that was
friendly to him 'Jenny' she would stick up for him. Which turns into a
life-long friendship. And as you find out as the story goes on it shows
that even people with a low IQ can do very well in life. This film also
has a very important and very true phrase at the end "Life is like a
box of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna get" this is a
lovely film for anyone really. You will be crying at some points,
smiling at some points and some points you will be shouting at the
screen. In all it is as My summary says 'The best film ever made!'.

******
13 February 2015
10
One of the best movies i ever seen! You invest a lot of time in your
blog, making sure it fits your personal brand and style. And a big part
of making it your own comes from what you call it and where it lives.
Blogger has long let you host your blog on a custom domain, so that you
can give it any URL you choose. To make that process even easier,
starting today, we're integrating Blogger directly with Google Domains,
allowing you to purchase a custom domain for your blog right from
Blogger with just a few clicks.If your blog is itching for a new home, you can grab one via Google
Domains by popping open Blogger and heading to the Publishing section
of your blog's Settings tab. Adding pages to your blog can be a great
way to organize content - like 'About me' or 'Advertise' sections. To
make managing pages easier, we redesigned the 'Pages' tab in the
Blogger dashboard to make it look and feel more like something you're
already familiar with: managing posts.

******
10 February 2015
10
I am a big fan of Tom Hanks and I have enjoyed pretty much all of his
movies and I think forest gump is my favorite Hanks film of all time.It's such a nice story that is told in a clever way making you feel
like a child once again, the main character played by Hanks is lovable,
you can't help but hope for the best for him and simply just want to
reach out and tell him everything will be OK. The movie has a realistic
feel even thought it's fictional but this is because of how it goes
though real time events, the main reasons why I love this movie so much
is because it's like reading a book the story line takes you to another
time and other place and the only bad thing is when it ends and you
bounce back to reality.

******
8 February 2015
9
Forrest Gump is a film that portrays the life of Forrest Gump through
flashbacks and voice over narration. We meet Forrest Gump, a slow man
perfectly portrayed by Tom Hanks, at the beginning of the film when he
introduces himself to the first person who sits next to him on a bench
at a bus stop. It is from this point that we begin the journey of his
life starting with his "philosophical" mother Mrs. Gump played by Sally
Fields and his unfortunate need for leg braces. From here Forrest takes
the bus to school for the first time and we are introduced to his
childhood friend and love at first sight, Jenny Curran played by Robin
Wright. In college, Jenny and Forrest go their separate ways.
Throughout Forrest Gump's life he experiences and causes many
historical moments such as inspiring Elvis Presley's dance moves,
meeting multiple presidents, and uncovering the Watergate Scandal.
Although, these are monumental experiences, it seems he is somehow
always drawn back to Jenny. In the film, they are brought back together
several times. A significant time being when Forrest loses his mother
and Jenny stays with him. The morning after their night together, she
once again leaves him. In the end, we are brought back to Forrest Gump,
the narrator, in present day looking for Jenny in response to a letter
she sent him. The result of their one night together, left them with a
son, Forrest played by Haley Joel Osment. Jenny and Forrest Gump are
finally united and get married before she dies of an unknown virus. The
film ends perfectly on a scene much like the one where Forrest first
met Jenny, but with Little Forrest getting on the bus for school for
his very first time.The theme of this film seems to be torn between drama and comedy.
However, the main focus is the endurance and true love that Forrest has
for Jenny. Although, he is always there for her when she needs him, she
always ends up leaving him and going her own way. This fact does not
seem to deter his love for her and every time she comes back into his
life, he embraces it.A scene that reinforces this unbreakable love that Forrest has for
Jenny is when they are reunited again in Washington. They are having a
conversation before Jenny leaves him once again, which she has done
multiple times before this scene. Even though she is preparing to leave
him again, Forrest gives her his medal of honor and tells her that the
reason he is good to her is because she is his girl. And then she was
gone from his life again.Another film that is quite a different story but relates to the
endurance of true love is The Notebook. In this film a young man tries
his hardest to be with a young woman, before they are separated. Years
later they are brought back together, but she is with another man. When
they finally end up with one another she ends up with Alzheimer's. He
spends the remaining days of their lives together reading to her and
trying to bring her back to him.Music has a way of affecting our emotional response to a film. In
Forrest Gump the use of music is very effective especially when
changing scenes. When Jenny hitches a ride with a stranger instead of
staying with Forrest, the musical score is soft and almost sad.
However, the musical score playing when they see each other again in
Washington is blissful and romantic. Another technique used in this
film is voice-over narration. This narration done by Forrest emphasizes
his thoughts and feelings of Jenny even though she is absent from a
majority of the film. The use of this narration conveys his slow point
of view on his life and the things that happened in it, but also speeds
the passage of time along. The film itself is already a little longer
than necessary, so voice-over used for narration is important in moving
the film along at a good pace but creating an impact on his way of
thinking.Overall, this film holds your interest in its creativity and
alterations of historical events. The intermittent connection of
Forrest and Jenny's lives surpasses decades. In the end, even though
Jenny has an unknown virus, Forrest marries her and takes care of her
until death do they part. This ultimately paints the picture of the
true love that Forrest had for Jenny and how it endured the test of
time.

******
5 February 2015
10
Forrest Gump is quite a unique character in a movie not to mention real
life. Trying to explain what Forrest Gump is a movie would be a
challenge. The movie seems like a mix of different genres, there is
comedy, drama, action, and its also a story about coming to age. The
many different genres of this film are probably a main reason while
this film is number 13 on IMDb top 250 movies of all time. It caters to
so many different audiences, that anybody can find someway to relate to
this film and it's message. The screenplay which was wrote by Eric Roth
has the depth of modern movies and its protagonist, played by Tom
Hanks, is a very honest and wholesome man who happens to have a low IQ
of 75, this film shows him growing up between the 1950s and the 1980s
and ends up becoming a part of every major thing that happened during
that time in American history. He overcomes all of this turmoil with
nothing but honesty and sayings that his mom always told him.The film
is more of a look back at American history, through the narration and
eyes of a mentally handicapped man.Tom Hanks is probably the only actor
that could have pulled this off, he is amazing actor which has been a
variety of films he isn't one of those actors that is only really good
at playing certain parts. The theme of Forrest Gump is to teach a
lesson about overcoming adversity no matter what challenges that you
face, you never know the amazing places that your life will take you.
We see that this film centers on man who isn't the brightest bulb in
the closet. But he has many other amazing qualities that allow him many
opportunities in his life. For instance, there is a part in the film
the doctors thought Forrest was never going to walk without the help of
special braces. He defies the odds by simplifying trying to run away
from some bullies, and finds out that his legs are just fine. They make
Forrest's legs are a big part of this film because of his incredible
speed and endurance this allows him to go to college and played for the
Alabama Crimson Tide. He even said the military was easy all you had to
do was listen to what you are told and say yes sir. It is not that easy
for most people, trust me I did 8 year in the Army. The whole film is
about overcoming adversity, another example of the theme, when Forrest
becomes a world class ping-pong champion He proves that you don't need
to be very smart to be successful life, all you need is a little can do
attitude and some elbow grease. He did all this and the only person
that believed in him was his mother played by Sally Fields and Jenny
played by Robin Wright. Robert Zemeckis, the director, did a great job
making Forrest do his own narration, you felt that you were in the head
of Forrest the whole time going on the journey of his life with him.
This was a much better way of delivering the story then hearing it from
a third party narrator. He also does some brilliant camera angles that
show Forrest's emotions during much of the film, you can see Gump's
emotions as he lives this events over again in his life, which helps
you feel more connected to the protagonist. In conclusion, Forrest Gump
is a great film when you need a reminder that anything is possible and
can be overcome with just a different outlook and some hard work. It
doesn't matter what type of genre is your favorite this movie will
instantly become on of your favorite classics that you will never get
tired of no matter how many times that you watch it. This movie is an
easy 5 stars for me, it has so many simple yet complex elements in the
story and the character development. You will surely not be
disappointed.

******
31 January 2015
9
Friday is the last day for The Story on WUNC. The program's host, Dick
Gordon, is leaving the station after eight years with the nationally
distributed show. He spoke with WUNC/North Carolina Public Radio's Eric
Hodge Friday morning.ERIC HODGE: Good morning Dick.DICK GORDON: Hi, Eric.HODGE: So, why the move, Mr. Gordon?GORDON: Well, it's never one thing. It's always a bunch of different
things, but what led the way for me is the fact that my mother is
getting on in years, we are feeling a long way away from our daughters,
who both make their home in Canada, and it just seemed like a good time
to make a decision to make that kind of switch. I mean, you never want
to walk away from something that is as much fun as The Story just for a
frivolous reason, but change is not a bad thing for me and we'll see
where it leads us.HODGE: What do you think you've achieved over these eight years?GORDON: Wow, that's hard to judge at this point, because I'm still kind
of right in the middle of one foot out the door and one foot in the
door, but when I look over my shoulder, I'm actually really proud of
the body of work that my producers and this station put together by
finding a way of giving dignity, intelligence, and some kind of
emphasis to the stories of ordinary people instead of, I think, doing
what we do too often in radio, and that is simply turning our
microphones toward the important people - because we think they're
important - or the people who have a quick opinion to offer. We kind of
shut out the stories that matter most about what's going on on our
street or in our town, in our state, in our country, and that was just
a tremendous opportunity that we had to work at doing that. Sometimes
we got it dead on. Sometimes we missed the mark, but because

******
20 January 2015
9
An excellent film about love,hope and strength-both physical and
mental.Forrest Gump is a magical character and his innocence is moving
mountains.He has the ability to change everyone's lives.The film shows
that everything is possible and that love is all you need in order to
make the difference.So simple!But though Forrest is simple,he is also
complex.His honesty and kindness lack from other movie characters.The
film balances between comedy and drama but truth remains till the
end.It is also deeply sentimental but on the same time,exposes
Forrest's character.You'll be amazed by it's simplicity and the message
of the film is that words like love,hope and trust have still meaning
and value!

******
19 January 2015
10
It's great to be born a Forrest Gump or copy him as a life-long
example. If achieved, then you won't have a thing for new tighter
living conditions, would not kill yourself over trivial stuff, let go
of the past before moving on, and take the best out of yourself in
every situation. It's easier to decide and it's simpler to seize the
moments. You'll do everything solely from the bottom your heart and
walk, talk, and live merely for the sake of things.Forrest Gump turned out to be a war hero, a successful businessman, a
great athlete, and an inspirational figure with a below 80 intelligence
quotient (IQ). That is what almost everyone possesses, but wouldn't put
the right amount of it in the right place so as, even though hundreds
of people are looking up to you, to just stop running WHENEVER you
don't feel like it and GO HOME!

******
17 January 2015
10
A fantastic heartwarming comedy.  A brilliant journey that feels like your with forest gump all the way.I love the way forest gump takes you with him on his journey through
the years of his life and the different things he gets up to.Also the way the film goes through different platforms in life.Overall this film is fantastic and heart thumping from beginning till
the end.If you haven't seen it, see it  out of 

******
14 January 2015
10
Once upon a time...This is the feeling I get when I think about Forrest
Gump. With a narrator the movie becomes magic. Seeing the world through
Forrest Gumps eyes is truly a fairy tale. Overcoming difficulties as a child and growing strong from it. Seeing
the world. Meeting famous people like presidents, rock stars and other
celebrities. Starting a big company that take the world by storm.The actors are fantastic. Tom Hanks is brilliant as Forrest Gump. Gary
Sinise as Lieutenant Dan Taylor is really hard-boiled. Sally Field and
Robin Wright are a delight. Remember whatever happens in your life just
go out and run, just run and everything will feel better.

******
12 January 2015
6
I really don't rate Tom Hanks as an actor, I think he's highly
inconsistent, and often his acting style is off-putting to me. Now put
Tom Hanks doing a stupid voice, playing a ridiculous character, taking
up all the screen time, in a really long film. It's like torture. I was
willing this film towards the end. I didn't feel any genuine drama, the
Vietnam scenes especially leaving me cold. What I liked was the Zemeckis stylistic touches. It's got a nice
whimsical feel, and just enough lighthearted humour to keep it afloat.
For this film to work on any real level though, you would have to
connect with the central character, which I just can't do. It's a very
average story really focusing on one character who has very little
personality. In terms of film making, it's just OK.Six out of Ten.

******
10 January 2015
9
This is a very endearing story, very well written and performed. This
is a movie you can definitely watch more than once. You get to follow
Forrest through his life, ups and downs. You really get to bond with
this character and his loved ones, and even though it may appear a bit
too much, you won't care. This movie does live up to its standard, and
I went in with very high expectations. You will laugh, you may shed a
few tears - and you will definitely root for Forrest. It's a beautiful
movie, and I think it sends out a message. You learn to appreciate your
life and what you have been given. Fantastic storytelling, fantastic
actors and so on. It will be worth your time.

******
9 January 2015
10
Over the years, as peoples' memory fades, you'll see some critic
somewhere say crazy things like Tom Hanks didn't deserve the Oscar for
this. Usually it's a critic talking about the greatness of Shawshank
Redemption or Pulp Fiction. Hey, it was a tough year at the Oscars! But
Tom deserved it. Forrest Gump was simply amazing. There were a couple
of the cut in scenes with Forrest and whichever person from real
footage that didn't make 100% sense dialogue wise, like his interaction
with Gerald Ford or John Lennon, but the movie is fun, funny, and
heartwarming. When Forrest asks about his son, "Is he smart, or is he
like me?" It'll bring tears to your eyes. Well, it does to me anyway!
www.griswolddad.com

******
8 January 2015
7
ho did he ever manage to enlist in the Army? okay, okay...we have some of the best movie making ever, in the first hour or
so...then we veer off into 7 other movies.the character has an IQ of 75 but his intellect does not account for
his, shall we say, humanitarian IQ. are we supposed to wonder...is he
such a moral, courageous man because he does not deal at all in adult
social complexities and just reacts? is he a "savant", in that as
"dumb" as he is, intellectually, he can accomplish things that
"average" people cannot, simply because they *think* too much? I
wondered if his running ability is half "transferred" skill (what he
lacks in real brainpower he gains in braunpower?).we are given not one porterhouse steak here but two...meaning, too much
is too much. Like Fred Blassie once said, you see women wrestling two
nites in a row, by the third?.....nah. should the Director/Writer
simply presented the greatest human running machine in history > cannot
possibly break a sweat, stopping his run only for food and nature
calls? well, he is the world's greatest runner, a War Hero, a
multi-million dollar entrepreneur...and he's got a hot hippie chick n
the back burner, too! I think the creators referenced MARATHON MAN,
BEING THERE, that DUSTIN Hoffman movie where he plays the "counting"
marvel.the two disc set does not include the deleted footage where Gump meets
Jesus. :)

******
4 January 2015
10
This has been one of the best movies I have ever seen. It's a powerful
movie with great acting that you will remember for the rest of your
life. No matter how many times I have sat down and watched it it keeps
me entertained as if I've never seen it before. If your looking for a
movie that will be a tear jerker and make you laugh and go through all
the emotions at least once then this is the movie for you. With every
new movie that comes out today I have still never watched anything that
can even compare to this movie. This will forever be one of my all time
movies and doubt anything will ever come close to beating this. So I
would recommend checking this movie out and I can guarantee you will
not be disappointed.

******
2 January 2015
10
Forrest Gump is a 1994 classic film. The movie features Tom Hanks
playing the main role of Forrest himself. The story is about a young
boy who has been placed with braces on his legs and struggles with
walking and running. Forrest is often picked on for his disability.
Forrest makes friends with a girl named Jenny on the bus. Forrest is
then chased by a group of boys and must tries to flee from them, with
encouragement from Jenny. While running away from the group of children
Forrest's braces popped off of his legs. The film raised aids
awareness. The film is also educational and is often played as an
example in school History classes. The movie touched on Historical
places and events. This movie shows that even the most disadvantaged
can achieve greatness. The character of Forrest set a goal and achieved
it. He also experienced hardships such as his mothers quite speedy
death. This movie is very inspirational and I personally would
recommend people to watch it.

******
26 December 2014
8
This movie will please nearly any crowd. This is the one movie that I
believe really has it all. Some films and series try to follow suit,
but the one that does it best apart from Gump is the Pirates of the
Caribbean series, which is primarily an action series anyways. The
different events of the back half of the 20th century hit many
different areas of life and many different genres of film. There is
plenty of humor, bits of excitement, romance placed throughout, moments
of sadness and inspiration, and a pretty good amount of history. The fact that it is told out of the intellectually challenged Forrest
Gump is nice. The audience still see the events from its own individual
eyes, and some of those watching may have their own memories of the
given points in history, but we also see the events in Forrest's
simplified version. He's a great character because, while not very
smart, he is an incredibly nice person that sees no reason to show
malice towards anyone. So even with his impairment, he is really one
step ahead of the world all of the time. Another great quality that he
has is his influence. People now use his name to identify someone who
has lots of important events happen around him, which is
understandable. But he also happens to the events around him, if that
makes sense. No historical event prompted him to do his three year run,
develop his mad ping-pong skills, or be a great football player.The history involves more than just events, for we see the progression
of culture and everyday life in the scattered glimpses we get of
Jenny's life. She pretty much is a prime example of what not to do in
the seventies, or really any stage of life. Her character is shown as
free spirited, impulsive, whimsical, restless, and even stupid
sometimes, but at the same time good-hearted deeper down. The other main characters are Mrs. Gump, Bubba, and Lieutenant Dan.
Mrs. Gump is obviously the reason that Forrest is such a positively
influential person. Bubba is very simpleminded life Forrest, but is a
very good friend, as Forrest points out very blatantly. Lieutenant Dan
is an exceedingly grumpy and pessimistic guy who lives off of his
sorrows. In some ways, he's kind of what a mean Forrest would look like
since they've both lost people and have some kind of impairment. What
sets them apart is that they deal with their problems differently.It's clear that Forrest impacts all of the people listed above, but
also the people he talks to at the bus stop and the other small people
he meets along the way. Examples could include the bumper sticker and
tee-shirt salesmen he meets on his run, the anti-war group, and his
Alabama teammates.The technical execution is nothing special, but doesn't need to be
either. If the whole movie took place in Vietnam, I would say that the
war themed special effects should have been improved from their current
state, but since there was only about five minutes of battle, the
low-quality explosions were acceptable. The acting was spectacular from
every character, big and small. This fact is perhaps what makes the
movie as great as it is, because the characters are already well
written so to pair it with great acting is like cinematic explosion.I would recommend this to just about anyone, but it's best to go into
the movie with a pretty good knowledge of history from 1950 to 1980.
It's a good go-to movie when a large group is deciding on a movie to
watch together. So if you haven't seen it, strongly consider adding it
to your shelf or online movie library. Overall Rating: 8.4/10.

******
17 December 2014
10
this movie was one of the powerful movies i've ever seen. You feel such
a connection to Forrest and u can hate the Jenny treats him at first. I
balled out crying when jenny died but Forrest turns out to be a very
good daddy to little ForrestWhen Forrest first goes off to war to Vietnam he finds his forever
friend and i cried when Bubba died in his arms and his last words were
"Forrest, I wanna go home" oh that got meBut this movie is also very funny at times, like when he says
"Lieutenant Dan I brought you some ice cream" and then Lieutenant Dan
throws the ice cream in his bed pan.I also love the scene in the beginning when Forrest breaks his braces
and starts running and u just feel the courage that he had and it makes
u feel all good inside and it's just such an inspiring movie

******
16 December 2014
10
So many famous Quotes came from that film: "My momma always said, life
is like a box of chocolate, you never know what you're going to get,
Stupid is as a stupid does, Run, Forrest! Run!" For a couple of
examples.The film had so many historical actions like J.F. Kennedy's Murder,
Vietnam War, Elvis. Just right amount of action not too much or too
little of humor but just the right amount of humor. The plot was
awesome, you newer knew what the movie had planned next (unless you
have seen the film couple of times) for your entertainment. I
absolutely loved this film tom hanks was perfect for the job.

******
16 December 2014
10
One of the most touching, educative, and beautiful movies of all time.
A beautiful story about a boy that weren't the smartest in his class,
but still made really far. It all begin when Forrest learned to run.
After that he was running all the time. He even made it to the
All-America football team. Forrest' best-friend Jenny was
understandable for Forrest but she was traveling all the time.This movie is also full of historical references. For example Vietnam
war, Dsegregation of Alabama university and the assassination of J.F
Kennedy.I couldn't get my eyes off of this movie since it was so touching and
full of funny and action-packed scenes. They were one of the best two
hours of my life watching this movie, and everyone should definitely
watch this.

******
5 December 2014
10
Epic story of the life of a historical character who has gone through
several historical facts and with his stupid way just taking letter in
various situations. For me is the best film of all time with a
fantastic performance of Tom Hanks. Forrest Gump, while not
intelligent, has accidentally been present at many historic moments,
but his true love, Jenny Curran, eludes him. Forrest Gump is a simple
man with a low I.Q. but good intentions. He is running through
childhood with his best and only friend Jenny. For me is won the
Oscar's: Best Actor in a Leading Role Tom Hanks, Best Director Robert
Zemeckis. Run Forrest, Run Forrest!!!

******
5 December 2014
10
When I hear people say that they've never watched Forrest Gump before,
it makes me want to cry for them. They do not know what they are
missing. It has history, drama, romance, and comedy put in one great
movie. If you have not seen this movie, I strongly suggest you rent it,
stream it, buy it, or whatever you must do to watch this movie. Just
like Mean Girls, Forrest Gump will always be quoted, especially from
me. I don't recall what I got for my first Christmas and I don't know
when I went on my first outdoor picnic...but I do remember the first
time I saw the greatest movie. That's all I have to say about
that...GUMP!

******
27 November 2014
8
20 years after "Forrest Gump" came out, I decided to rewatch this one
and it was even better than what remembered from watching it the first
time. The film won 6 Academy awards in 1995, including Best Picture,
Best Director (Robert Zemeckis, "Back to the Future"-trilogy, "Cast
Away" again with Hanks later on) and Best Actor (2nd win in a row for
Hanks after "Philadelphia"). And even if it lost "Best Score" to "The
Lion King", the music, especially the main theme, is nothing short of
brilliant. It starts right away as we watch a feather fly towards the
film's central character. Visually and acoustically a feast from minute
one.Forrest sits on a bench waiting for the bus and tells the other people
who are waiting his story. Thank God he did not know that he could just
walk to Jenny, otherwise we may have never found out about his stories.
And as diverse as Forrest's life is, as diverse are also the reactions
from those people. Some sit quietly, others accuse him of being a liar
and the old lady finally is captivated by his story. The interesting
thing is that Gump gets out the photo as evidence not before the man
(who accuses him of lying) leaves. He could have proved it easily, but
he has nothing to prove to anybody. This is the frame of the story. The
real action takes place in the stories Gump tells. Some true emotional
highlights are included: Bubba's death and the funeral eulogy to Jenny
(great HI. reference by the way) at the end. Of course, all the moments
with his son (played by the very young Haley Joel Osment) are very much
worth watching too. And then there is Gary Sinise who was pretty much
on par with Hanks during their comedic and dramatic moments together.
He did not won the Oscar, but was at least as deserving as Landau and
Jackson. With his character, early on, you could never say if he would
develop into a friend to Gump or stay/become a big antagonist. Finally,
it turned out to be the former. When they have prostitutes one night at
their place, it becomes truly clear for the very first time. Gump
serves as a great role model to Sinise's character for all he achieved
despite his limitations.This is not the greatest movie ever made, but there is a certain charm
to it that makes it so unique in movie history, possibly because the
central character is at least as unique. And finally, there is the
Forrest-Jenny love story which is sweet from start to finish and one of
the main reasons why this film will make you laugh, will make you cry
and will make you feel for Forrest for its almost 2.5-hour . And even
in the almost impossible case that you will not remain interested in
Forrest's story, this film is very much worth watching alone for all
the references to past decades (most of all in terms of the movements
in society, the music and politics). "Forrest Gump" is a must-watch and
that's all I have to say about that.

******
4 November 2014
8
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), while not intelligent, has accidentally been
present at many historic moments, but his true love, Jenny Curran
(Robin Wright), eludes him.This film is fun, funny and touching, if not a little bit sad. If a
school wanted to (and no doubt some have), it would be an interesting
way to teach the second half of the 20th century. Elvis, Wallace, the
Kennedys and more.This is probably the film that "made" Tom Hanks. Although he was
already big in the 1980s with "Big" (no pun intended), this was
probably the turning point where he went from comedy to serious actor
(well, somewhat serious). And it probably remains his most-watched
movie of all time (well, besides maybe "Sleepless in Seattle").

******
28 October 2014
10
l its must see and meandering, this is among the stand-out audience
pleasers; Hanks outdoes himself in the lovable dolt department with
unforgettable, utterly disarming work. Just as he recaptured boyishness
in Big without resorting to cuteness, here he brilliantly portrays
slowness and dumb doggedness without being patronising. Despite its
flaws, this is simply unmissable. Forrest Gump (Hanks) is short on I.Q.
points but long on heart, a pure and simple soul who follows a straight
path through the world, ever true to the homely advice of his mother
(Field) - the source of guiding Gumpisms such as "Stupid is as stupid
does" - and to his elusive lifelong love Jenny (Wright). He begins his
serendipitous skirmishes with destiny in childhood by unconsciously
giving ideas to the as-yet-unknown Elvis Presley, and goes on to
become, unintentionally, a football star, war h

******
28 October 2014
10
I've never seen a series like this. A trilogy of movies created with
such love and care and utter perfection of craft that you can't help
but walk away and wonder how did Peter Jackson make this possible? I
have always loved the original "Star Wars" and "Indiana Jones" series
for their epic storytelling, and just for just fitting in as a great
moment in cinema. This should be, will be, remembered with as much
revered fondness for generations to come. They do not make films like
these anymore.As a stand alone film, it picks up immediately where "Two Towers" ends,
so brush up before seeing it. I've read the books, and the anticipation
of seeing some of the more profound moments in this film made me kind
of view it with a rushed sense of perspective. I wanted to make sure
everything in this film was done "right". And when it happened, it was.
I will need to see this again to enjoy everything on a more casual
level.

******
24 October 2014
9
Forrest Gump is one of those classic movies that pretty much everybody
has seen, and can quote as well. Hanks portrays Forrest beautifully and
following the story of his life is quite interesting. Even though he's
mentally a little slow, Forrest is loyal, loving and honorable, all
very valuable qualities in a person. His classic "Life is like a box of
chocolates" quote is one heard many times over, that everyone has
quoted a few times in their life. The fact that is now a collection of
stores in the US, Bubba Gumps, based from this movie, shows just how
big of a film it is. There is some great acting in the film, and one
that everybody should watch at least once or twice.

******
24 October 2014
10
love this film cry every single time. such an awesome film and deserves
everything it got, its a must see for everyone from children to 65+.
the story-line and actors are all just amazing and make the movie worth
seeing over again and again. also it stands as a very good family film
and funny as well as dramatic. the standards were set very high for me
when i first watched it and i was definitely not disappointed or let
down! if you are reading this review to maybe watch this film just go
and do it you will not think it was a waste at all and i'm pretty sure
you will cry at least once through the full 2hours. Perfect classic
movie.

******
24 October 2014
8
This movie was my mother's favourite one when she was pregnant. I think
I was born with the idea that this movie was came to world with me. Tom
Hanks became one of my favourite actors because of this film. I found
it so gripping, moving, I absolutely loved the main character. In my
opinion, this movie was the perfect representation of kindness,
sweetness and all the good it may bring. The story is quite simple:
it's the life of a "simple" man (in other words, with a low I.Q.
level), who's running from one crazy adventure to another. With his
ingenious look, we see him growing from childhood until the adult age,
following his heart and doing everything for his mommy and the woman he
loves. I think I can qualify this movie as a masterpiece from the
nineties. It is a tragi-comic movie, that everyone should see.

******
23 October 2014
10
Forest Gump will make you Laugh,Cry,Cringe and JUMP FOR JOY!. Its about
a boy who is Half retard that grows up doing extraordinary things...All
while we get to see some historical American events take place through
his perspective. It really is Drama in the truest sense of the word."Mama said life was like a box of chocolates...you just never know what
ya gonna get! Ha!" "Lieutenant Dannnnnnn Ice Creammmmmmmm. HAHA!!"This Movie has some of the best quotes of any movie Ever! Not everyone
loves Forest Gump..But It's definitely a movie you have to see at least
once to make up your mind..and quote the movie for years and years to
come!

******
21 October 2014
10
Forrest Gump is the kind of film that shouldn't work on any level. It's
as manipulative as a film can ever be, pulling strings and begging the
audience to cry, and the entire event is drowned in sticky-sweet syrup.
And yet - incredibly - Forrest Gump truly works. It is not without flaw
- in fact, it would be nearly impossible to count down all of its many
problems - but this film succeeds in being an entertaining, whimsical,
and - at times - quite beautiful portrayal of life, love, and 20th
century America. And while one would be quick to point to director
Robert Zemeckis in regards to the film's success, or perhaps Eric
Roth's screenplay, or even Winston Groom's book upon which the film is
based, I think the reason this film works, is because of Tom Hank's
legendary performance as the title character.Forrest Gump is a slow-witted Alabama native. But indeed, he has
extraordinary talent, and an intriguing life story to tell to whoever
will sit next to him at the bus-stop. Despite being embraced by - seemingly - everyone, Forrest Gump actually
fared less well than critics. It holds a 72% on Rotten Tomatoes, which
is a good score, but not a great one. This is largely because Forrest
Gump will not appeal to the cynical. And Lord knows that film critics
get enough hate as it is, but there's simply no two ways about it: Film
critics, generally speaking, are more cynical than the average
movie-goer. Those willing to accept the occasionally preposterous
nature of the film and the sometimes cloying sentimental tone will find
a lot to enjoy. But if you've never quite cottoned to the sappier
efforts of Steven Spielberg or renaissance Disney, you may find Forrest
Gump to be an eternal 142 minutes.One of the problems with Forrest Gump is that the film goes to
exceedingly great lengths to make Forrest as endearing and likable as
possible. And honestly, it wasn't necessary; he's already a likable
character. Additionally, Forrest Gump just seems to be an expert at
everything. When we learn he's an incredibly fast runner, we buy that.
But after we learn he's incredible at putting guns together, playing
ping-pong, etc., things get a little stale.On top of that, Forrest Gump also has a running gag in which Forrest
turns out to be the originator of several pop culture staples, from one
of Elvis Presley's dance moves, to the creator of the "smiley" face,
etc. Forrest Gump spends so much time winking at the audience, one
begins to ponder the likelihood of contracting an eye-lid blister.In spite of the film's many problems, however, Forrest Gump is a good
film, largely thanks to Tom Hanks. His performance adds an element of
genuineness and sincerity to the picture, thus balancing the syrupy
sap. On paper, the Forrest Gump character comes off as cloying, but
when you see Tom Hanks portray this character, it not only works, it
comes to life. This is not a case of a great performance making a
decent film worth seeing. This is a great performance that elevates
everything surrounding it. It gives the movie a classy nature that
makes the sentiment feel earned.There are genuine moments of beauty and grace. In fact, some sequences
are almost stunningly beautiful. When the film eases back a little on
the sweetness, it has an old-fashioned appeal to it, and an
unmistakable charm in the aesthetics of the picture.The visual effects are superb. Forrest Gump seamlessly blends with the
archival footage in an effect that still holds up today. Even more
impressive - to my eyes, anyway - is the effect used for a character
who has lost his legs in the war, and must function without them.I've already praised Hanks' performance, but the rest of the cast is
worth noting too. Robin Wright plays Forrest's love interest, Jenny, in
a more serious role. She captures the depth of the character, and is
never as annoying as she might have been in less capable hands. Gary
Sinise as Dan Taylor delivers a performance that's absolutely
marvelous, and even giving Hanks a bit of a run for his money. Sinise's
performance is powerful and gripping. Sally Fields portrays the most
charming of the cast, Forrest's mother, in a sweet but memorable
supporting role. Michael Conner Humphreys and Hanna R. Hall portray
young Forrest and young Jenny respectively in excellent child
performances.Alan Silvestri's score is very pretty, but it receives an absurdly
little amount of screen time. It gets two major appearances (other than
the credits), and that is the very beginning, and the very end. You
hardly hear it at all the rest of the film, which is largely populated
with obnoxious, time-period- accurate, pop and rock songs. While they
are interesting from a stylistic point of view, they are simply
atrocious from a musical one. They end up stealing a lot of screen time
that would have been better served by Silvestri's much more palatable
musical score.Forrest Gump is heavily flawed, but it has some wonderful moments. Tom
Hanks gives the performance of his life, and despite too much sweetness
at times, the film is a real charmer. The acting is great, the
screenplay is great, the score is great, and the characters are great.
The over- sentimentality brings the film down a bit at times, but it's
hard to imagine that too many people would leave Forrest Gump without
feeling at least a little better about life.

******
18 October 2014
8
I really love this movie. It's so adorable and I love the little things
they put into it. Like manipulating footage of presidents to put
Forrest into them. Making him part of some of the biggest things in his
lifetime. In this movie, we learn about a special man named Forrest Gump. We see
his pretty much his entire life. He, as a middle aged man, tell random
strangers whilst waiting for the bus. We see him meet his longtime
friend, Jenny, when he was a young boy with leg braces. We see him grow
up, sleep with Jenny, join the army, go to war in Vietnam, open a
shrimping business, with his deceased friend in mind, him buy a share
in Apple Computers, him play college football, him meet three
presidents, him teach Elvis his iconic move, his mother dying, him run
across America for no particular reason, him finding out he had a child
with Jenny, him marrying Jenny, Jenny dying of aids, because she was a
giant hippie then a giant druggie. And everything important or relevant
in his life. Overall, I give this movie an 8 out of 10.

******
17 October 2014
10
The story runs of a unit bases which the storyline that tells the story
of Forrests life, the character, the story and the actor just makes
this in my opinion best film ever as it based on a true story with a
man who when to Vietnam to fight for his country, his-self and his
pride. Forrest grows up to to realise that Jenny is sort of in a
distant from him most the time as she begins to have a messed up like
with the wrong people, Jenny gets that most into a addiction that only
leaves her to that action with her life. Jenny to end with realises that Forrest is the right person for her and
tells Forrest she sick and can die from it, she dies and Forrest to the
best of his ability takes care of his son the new Forrest Gump the
second

******
16 October 2014
10
I give it a 10 out of 10 because it is in my Top 100 Movies of all time
(Top 10, actually), and because when I run across it on TV I can't help
but watch whatever is left of it time-wise... I must have done that 25
or 50 times, and probably always will... I think that's what you do
when you like a movie over most others...A bunch of years have now gone by since I saw "Forrest Gump" the first
time - in a theater, and when I try to think of movies I'd prefer to
re-watch I have a hard time coming up with 10, some days it's only 2 or
3... Then again I've been told I'm a sentimental old fool...The only reason I am here writing this considering 20 years have gone
by since the debut is that I bumped into someone recently who hasn't
seen this film, and I thought maybe something I might say could
possibly persuade a similar person to go rent it... It would be hard to
find a better way to spend 2 and a half hours...

******
16 October 2014
10
this film is one of my many favorites the plot can just move you its
simple yet pure genius and its many lovably characters add to the great
aspect of the film it teaches people about loving yourself and also
about ant-bullying and the effect it has on a persons life i think
forest gump is and inspirational film that will never be forgotten and
family's in generations to come will love it just as much as i did.
although forest gump is a well known film people still do not show as
much appreciation for it that i think it should get its a great story
taht can help kids in need thou its not based on a true story the film
director and characters portray it as one they make it full with real
emotion that you can feel when watching it.

******
6 October 2014
10
Forrest Gump is a very inspirational film about a man, named Forrest
Gump, who has a lower IQ than average, but has a very exciting and
adventurous life because of all of the major historical events that he
just so happens to run into. Forrest Gump stars Tom Hanks, as Forrest
Gump, Robin Wright, as Jenny Curran, and Gary Sinise, as Lieutenant Dan
Taylor. The acting in this film was of very high quality because the
actors made it seem like the story actually happened. They also did a
great job at making the characters seem more relatable to the viewer.
Tom Hanks actually won an Oscar for Best Actor in a Leading Role and
Gary Sinise was nominated for Best Actor in a Supporting Role for their
performances in Forrest Gump. The director is Robert Zemeckis and the
writers are Winston Groom, who wrote the novel, and Eric Roth, who
wrote the screenplay. Forrest Gump is very well directed and written
because of many aspects, including the visual effects and how most of
the film is a narrated flashback. The visual effects in this film were
outstanding. When Forrest was meeting all of the Presidents and when he
was getting involved in the integration crisis at Alabama, it seemed
like Forrest was actually there. This added on to the believability of
the film. I also thought that it was very entertaining to be able to
see the story from the view of Forrest Gump himself and wouldn't be
nearly as fun if it weren't told like it was. One of my favorite
characteristics of Forrest Gump is how entertaining and fun it is. The
film never ceases to surprise the viewer. Forrest Gump is a fictional
character that is getting involved with events that actually occurred
in real life. Also, Forrest never really seems to realize the
importance of all the events that he has accidentally influenced or
walked into, which makes the film even more entertaining. There are
also many serious attributes of Forrest Gump that make it a great film.
Forrest seems to have a happy and successful life just from being
innately good. This teaches a moral lesson to the viewer to show that
good things happen to good people. A moral lesson is key to a film
being considered good because it really gets the viewer invested in the
story and makes the situations more relatable to their life. Forrest
Gump is great because the film is encompassing the themes of
entertainment and teaching a moral lesson. Also, Forrest Gump is a very
memorable film, especially the quotes. Lines, such as "run, Forrest,
run!", "life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're
gonna get", and "stupid is as stupid does", are among the quotes that
many people, including me, had heard before ever seeing Forrest Gump.
Many people also know Forrest Gump because of its groundbreaking plot,
which just so happens to be my favorite part of the film. In my
opinion, the plot of Forrest Gump is the key reason why it is such a
fantastic film. The plot is a mixture of multiple genres, such as
drama, action, comedy, and even romance. When a film can cover all of
these genres, it is bound to connect with many people in the audience.
Forrest Gump can also be included in the Vietnam War movie category
because Forrest is sent off to fight the war in Vietnam after he
enlists in the U.S. Army. The setting of the film was an influential
part of why the plot was so good because the story took place during a
very interesting and exciting part of American history. Another one of
my favorite aspects of Forrest Gump is the soundtrack because it
contains many songs that were produced during the setting of the story.
It includes some of my favorites, such as "Fortunate Son", by Creedence
Clearwater Revival, "California Dreamin'", by The Mama & The Papas, and
"Mrs. Robinson", by Simon & Garfunkel. The songs that were featured
were very popular when they were released and continue to be popular in
today's culture. The soundtrack simply adds on to the list of reasons
why Forrest Gump is such a fantastic film. In my opinion, it is one of
the greatest films of all-time and will continue to be for a very long
time. I believe that it will definitely stand the test of time very
easily and will be a classic in the future.

******
28 September 2014
10
It's a film that changed the history of the world, many of the things
that happens every day I remind this film, the simplicity of its
narrative captive, I have seen many times and will continue to do, is a
film that does not let you get bored, you filled with a myriad of
feelings, makes you change the world's perspective, I fascinate the
special effects in this movie, see how passes and meet a president,
then another, the humorous situations, like everything fits with the
history of the world, the direction of this movie is very good, easily
understood all, the interpretation of the situations, feelings,
intentions, etc. think there is anyone who has not enjoyed this movie
in this world, should be in the top 10 drama movies in the world.

******
27 September 2014
10
I know 'Best Movie Ever' sounds like such a clich, a phrase used to
death. Many people use it on movies which really do not deserve to be
called the best movie ever. I believe that the phrase ' Best Movie
Ever' should be reserved for one movie only. This is really a legendary
movie. It will always be one of the best.I can't believe how low the rating is. It deserves to be even higher up
there. The plot and acting is magnificent. I've seen it at least three
times and it's always good to see it again, because it's just that
good. There is something that makes this really unique. It is really
difficult to explain what that exactly is. It is the best ever. It will
move you. You will love it. If you haven't seen it, watch it. 10/10

******
25 September 2014
8
This movie introduces to some of the greatest moment of American
history. I watched this movie when i was very young and some of the
historic moment which have been visualized in this move where unknown
to me but as time passed and i got chance to watch this again and again
but it has been always a great movie for me.The most iconic dialogues which is also my favourite is "when the
Forrest Gump (played by Tom Hanks) says "Mama always said life was like
a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get." I hope to
watch it with many times because it has been one of the iconic movies
winning awards and acclaim.

******
19 September 2014
8
Here, we have a story that is worth being told for generations to come.A story of a man, who had everything going against him and yet he did
whatever best he could. And when you do your best in whatever you have
taken upon, you would mostly succeed. And there in lies the story of
FORREST GUMP. When you are determined, even Gods would come down
embracing you. Look at that scene in which there were no shrimps and
after the hurricane there is plethora of shrimps and they become
millionaires.Yet, most of it is untrue and even hypothetical, like running coast to
coast for 3 years. Even such fabrications will be loved and embraced,
if we love this man called Forrest Gump. He does everything from
meeting the president to running the whole of America to being a war
hero and setting up his own business and becoming a millionaire. And
did I say, this was against all the odds, he had, yes, he did not have
legs and he got them back by running, he is mentally retarded, yet he
proves all of them wrong by being successful in everything he does. Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump, has given us one of the best performances
ever and this is a great character in itself. I have learnt from
wikipedia that Robert Zemeckis the director, deviated from the novel
written by Winston Groom. Now, what he did as a the director was a good
thing and that is what I strongly believe. I did not read the novel
though, but I loved Gump the way he is, so I think the changes were
good. Technically, I liked the editing, though nearly 2 and half hours long,
it was not at all so boring. Also, the screenplay by Eric Roth was
good. The direction, I loved it. Look at that feather fly from skies to
Gump's feet and then fly away at the end, just a glimpse of what
direction is. Special effects were great specially in terms of putting
Gump with the presidents and even John Lennon, I just liked the way it
was all done. Also, I loved the dialogue and what a piece of writing
this was, you can turn simple things interesting by saying them in an
interesting way, and this movie does that through dialogue.Above all, I loved Forrest Gump as he is and more than anything, I
loved Tom Hanks as Forrest, this is a great portrayal of a character.
From dialect, to walking style to costumes, everything was appealing
and interesting about Forrest Gump.It's a 4/5 for a movie that is great in terms of characterisation of a
man who has has a "JUST DO IT" spirit and for Tom Hanks who has given
one of the best performances.

******
16 September 2014
10
A nice and inspirational movie. Loved this movie very much. I like the
story very much its funny, and also touching. Forrest Gump, despite of
his mental incapacity he meets popular person in the world, influence
other people and helped them. He had a company and become rich.He is
also part of some popular events. My favorite scene in the movie when
he start running fast he breaks the braces off his legs and run like
the wind blows. Also the war in Vietnam where he met his friend Bubba
who like to talk about shrimp.During the war he save Lieutenant Dan and
become partner of his company and also heartbreaking when Bubba his
friend died. While Forrest is in recovery for a bullet shot to his
buttock he discovers his uncanny ability for ping-pong, eventually
became popular and rising to celebrity status, later playing ping-pong
versus Chinese teams.He endorses a company that makes ping-pong
paddles, earning himself $25,000, which he uses to buy a shrimping
boat, fulfilling his promise to Bubba. My favorite line in this movie
is "Life is like a box of chocolates...you never know what you're gonna
get". I'll never forget this film, its one of the best film of all
times.It's incredible, a must see movie.

******
8 September 2014
10
this is one of the few movies that really inspired me when i was young,
amazing sets, photography, special effects, and in general all the
components that merged to grain to reality this master piece of
Hollywood.a special mention to the FX in the movie, mind blowing, superlative,
incredible, a really great job done.the performance by Tom Hanks is breath taking, he really deserved that
Oscar,he's amazing.cheersJuan camilo

******
26 August 2014
8
Still very sweet, earnest and emotive after all this time, though it
very nearly drowns in a perpetual stream of fibs and exaggerations. The
constant pop culture references, and Forrest's appearances in just
about every last hallmark moment of his generation, act as both a
blessing and a curse. They represent a majority of the film's enduring
identity, with a certain amount of charm attributed to the seamy,
not-quite-there execution of the archival footage, but it's often a
case of too much of a good thing. His silly contributions during the
continent-spanning run that seals the second act are particularly
egregious - good for a very quick snort, but ultimately damaging to the
story at large. It's got a big, heavy heart though, and that carries it
a long way. Tom Hanks, of course, is to thank for a great deal of that,
but Gary Sinise is almost just as good in his cigar-chomping,
world-loathing, hat-hanging support role as Lieutenant Dan. A
one-of-a-kind classic that may have been just a smidge overrated at the
time it was released, its cornerstone scenes still hold up very well
and the classic cast of characters may as well be family at this point.

******
17 August 2014
9
Many years from now, people will still be enjoying this movie of
personal triumph -- relating the varied life experiences we all go
thru. The movie: "Forrest Gump" - is brave enough to show us every
side.I cannot every forget his simple wisdom: "Momma always says, Stupid is
as stupid does"!! And also... when asked, Why did you stop running? His
simple reply, "I was tired." And seemingly having no perception of the
lives he affected by doing that one small, heartfelt, gutsy task - to
follow his bliss (for that moment). It would be great if we all could
remain as innocent as Forrest Gump.Of course, kudos to the one and only Tom Hanks!! There's not a movie
with his name that I won't watch; and I tired!! LOL Absolutely love him
and his mastery.

******
11 August 2014
8
I'm spoiling the end of the movie. I believe this was a made for TV movie. Had a boy in it, who was early
twenties I believe. He was driving somewhere and his car fell off a
cliff. His mom got a search party with police and they had a hard time
finding him. I think he might have took a different route to wherever
he was going. In the end his mom finds him and it was days later and
she thought he was dead but he was just barely alive. I try to find an old animation movie that I watched as a kid on TV in
the 90s (it could be older) and made an enduring impression on me. I
remember the ending most vividly: a bloody battle on the top of a hill
where two armies clashed, apparently led by a man and a woman inside
cyborgs or some kind of robotic vehicle. These two seemed to share a
history (fling?? / siblings??) and confronted each other beside a
nearby river. They both died. The movie ended tragically with a shot of
the great tree on the top of the hill, surrounded by corpses of both
armies.. The only other thing I recall is a young man and a woman that spent the
night in a house and in the morning the woman transformed in a
butterfly and flew away. The man tried to catch her but without
success. The butterflies (souls??) seemed central to the movie. It was all very depressing (as you can imagine :-P) but it was so
powerful animation that stuck to my head for years! I tried to find it
in IMDb, google and anime sites through keywords but to no avail. It
seemed to be Japanese animation but I cannot be sure.. Sorry it's so vague I saw this on CBC years ago. Thanks!!

******
7 August 2014
9
I never give films a 10 as no film is a 10 in my eyes. However, this
film is just a masterpiece. I think it's got that typical boy chasing
girl routine which is expressed so emotionally and sensitively. I like
the realism of this film, how it focuses on real life issues and how
they're incorporated into Forrest's life. I think this film is
brilliantly written, shot and presented so that the audience feels the
true depth. I especially love how everything Forrest gets into is the
simple "in the moment" attitude which says a lot about society which I
especially enjoyed the most. A fantastic film, recommend to all. It can
open your eyes to how you see your life as well as what is around you.
:)

******
7 August 2014
7
Forrest Gump is the kind of film that shouldn't work on any level. It's
as manipulative as a film can ever be, pulling strings and begging the
audience to cry, and the entire event is drowned in sticky-sweet syrup.
And yet - incredibly - Forrest Gump truly works. It is not without flaw
- in fact, it would be nearly impossible to count down all of its many
problems - but this film succeeds in being an entertaining, whimsical,
and - at times - quite beautiful portrayal of life, love, and 20th
century America. And while one would be quick to point to director
Robert Zemeckis in regards to the film's success, or perhaps Eric
Roth's screenplay, or even Winston Groom's book upon which the film is
based, I think the reason this film works, is because of Tom Hank's
legendary performance as the title character.Forrest Gump is a slow-witted Alabama native. But indeed, he has
extraordinary talent, and an intriguing life story to tell to whoever
will sit next to him at the bus-stop. Despite being embraced by - seemingly - everyone, Forrest Gump actually
fared less well than critics. It holds a 72% on Rotten Tomatoes, which
is a good score, but not a great one. This is largely because Forrest
Gump will not appeal to the cynical. And Lord knows that film critics
get enough hate as it is, but there's simply no two ways about it: Film
critics, generally speaking, are more cynical than the average movie-
goer. Those willing to accept the occasionally preposterous nature of
the film and the sometimes cloying sentimental tone will find a lot to
enjoy. But if you've never quite cottoned to the sappier efforts of
Steven Spielberg or renaissance Disney, you may find Forrest Gump to be
an eternal 142 minutes.One of the problems with Forrest Gump is that the film goes to
exceedingly great lengths to make Forrest as endearing and likable as
possible. And honestly, it wasn't necessary; he's already a likable
character. Additionally, Forrest Gump just seems to be an expert at
everything. When we learn he's an incredibly fast runner, we buy that.
But after we learn he's incredible at putting guns together, playing
ping-pong, etc., things get a little stale.On top of that, Forrest Gump also has a running gag in which Forrest
turns out to be the originator of several pop culture staples, from one
of Elvis Presley's dance moves, to the creator of the "smiley" face,
etc. Forrest Gump spends so much time winking at the audience, one
begins to ponder the likelihood of contracting an eye-lid blister.In spite of the film's many problems, however, Forrest Gump is a good
film, largely thanks to Tom Hanks. His performance adds an element of
genuineness and sincerity to the picture, thus balancing the syrupy
sap. On paper, the Forrest Gump character comes off as cloying, but
when you see Tom Hanks portray this character, it not only works, it
comes to life. This is not a case of a great performance making a
decent film worth seeing. This is a great performance that elevates
everything surrounding it. It gives the movie a classy nature that
makes the sentiment feel earned.There are genuine moments of beauty and grace. In fact, some sequences
are almost stunningly beautiful. When the film eases back a little on
the sweetness, it has an old-fashioned appeal to it, and an
unmistakable charm in the aesthetics of the picture.The visual effects are superb. Forrest Gump seamlessly blends with the
archival footage in an effect that still holds up today. Even more
impressive - to my eyes, anyway - is the effect used for a character
who has lost his legs in the war, and must function without them.I've already praised Hanks' performance, but the rest of the cast is
worth noting too. Robin Wright plays Forrest's love interest, Jenny, in
a more serious role. She captures the depth of the character, and is
never as annoying as she might have been in less capable hands. Gary
Sinise as Dan Taylor delivers a performance that's absolutely
marvelous, and even giving Hanks a bit of a run for his money. Sinise's
performance is powerful and gripping. Sally Fields portrays the most
charming of the cast, Forrest's mother, in a sweet but memorable
supporting role. Michael Conner Humphreys and Hanna R. Hall portray
young Forrest and young Jenny respectively in excellent child
performances.Alan Silvestri's score is very pretty, but it receives an absurdly
little amount of screen time. It gets two major appearances (other than
the credits), and that is the very beginning, and the very end. You
hardly hear it at all the rest of the film, which is largely populated
with obnoxious, time-period-accurate, pop and rock songs. While they
are interesting from a stylistic point of view, they are simply
atrocious from a musical one. They end up stealing a lot of screen time
that would have been better served by Silvestri's much more palatable
musical score.Forrest Gump is heavily flawed, but it has some wonderful moments. Tom
Hanks gives the performance of his life, and despite too much sweetness
at times, the film is a real charmer. The acting is great, the
screenplay is great, the score is great, and the characters are great.
The over-sentimentality brings the film down a bit at times, but it's
hard to imagine that too many people would leave Forrest Gump without
feeling at least a little better about life.

******
6 August 2014
10
When i was only sixteen, my older brother was watching this movie in
his room. Though i was not interested but i always follow what my
brother does. Then i discover this that a cinema can inspire people
that much i never even can imagine. After watching it, my vision over
cinema had changed. What a cinema !!!A man named Forrest gump who is not normal like us and even in his
childhood he was cripple. This cinema started like he is different from
us. However, he is actually a normal fellow which actually impact on
normal people. The things he feels to do, he gave his maximum focus on
it. He is not much smarter than normal people but he knows what love is
and in the end it really give us a theory on infant love.As a man like Forrest gump could do his duty which he actually destined
to do. Why we people are so much hesitated and convoluted with our work
when we are in disappointing situation. We should know the line "Life
is a box of chocolate, you never know what you are gonna get"

******
31 July 2014
8
I was told that it was rubbish but when my sister received it from a
friend for Christmas, we watched it and thought it was brilliant.It is funny,it has a lot of sadness and it is his life and shows all
the things he does and grows up with.This is not a film I would usually watch but i enjoyed it and would
recommend it still.I liked it because it was something new, it was something to relate to
life, it was touching. I disliked some characters in it and other i
loved but terrible things happened to them.The character i disliked the most was his best friend because of the
way she reacted to him when he was sticking up for her.

******
28 July 2014
10
This movie has got to be one of the best ever. I am not saying that
because it is one of my favorites, but because there was a time when I
had to watch this movie for the first time to see what it was like. It
has a perfect balance of history, comedy, and romance. It is well
executed and every key point is covered and not one detail left
unturned. This is what real movies should be like. Personally, some of
my favorite movies are ones such as Titanic, Cold Mountain, Armageddon,
Pretty In Pink, etc etc. as you can tell I am one for romance movies.
On a Top 15 list of my favorite movies Forrest Gump is #4. Even though
I really love the romance between Forrest and Jenny, another thing that
drew me to Forrest Gump is the history. It was amazing watching them
fit Forrest into so many events. Fantastic cast, fantastic crew, and
perfect execution of the book.

******
22 July 2014
9
There are certain films that literally anyone who participates in
viewing films has seen and should see and "Forrest Gump" is a prime
example. "Forrest Gump" is a unique type of film that is a
narrative/flashback/current time style film about one man named Forrest
Gump, one of the biggest cinematic character icons of all time from
legendary actor Tom Hanks. Forrest is mentally challenged. He doesn't
suffer from mental retardation, but it can be implied he is slightly
autistic. Forrest Gump has had an incredible life. After being bullied
as a child for having braces on his legs and being autistic in Georgia,
he went on to be an all American football player due to his tremendous
speed and ended up meeting JFK. He was a war hero in Vietnam where he
lost his friend Bubba but later took care of his family financially due
to becoming very successful in Bubba's shrimp business. To add on to
Forrest's talent, he became an international ping pong player after
becoming skilled in the war hospital and makes a national news landmark
by leading many others to go for a run around the country. But the
events that shape Forrest's life are not by his achievements but from
his relationships. His childhood lover Jenny (Robin Wright) has always
been Forrest's main motivation. After a fun childhood and having an
abusive father, jenny ends up making mistakes. She became a model for
an inappropriate magazine, became a singer at a sex club, joined the
hippie movement while Forrest was ironically fighting the war where she
became a drug addict, and became highly depressed. Forrest also met his
friend Lieutenant Dan, his war leader who lost his legs in Vietnam
before Forest saved his life. The two have a fascinating relationship.
Forrest and his mother are also very close and encourages Forrest
commonly. Forrest Gump tells his story to various people on a bench
while sitting on the bus station. What writer Eric Roth does to this
adapted story is show us how the simplest people can be inspirations
and even heroes. I bet 10/10 people 9/10 times would ignore whoever is
next to them and find no interest what so ever. Forrest Gump is a man
of amazement and can teach us that no matter one's disability mentally
or physically, they can be important people. Director Robert Zemmeckis
takes us throughout American History and shows how one man's life
related to some of the most crucial times our country faced. He uses
great time change and uses the shift between flashbacks, narration, and
modern time beautifully. We get great film aspects to show this
inspiration come to life. The different types of locations are designed
beautifully, from Vietnam to the white house, we see amazing settings
to portray the life around one simple man. The beautiful character
development and classic text allow us to be wrapped around in pure
movie magic and experience world class cinema from a talented team. Tom
Hanks as Forrest Gump is genius and fun to watch as we see this man be
brought to life by one of the greatest actors we will ever see. The
supporting cast is terrific and everyone in this picture gives
tremendous effort to give us a classic film. It isn't recognized this
widely for no reason. The most famous quote from this film is "Life is
like a box of chocolates, you never know what your going to get." Well,
with Forrest Gump you definitely know what your gonna get... an amazing
film that is inspiring and reflecting on how each person is beautiful.

******
15 July 2014
9
Forrest Gump is a 1994 movie directed by Robert Zemeckis starring Tom
Hanks as Forrest Gump, a mentally handicap man who tells his life's
tale to anyone who will listen while he awaits the reunion with his
childhood sweetheart. Despite being told that he is different,
Forrest's mother raises Forrest with love and advice, which leads to
Forrest having crazy adventures as he ages and leaves his home.
Throughout the film, Forrest is reunited briefly with Jenny as they
both live out America's history in the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s. Forrest
Gump is a heartbreakingly honest and breathtakingly funny film capable
of captivating audiences.The message behind Forrest Gump is simply that a true innocence of
character will get he anywhere in life, even if he does not mean to go
there. Forrest was always just in the right place at the right time,
minding his own business. At one point, all Forrest is trying to do is
go to class and he ends up on the news in a racial battle at his
college. However, Forrest managed to stay innocent and kind in a crazy
time, which shows that if even those that are said to be destined to be
different are not always destined to fail. Jenny often talked about how
destiny influenced everything, and she was right, only from most
perspectives, despite his handicap, Forrest still had a better life
than her.One of the best parts about Forrest Gump is Forrest himself. Forrest is
not stupid; he is just a bit slow, but he is pure and honest to the
core, which makes for both hilarity and heartbreak during such a
turbulent time, with racial issues dividing the country, assassinations
of people who prompted peace, and wars raging across the globe, not to
mention all the other drugs, politics, and moral issues tearing America
apart. Characters aside, my favorite part of Forrest Gump was the use
of actual historical events that gave the film a more authentic and
realistic feel.

******
12 July 2014
9
No wonder it's been ranked one of the top 15 greatest films on IMDb, it
truly, ultimately, and 100% deserves to be in the top 15! Such an
incredible film, and many people give it praise and list to be one of
the greatest films, not only on here, but of ALL-TIME! Forrest Gump is my all-time second favourite Tom Hanks film (right
behind Cast Away) and it's one of my 50 favourite films. It's a great
film with inspiring moments, and it's truly heart-warming with some
beautiful moments and excellent acting/directing. Heart-touching. Heart-felt. Fantastic.If you're searching for a great film with top-notch, deep directing,
acting, producing, everything, then search no more, as you have Forrest
Gump - one of the best films of the 90s too, might I add. 10/10, 5 stars out of 5 stars from me. It's fabulous and it never gets
old. So rarely do you come across a romantic-drama, with some humorous
moments, that's as good as this. Shock-and-awe spectacle, with heart-
felt delivering moments.Excellent.

******
10 July 2014
8
Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson and Sally
Field star in Robert Zemeckis' 1994 drama based on the novel. This
story focuses on slow-witted, Alabama gardener, Forrest Gump (Hanks)
who reflects his life experiences through friendships and historical
moments. Wright (The Princess Bride) plays Forrest's friend &
love-interest, Jenny Curran, Sinise (Ransom) plays Forrest's army
lieutenant & friend, Dan Taylor, Williamson (Heat) plays Forrest's best
friend, Bubba and Field plays Forrest's mother. This is a great film
that's definitely one of Tom's best with a good cast & excellent score
by Alan Silvestri. I recommend this.

******
9 July 2014
10
One of best made movies of all times (in my eyes). Inspiring and cool
as well as funny. The story is told in way that can make "special"
people be smart and understanding. It also tell us not to "judge book
by it's cover". We all live in era where perfection has to come with
intelligentsia, talent and (in some cases) money. I myself have watched
this movie about 20 times so far and still love to watch it with
friends and family. Is good movie. I do own DVD of it and is next to my
other collection. Money well spend. Can't wait till they remake it but
hope that they do not destroy it story line or how it is done.. I gave
it 9 out of 10 just because is z best ;)

******
6 July 2014
10
I get into an argument with a friend in New Orleans in 2011. He claims
that Forrest Gump is the greatest movie of all time. I am bothered by
this and ask him to state his case. He replied that they are parodies,
restaurants, everyone quotes it (18 years later), 6 Oscars in a year
where the academy saw outstanding movies (shawshank, pulp fiction, lion
king!), and goes on and on and on. I argue back saying it only won 6
Oscars (compared to others that won more), that the academy just loves
Tom Hanks and Robert Zemekis, and how they are better movies than
Forrest Gump. We have to put the argument on hold due to the fact that
we were walking to a wedding and had arrived. While sitting in the
church at the ceremony, the priest's first words in his sermon are, and
i kid you not, "Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know which
one you are gonna get". At this point in time, I slowly look to my
right, and my friend seating a few seats away, slowly returns a look at
me with a cheesy smile and nods his head. I can say after that moment,
Forrest Gump is the greatest movie of my generation, and possibly the
greatest movie of all time.

******
3 July 2014
10
We watch movies because of the stories, right? This is a
masterpiece,one of the best movies I have ever watched. Many people
would think its old and boring, Let me tell something I thought the
same. One day maybe five years back, I was going through my movies and
I found this, first I thought it would be a good movie but boring, then
I started to watch just little bit of the movie than little bit more
and more and MORE.. I didn't stop till the movie was over, the story
telling in this movie is beyond your grandma use to tell you. YES! I'M
SERIOUS. NO KIDDING. The acting, direction, characters, story, the
chemistry and everything is just indefinable in words. And Tom Hanks
live up-to his reputation of a legendary actor. MUST WATCH. 10 out of
10 from my side.

******
22 June 2014
10
In the movie Forrest Gump made in 1994, is about a man with a low IQ,
who become a friend to Jenny as a child. His mom teaches him about life
and to chose his own destiny in life. Tom Hank plays the role of
Forrest Gump. Robin Wright is Jenny Curran, Gary Sinise plays Lt. Dan,
Mykelti Williamson plays Bubba, and Sally Fields plays Forrest Gump's
Momma Mrs. Gump. The movie opens with Gump sitting on a park bench and he picks up a
feather. He will begin telling his story starting when he first met
Jenny. Jenny has helped him when he was little by telling him to run
from his bullies. Forrest were leg braces as a child, and when he ran
one day, his braces broke off, and he never wore them again. Forrest
began to fall in love with Jenny, but she had her own demons. Jenny
would move away, and Forrest would begin his journey in life. First
begin the Vietnam War. At the end of the war, he would once again be
reunited with Jenny. And she would also once again leave him again as
she does a couple of times. As he sits and talks to everyone that would sit on the park bench, he
remembers everything that he has done in his life up to the time he is
sitting there. His love for "his Jenny" is strong. He also makes some
good friends along his way. The first being Lt. Dan from the army. And
Bubba from the war. He would lose Bubba in the war, but Gump tried to
save him. But as Gump moves forward, he would honor his friend Bubba
when Gump gets some money. Lt Dan would help Gump in the shrimping
business.Another major scene takes place when we find out why Gump is sitting on
the park bench. He goes to see Jenny, and finds out that he is a
father. Gump also learns that Jenny is sick. They end up being married,
where Lt. Dan comes back to attend the wedding. Gump spends the rest of
the days taking care of Jenny, and then taking care of his son, once
Jenny passes away.Thinking of a movie that is similar to Forrest Gump would be the
Notebook. In the Notebook, there is narration like Forrest Gump. There
is a man in love with a women, and they go different ways, but do end
up back together. Both movies are symbols of love. I'm a big fan of Forrest Gump. He goes beyond everything to find his
love. Even though they weren't together, he still loved her, and only
her. That love he has for Jenny, would bring them back together and
they would have a son. Just like his mom told him to find his own
destiny in life, he never stopped searching for "his Jenny".

******
21 June 2014
9
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream. This movie is an amazing movie, with themes still relevant today
although its outdated nature. well worth watching for people of all
ages. I personally watched it with my family and siblings 4, 7 and 9
and they loved it. Tom hanks pulls off the Character of forest gump
amazingly, and the new restaurant chains dedicated to the movie are
also a great hit.

******
19 June 2014
9
1994 was a pretty good year for film. Along with "Pulp Fiction" and
"The Shawshank Redemption" we got "Forrest Gump", an idiosyncratic
movie that became a global phenomenon. Popular with both critics and
audiences, it accomplished the rare feat of winning the Best Picture
Oscar while also ranking #1 at the box office for the year.The story revolves around the title character, a dim-witted Alabamian
who unwittingly plays a part in some of the key events of the 20th
century. From inspiring Elvis Presley's signature gyrations to meeting
the president (twice), Gump pops up all over the place as either a
participant or an observer. This tour through American history will
hold special appeal for baby boomers but those from subsequent
generations with a reasonable grounding in American history will also
get a kick out of it. However, the movie isn't just a nostalgia trip.
The central love story supplies a strong thread linking everything
together, as does Gump's relationship with his mother and his two best
friends.That being said, perhaps the main reason why the story comes off as
well as it does is the actors. Tom Hanks, in the title role, is the
movie's anchor. His performance is by turns funny and touching and it
led to a well-deserved second consecutive Best Actor Oscar. The rest of
the principle actors were scarcely less impressive. Sally Field as
Forrest's mother, Robin Wright as his long-time love interest and Gary
Sinise as Lieutenant Dan all gave awards-worthy performances. Also
worthy of note is Mykelti Williamson, whose relatively small role as
Bubba was nevertheless highly memorable.In terms of film-making craft, the movie shows exceptional polish. The
direction by Robert Zemeckis is always well handled and the production
values are excellent. The story's breadth provided ample opportunity
for striking visuals and varied settings. ILM's Oscar-winning visual
effects (which memorably inserted Hanks into archival footage, among
other accomplishments) also deserves credit, though some of the effects
are admittedly a little rough in comparison with future efforts.
Throughout, Alan Silvestri's Oscar-nominated score provided a solid
backdrop in tandem with countless shrewdly chosen period-specific pop
songs.Ultimately, though, "Forrest Gump" is not without its detractors. Some
claim that the movie is overly sentimental and that the title character
is less than endearing. I don't agree with that at all. The movie's
poignancy is well-earned and Gump himself is an iconic character
vividly brought to life. In my opinion, "Forrest Gump" was a deserving
Best Picture Oscar winner, even considering its tough competition.

******
15 June 2014
8
Little do we ever ponder over the details of our lives. Such is the
story of Forrest Gump, the story of life. If you look at it, it's just
a story about a guy, living his life the way we all do. We often
overlook at things happening around us, and we don't realize exactly
what had happened with our lives.Forrest Gump, the idiot, tells the story of his eventful life. With his
below average IQ, and low wit, he had been present in numerous
occasions of historical importance, he reveals his life story, and how
he had been in each and every one of the events, and how he tried to
pursue the love of his life, Jenny.Tom Hanks at his finest, great performance by everyone in the cast, and
overall made it one epic movie to watch. The movie had a grasping plot,
a great character development, and from the start out, I couldn't stop
watching it. This movie definitely goes into my "Greatest Movies"!

******
7 June 2014
9
Regardless to the Forest, this movie hasn't any connection to it. I
don't even understand why this movie entitled Forest Gump, you know?
But I like this, very excellent movie. It reminds me of my family and
my friends. I love it. This movie should be one of the best movies of
all time, time magazine rather. And also, I love the director of this
movie, I love him always as he knew. Regardless to the Forest, this
movie hasn't any connection to it. I don't even understand why this
movie entitled Forest Gump, you know? But I like this, very excellent
movie. It reminds me of my family and my friends. I love it. This movie
should be one of the best movies of all time, time magazine rather. And
also, I love the director of this movie, I love him always as he knew.

******
21 May 2014
10
Forrest Gump is one of my favourite movie in the whole entire world.
Forrest Gump contains many different characters that teach you a
message on the way you live in life. Forrest Gump is an inspirational
movie that will teach you how to live. The main character is Tom Hanks
and my favourite quote in the movie is "Life is like a box of
chocolate, you never know what your going to get." Its a 2 hour movie
but it is worth it. It is one of the best movie in the whole entire
world through my opinion. It is a great film, that is set mostly in the
olden times. It gives u what he has done since when he was born and is
told on a bus stop to many people listening. There is many sad moments
when his mum died. I give it a 10/10 because it is inspirational and a
very funny and sad film.

******
15 May 2014
10
Love how this movie takes all the important events. The actors did a
wonderful job. There was a good relationship between them to pull off
some of the comedy, drama, happy and sad situations. I love the final
outcome. Some may think this moves in different directions, too slow or
fast but this was informative to those who are young and don't know or
haven't lived it, those who are old enough to know, may have forgotten
and lived it, those who are too young to comprehend or haven't been
born yet but when the opportunity comes around will be introduced to
it. I'm not going to give any moments away because I know how it feels
to want to see something and people just can't wait to tell you
everything.

******
10 May 2014
10
Robert Zemeckis' Forrest Gump is an inspirational motion picture that
all people in the world would continue to like for many years. The
movie stars Tom Hanks in his 2nd Oscar winning portrayal as Gump a
simple man with a low I.Q. but with good intentions. He is running his
childhood with his best and only friend Jenny (played by young Hanna
Hall). His mom (played by Sally Field) teaches him the ways of life and
leaves him to choose his own destiny. Then he goes to college and makes
the football team while in college, and then goes to the army for the
Vietnam War finding new friends Lt. Dan Taylor (played by Gary Sinise)
and Bubba (played by Mykleti Williamson). He wins medals and creates a
shrimp fishing fleet, inspires people to jog, create a ping-pong craze,
create the smiley, with bumper stickers and songs, donating to the
people, and meeting the president several times. However it's all
irrelevant to him when he can only think of his childhood sweetheart
Jenny Curran (played by Robin Wright). This was an inspiring
masterpiece for the whole family to watch and also one of Tom Hanks'
best performances of his entire career and Robert Zemeckis' boldest
feature film he had ever made.

******
4 May 2014
9
Tom Hanks, stars as the title character in the novel turned movie,
Forrest Gump. The movie depicts Forrest's many adventures, as he
narrates them to a string of strangers at a bus stop. "Stupid is as
stupid does," Forrest states to a stranger reluctantly listening to his
story. Despite his low IQ, Forrest has inadvertently become a part of
many of the history making moments in second half of the 20th century.
The film follows Forrest as he teaches Elvis Presley to dance, becomes
a college football star, meets John F. Kennedy, serves with honor in
Vietnam, speaks at an anti-war rally at the Washington Monument,
punches a Black Panther, defeats the Chinese in table tennis, meets
Richard Nixon, discovers the break-in at the Watergate, builds a
successful shrimping business, and becomes wealthy through an
investment in a "fruit company" aka Apple Computers, and becomes an
icon by running across the country for several years. Intertwined
throughout his adventures is his undying love for Jenny, played by
Robin Wright. Sally Field's stars as Forrest's mother, whose wisdom is
extolled throughout the movie. Gary Sinise stars as Lieutenant Dan,
Forrest's commanding officer in Vietnam and reluctant friend.Forrest Gump uses a series of flashbacks and voice over narrations to
tell the story of a seemingly less than extraordinary man living an
extraordinary life. This style of storytelling has been used, with
mixed results, in movies for years, including the iconic Citizen Kane.
The opening scene find Forrest sitting on a bench as a feather slowly
drifts in the wind and lands at his feet, this sets the pace for the
movie and subtly introduces one of the themes, is life a series of
coincidences or are we the masters of our own destiny? Forrest tells
one of his listeners, "My momma always said, life is like a box of
chocolates, you never know what you're gonna to get." His life
certainly seems to reflect that sentiment. Through a series of
well-timed coincidences Forrest influences some major historical
events, including The Watergate Scandal, and falls into some incredibly
fortuitous opportunities, like his college football career. Other
events seem to be more of guided destiny, like his service in Vietnam,
which led not only to meeting Lieutenant Dan, but also his "best good
friend" Bubba. He subsequently goes on to save half the platoon,
including Lieutenant Dan and brings Bubba's shrimping boat business to
fruition and becomes very wealthy. The antithesis to these opportune
events is Forrest's unrequited love for Jenny. Throughout all the
stories Jenny pops in and out of Forrest's life, even when it seems
that she is gone forever. He has loved her forever, but she keeps
running from her past, in which Forrest is irrevocably entwined.
Eventually destiny wins and Jenny, now terminally ill, returns a final
time with their son, Forrest. The ending scene ties the theme back in,
as the same feather falls from a book and is again carried away in the
wind. The movie's portrayal of all these incredible events hinges on some
incredible CGI and special effects, but not the fast-action, explosive
effects we often see these days. Forrest's image is superimposed on
historical news reels, at times with humorous results, like showing his
unfortunately placed war wound to President Lyndon Johnson. One
especially noteworthy example is the editing to reflect the loss of
Lieutenant Dan's legs. In every post-Vietnam scene that includes
Lieutenant Dan, his legs had to be digitally removed. The digital
editing is so seamlessly done that some viewers thought that actor Gary
Sinise had actually lost his legs. Forrest Gump successfully uses a mix of CGI enhanced flashbacks and
voice-over narration to cause the viewer to reflect on destiny and the
ripple effects we may have on the people with whom we interact. Are our
lives just a series of coincidences or the destiny we chose?

******
3 May 2014
10
In my opinion Forrest Gump is the best film I have ever seen. It is
incredible how they have managed to fit a man's whole life into one
film, that lasts just under two and a half hours, and not compromise on
quality. They spend just enough time on every point in the film, so
that you get enough detail but still don't get bored. The character may not be considered clever but he still manages a lot
in his life. The film sees him achieve a lot from going to war in
Vietnam, to being a professional Ping-Pong player. However, The main
aspect that keeps popping up in every section is how great he is at
running. Tom Hanks portrays the Forrest brilliantly and makes him a unique
character unlike any other. The fact that he does not understand the
world around him makes the film only funnier, especially in his
narrated parts."They said it was a million dollar wound, but the army
must keep that money cause i still ain't seen a nickel of that million
Dollars."Another clever thing about the film is that Forrest always seems to be
there when famous events happen, and you see them from his perspective
(normally him not understanding what's going on.This film is great spanning across many different genres including
romance, drama, action and always comedy.

******
30 April 2014
10
Forrest Gump is the best movie ever made. When I first saw it I only
sat through the first minute of it and turned it off. After growing
with my age and watching a lot of other movies, Forrest Gump was the
one that I couldn't take my eyes off of. Forrest Gump is the first
movie since Titanic that has made me cry because of Tom Hanks and Gary
Sinises outstanding performances. Almost never in my life have I been
captivated by a movie and how it played out. Forrest Gump is neither
too long or too short, for me it never dragged along and made me bored.
Out of the six Oscars that Forrest Gump won, this movie rightfully
deserved all of it. Pretty much everything made sense to me which made
this movie really great for me. All in all I give Forrest Gump a 10 and
think that this is a movie that should be watched for the rest of time.

******
28 April 2014
8
'Forrest Gump' is a movie that tells the story of the life of a
fictitious character called Forrest Gump, who would probably be
diagnosed with a mental disorder nowadays. In Gump's life, he must
overcome many obstacles, which he does in a way we might call a wonder.
The movie is a literary adaptation of the eponymous book by author
Winston Groom. In our opinion, the movie is a must for everybody
interested in films. It convinces with its great story, its humor and
the love with which it was made. Historical events are indicated and
changed in an amusing way. For the most part, the look is kept simple,
but in some scenes - like the one with former US-president John F.
Kennedy - the video editing exceeded everything imaginable at this time
(1994). Other points why the film is close to perfect are the music,
the message and, last but not least, the incredible performance of main
actor Tom Hanks. The movie won six Academy Awards and was nominated for
another seven. In addition, it won three Golden Globe Awards and was
nominated for four more. We think the awards speak for themselves and
if you don't believe us, watch it!Andreas S. and Jakob W.

******
27 April 2014
10
I remember when I first saw this movie, I thought I was going to hate
it! i thought it was to long and it just wasn't my type of movie! Boy
was I wrong! I fell in love with this movie and now I can watch it over
and over again. This movie made me laugh, cry, gave me hope and kept
interested the entire time. It was like an emotional roller coaster.
Tom Hanks is absolutely brilliant in it! How he became forest to the
point were I forgot I was watching a movie and to the point were I
forgot it was even Tom Hanks. Absolutely amazing film! I think everyone
should see this film at least once in their life. Even if you don't
think its for you, you might end up falling in love with it, just like
I did.

******
27 April 2014
10
For me this movie is just Tom Hanks. The story is there and it is fine,
but everything depended on the 1st role actor. I hear often that is is
easy for an actor to play an imbecil but I sure doubt that anyone could
play it as well as Hanks. At first I did not find the character
believable. It seemed to have Hanks in the wrong flick. After like
15minutes of dubbing I found myself totally submerged in the story. A
young, stupid boy who somehow managed to live his life with honor and
without hurting anyone else. Everything thanks to his mother who loved
him so much. This movie sneaks up on us like we never seen it and a
simple little chain of events becomes a huge story of a man and life
and what it is all about. Serious, funny and dramatic at the same time.

******
21 April 2014
10
The year was 1994, an absolutely amazing year for film. Never since I
was born, or to my recollection, since that year, has there been a
better year for movies. Pictures like The Shawshank Redemption, Legends
of the Fall, Pulp Fiction, even The Crow all came out that year. And
then there was the year's crowning jewel - Forrest Gump. This is
probably my favorite movie of all time. Anytime I feel down, or just
tired of the world beating down on me, I can watch Forrest Gump and for
a few hours, just forget everything. Twenty years later (and I can't
believe it's been 20 years!) the movie still has the same effect on me. The story revolves around Forrest Gump, and man born with both physical
and mental challenges, but with the wisdom and guidance from his
mother, suggestion from his best friend Jenny (to just run if he was in
trouble) and his kindness and good nature (and somewhat bumbling
nature), he succeeds in life. Whether he's running from bullies, or
bullets, or just life and heartache in general, Tom Hanks performance
(coming off his first Oscar Win for "Philadelphia") was his absolute
best. He rightfully won his second Best Actor Oscar for his performance
here. The trials and tribulations Forrest overcomes, while humorously
interjecting himself in some of the most memorable events in American
History from the 60's and 70's makes the film that much more fun to
watch. The supporting cast (Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Sally Fields)
and really everyone in the movie does an exceptional job of bringing it
all together. Forrest Gump is a feel good movie, and a true staple of
the 1990's. The soundtrack is one of the very best ever compiled for a
movie, and one of the few times I ran out and bough a movie soundtrack.
I almost wish I could go back to 1994 and experience it again in a
movie theater. But I'd want to do that for every major picture of 1994. If you've never experienced Gump - I highly recommend that you do! Even
more-so if you're in need of cheering up.

******
19 April 2014
9
"Life's a box of chocolates" - This is truly one of the best ever
produced films in the Amercian history. Extremely insightful and
educational, one can rely on great enjoyment and entertainment whilst
watching this film. A true mix of emotions takes the audience on a real
journey, not only in Gump's life, but also the American suffering and
battle to see through all that came in its way. A fantastic recreation
of time, and brilliant performances allow this to be an equally
educational film to all those studying the Vietnam War. The
performances create deep, emotional and defining characters, which any
viewer can relate to...An unforgettable film with an amazing story, great acting and an
exceptional production: from Directing to production design - its
theatrical release success proves its splendid quality!

******
16 April 2014
10
Forest Gump is one of the greatest dramas of all time. Tom Hanks is
easily one of the best actors of this age. This story is full of
emotion and makes us realize that there are true heroes living among
us. The soundtrack to the film is one of my favorites of all time
because it fits to the time period of the film as well as to the
emotion of each and every scene. As far as war films go, this is the
best of all, although it does not focus on the actual wartime for more
than a few minutes. Furthermore, I have never been a big fan of
romantic films yet this one is a tear jerker through and through. It
makes you understand just how loyal Forest is to Jenny, yet she doesn't
give him all of her love until near the end. Then the hearts of every
viewer are broken when she dies after such a short period of time
together.

******
29 March 2014
10
Forrest Gump is one of those movies I'm shocked to hear when someone
says that they have never seen--or God forbid, never heard of. A
cultural milestone not only for the '90s, America, or modern classics
of film, but for just about any and every country that's able to access
films and cable. I think I'd be lying if I didn't mention that I bawled
buckets in just about every other scene of the movie--I did see this
movie for the first time when I was about 11, but I'd probably cry
buckets nowadays too.Forrest Gump features great direction--Back to the Future, anyone? And
phenomenal acting from Tom Hanks. Perhaps my memory is not too fresh,
but I remember thinking that he didn't win the Oscar for this film and
getting really mad, until I found out that he had indeed won the Oscar
for this film. Wow, okay, I'm not sure why that last statement was
relevant, but to be honest, none of this is relevant so if you're still
reading this crap, it's your own fault.Anyway, back to the lousy movie criticism over a movie I'm sure you'd
have to be an irrational loser to dislike. Music? Wow, cry me a river.
Writing? Yeah, pretty incredible for an adaptation. Umm.. Editing?
Great. I shouldn't be writing a review with the mindset I currently
have. Perhaps I should never write reviews, but I do because I like to,
just like most people on this site.Again with the red herring fallacy! All right, so Forrest Gump is an
amazing movie. It's beautiful in its elegance. The story-telling factor
is really cool--then again, when was the last time voice-over was
considered original? 1944? Voice-over's not always a bad choice. I
think Forrest Gump would be one of the better examples of the practise.The film is particularly skilled at provoking emotion, as well. Who
could possibly dislike Forrest? If the smart were to dislike Forrest
for being less-than-intelligent, wouldn't it be a bit like skinny
people hating fat people and getting insulted for thinking that way as
a result? Or when a white person hates a black person? But of course,
if it were the other way around it would be regarded as rational
thinking? Haha! Ain't it a nice world we live in? I'm certain that I
ruined this review with the amount of topic-changing I did, but it took
a while to write, so I'm still publishing.I sincerely apologise if you read this god-awful review. It's really no
excuse for such a wonderful film. I would recommend it to just about
anyone, though. Even to my enemies, because I think this is a film no
one should die without seeing. It's the perfect '90s film too, made
with great classic cinema elements that don't really appeal to modern
day cinema fans nowadays. I'd guess 2002 was the cut-off for films like
this, but I'm probably wrong.

******
23 March 2014
10
Tom Hanks plays the lovable caring character of Forrest Gump.
Throughout the movie we see history through the eyes of Hanks'
character. Forrest Gump lives a life full of heart ache and love. He
falls in love with Jenny from an early age and spends he live showing
her how he feels even though at times she does not return these
feelings. It is not until the end of the film that they are able to
come together and stay together, this time is but short when Jenny
passes away. Forrest meets many interesting people along his journey
who help shape him into the person he becomes. During his lifetime he
achieves more that any one person could imagine, yet he is not phases
by this, he is more focused what matters in like, which is love and
friendship.

******
21 March 2014
10
Do we have a predetermined destiny or is it all just a coincidence?
Forrest Gump, played by Tom Hanks, is not quite sure but, he is going
to take us on a journey throughout his life and try to figure it out.
Mama or Mrs. Gump, (Sally Fields) serves as his moral compass and tries
to direct her son through life's lessons. She encourages her son to be
himself and he is not different than anyone else, even if he has a low
IQ of 75. His school age love, Jenny (Robin Wright), whom he will
always love, takes on a role to protect him and his innocence. She even
tries to protect him from her life choices.Hank's outstanding and convincing performance takes us through life and
American history through the eyes of incorruptibility and taking each
interaction at face value without the cynical perspective of the
outside world. When faced with life's diversity, Gump equivocally
responds with one of Mrs. Gump's famous life lessons such as, "Stupid
is, as stupid does!" Forrest achieves a lot in his life like, becoming
an All- American football player, being awarded the Medal of Honor, and
last but not least becoming a millionaire. He even meets three
different Presidents. Unintentionally proving that he is capable of
more than what the outside world had imagined and became more
successful in the process. As with anything in life, his great fortune
is also accompanied with loss. He struggles to understand why it has to
be a part of life.Alan Silvestri's magical composition carries us through the emotional
ups and downs of love, loss, and life while smoothly transitioning us
through time. Each piece of the soundtrack corresponds appropriately to
the time period, convincing us even more that that is where we are.In "The Notebook" we are taken on a similar journey through love and
life lessons that spans over a period of history. Throughout the film
you are left to wonder if the two main characters have a predetermined
destiny to be together, much like Gump and Jenny. Robert Zemeckis brilliantly utilizes the floating feather at the
beginning and end of the film as a metaphor for human life. Gump
decides at the end "I don't know if we each have a destiny or if we
are just floatin around accidental like on a breezemaybe it's both
happening at the same time."If you have not watched Forrest Gump, I highly recommend it. You will
not be disappointed!

******
13 March 2014
10
Best movie ever, i can see it over and over again, if you don't seen
yet you need to see it! Is one of those movies that are very very deep
and awaken all kinds of feelings . It has moments of comedy and drama
moments , share the depth and maturity with the ease and innocence,
exudes optimism and pessimism , but above anything tenderness overflows
during each instant during each sequence. The story is extremely
emotional and chronicles the adventures over a lifetime, a big kid , a
person who never lost his innocence , who fought to achieve their
dreams, they always tried to take the right path and that many branded
as having few lights, when the opposite is true . The interpretation of
Tom Hanks is simply masterful!

******
6 March 2014
8
This was a wonderfully sweet and thought provoking film. A must see.Tom Hanks really became the character. Events in the movie spoke to all
regardless of your age. The storyline was very believable and kept you
wanting to see what came next. I enjoyed the fact that the subject
matter was dealt with in a respectful manner.All throughout the movie you could not help but want the hero to win
and felt a strong attachment to him. Sally Fields character spoke to
all women of the time.All in all I really enjoyed the film and would watch it again. It has
staying power and is a keeper.

******
5 March 2014
10
Brilliant. Is there any part Tom Hanks can not play? i mean c'mon this
man is amazing, every role he plays in any film is just spot on,
perfect, he is a true actor and many should learn from him. This is how
to act!.The actor himself is amazing but the film a fantastic, it has
everything a film should... love/romance, humour, gore/blood (not much
though, heartfelt scenes, friendship and more. This film never gets
old, over the years i have watched this film a number of times and i
still love it.Great storyline, great scenes, great actors, what more could you want
in a film. The film is rather long but it never gets boring, it keeps
you hooked right until the end. Personally one of my favourite films of
all time.Well worth a 10 / 10.

******
3 March 2014
10
Using George Wallace symbolic blocking of the doorway to the University
of Alabama (11 June 1963) as a time reference, we know that Forrest is
named to the college football All-America team in 1963 where he later
meets John F Kennedy. However, the Associated Press announced their
All-America team on 6 Dec 1963 - two weeks after JFK was assassinated.
Forrest Gump should never have met JFKUsing George Wallace symbolic
blocking of the doorway to the University of Alabama (11 June 1963) as
a time reference, we know that Forrest is named to the college football
All- America team in 1963 where he later meets John F Kennedy. However,
the Associated Press announced their All-America team on 6 Dec 1963 -
two weeks after JFK was assassinated. Forrest Gump should never have
met JFKUsing George Wallace symbolic blocking of the doorway to the
University of Alabama (11 June 1963) as a time reference, we know that
Forrest is named to the college football All-America team in 1963 where
he later meets John F Kennedy. However, the Associated Press announced
their All- America team on 6 Dec 1963 - two weeks after JFK was
assassinated. Forrest Gump should never have met JFK

******
26 February 2014
10
What makes Forrest Gump great is not the acting or the setting but the
story. It is incredible how it manages to tell the hole life of a man
in only 142 min. Starting from childhood and up to late mid-life. It is
stunning to see his evolution over the years, from high school to army,
businessman and father in the smallest details and it is remarkable how
fluent the storytelling is.Throughout the hole movie I never felt that there was anything out of
order. Everything had it's place and was there to serve a specific
purpose. From the diverse locations to the smallest details like army
uniforms or the relationships with minor or episodic characters.
Nothing was left to chance.All the characters felt believable and natural thanks to the incredible
acting. Tom Hanks really gave life to Forrest, besides this there is
not much else to say, mainly because all the actors gave outstanding
performances.It is not an easy job to win 6 Oscars, but this proves just how good
this movie really is. You can't satisfy everybody, but you can't say
that Forrest Gump is not an outstanding movie that deserves it's place
as one of the best movies of 90's and of all time.

******
22 February 2014
5
Movie that how many times you so and each time you see will be
interesting to watch, filled with a storm of emotion humor, sadness,
action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one, entering a
different world in a different story, that not everyone can
understand... Tom is a wonderful actor and after the successful movies
he deserves an Oscar ... Tom Hanks leads a phenomenal cast giving the
performance of his life. The way this film introduces the main
character throughout various historical milestones is extremely well
done and it captures the viewers attention from beginning to end. I
recommend this movie...

******
21 February 2014
10
On July 6th, 1994, this country was introduced to another movie that
will go down as one of the all-time greatest films in United States
history. This movie is Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994), and it was
directed by Robert Zemeckis. Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) will always
be known as one of the best films of all times as years go by. It is
the story of a simple minded man from Greenbow, Alabama, named Forrest
Gump, who lives life in the moment and succeeds in everything he does
as he finds himself contributing to many historical events of the mid
twentieth century without even trying. There are many different aspects
to this film that make it great, but there are a few significant ones
that stand out among the rest. The significant aspects that make this
such a great film include the use of Tom Hanks, the memorable
soundtrack, historical references, and the heart-warming love story.Tom Hanks is the star in the film Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) as he
plays the role of the main character, Forrest Gump. Tom Hanks had been
a big time actor in Hollywood even prior to his outstanding performance
in this movie as he also starred in films such as Big, A League of
Their Own, and Sleepless in Seattle. Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) was
not an easy movie to play the lead role in as he had to play the role
as a mentally challenged man with an I.Q. of seventy five and keep that
role consistent through the entire movie. This role cannot be easily
achieved by just anyone, but Tom Hanks went above and beyond playing
the role of Forrest Gump. Tom Hanks earned himself an abundance of
awards from this movie that consisted of a Golden Globe, an Academy
Award, a Screen Actors Guild Award, and a People's Choice Award for
Best Actor, becoming only the fourth actor to win consecutive awards.The soundtrack of Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) is another aspect that
makes this movie so great. A movie's soundtrack can really set the tone
for a scene, and the soundtrack of Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994)
succeeded in setting a good tone with its choice of music. The movie's
setting takes place from the mid to late twentieth century, and the
movie's soundtrack is mostly based around that time setting with songs
from that era. The soundtrack consisted of many 1960 and 1970s artists
and bands such as Creedence Clearwater Revival, Elvis Presley, the
Beach Boys, Simon & Garfunkel, Lynyrd Skynyrd, and many more. The
soundtrack of the movie really set the feel of the time setting it was
placed in. The soundtrack was rated among the top ten for several
months in the Billboard 200 album chart when the movie was first
released.The historical references in this movie make things a little bit more
interesting through the way Forrest Gump somehow finds himself
contributing to them. Throughout the movie Forrest Gump found himself
in a lot of significant moments of US history without even knowing it.
The first reference was in the beginning of the movie when Forrest
reveals that he was named after Nathan Bedford Forrest, who was the
leader of the Ku Klux Klan. Another example is when Forrest was a young
boy his mother had a bed and breakfast, and they had a young musician
staying with them by the name of Elvis Presley. Forrest had braces on
his legs and was dancing to the music Elvis Presley was playing on his
guitar. This dance that Forrest had displayed to Presley ended up being
Presley's signature move when he became famous. Later on in Forrest's
life, he was staying in the Watergate hotel where he witnessed the
Watergate Scandal. Forrest called the front desk and told them what he
saw, and, without even knowing it, he was the reason President Nixon
was impeached for the Watergate Scandal. Many other significant parts
of U.S. history were referenced in the movie such as the Vietnam War,
in which Forrest fought in, the Black Panthers, the hippie movement,
and even more. This movie does a good job of showing how the U.S.
progressed from the 1960s through the 1980s to make this movie more
interesting.Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) not only provides a sense of humor and
drama throughout the movie, but it also has a twist of love throughout
the movie as well. Forrest fell in love quickly with a girl named Jenny
when he meets her on the bus for his first day of school. He and Jenny
spent most of their childhood together, but seem to fade apart as their
lives went on. However, this did not keep Forrest from maintaining his
love for her. Despite Jenny eluding him, Forrest did not let her go and
continued to love her. Forrest and Jenny end up having a baby together
and get married in order for Forrest to be the father of the child.
This love story puts a great twist in the movie to put an emotional
toll on the audience. It shows that anybody can love anybody despite
any circumstances.Overall, Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) is a great movie with a great
message that will go down as one of the all-time best. The movie
contains many different aspects that lead it to being such a great
film. The use of Tom Hanks, the memorable soundtrack, historical
references, and the heart-warming love story, all make this movie what
it is. Forrest Gump (Zemeckis, 1994) will be a film that people will
watch and love for a long time.

******
21 February 2014
10
When I first heard about this movie I was interested to see what it was
about. so, after talking to some friends I finally bought it and it was
a magical film. It shows us The highs, lows and loves of life and how
the world can be cruel and unfair but we just have to keep going.
Forrest tells strangers the story of how he met Jenny, and how he
accomplished many things through out his life like joining the army and
earns the Medal of Honor, playing for America's national football team,
being the world ping pong champion and owning Bubba Gump shrimp company
but without taking these into consideration for his one true goal was
to love Jenny but she would always slip away causing trouble for
herself and over- protective Forrest. But finally the see each other
but once again she leaves but with good reason. The story ends showing
Forrest marrying Jenny after she tells him she left because she was
carrying a child, his child but sadly Jenny passes away from a disease
some time on, but Forrest continues to love and care for their son.

******
15 February 2014
8
Forrest Gump. Is simply impossible to dislike this film. While it don't
has nothing groundbreaking or 'special' about it, is so...pleasant. Is
a pleasure to watch this film, really. Is pleasant to the point of
being almost a fault. If there is any film that deserves the title of
'greatest crowd-pleaser' , that one for sure is Forrest Gump. It's above all a story about happiness, overcoming, driven by a
uplifting atmosphere and involving segments(the Vietnam, the famous
ending, the president's meetings) and while it has a few dramatic
moments, it never takes itself too seriously to the point of turning
the moment in a 'manipulative mess, like some directors usually do.
Forrest Gump, believe in it or not, is not a manipulative film. It
flows naturally. Tom Hanks is spectacular here. He is brilliant as Forrest Gump, I
honestly believed he was 'retarded'. All his child mannerisms were
convincing. And the ending is so...great! He watching his kid entering
in the bus, realizing that he would suffer the same troubles that
himself passed through, is arguably the most heart-breaking scene in
the entire film.Thiw film is not really...how can I say...well, Forrest Gump isn't
really important for the filmmaking story, like Pulp Fiction is, for
example , but still a very good film, regardless. You will not regret
watching it. 8.5/10

******
9 February 2014
9
Such and inspirational movie. Had watched this movie 3 times already
(not in a purpose) and had such impression like I never watched it. It
shows us that some -what so called not ordinary- people can do better
than ordinary people. Never look down on what people do, there must be
something in the end. "Forrest" in this movie did whatever he feels
right and when he did it, he gave maximum effort without ever
compromising it (at least that was I saw). I would suggest this movie
for those who has little faith in his/her self. I myself see this movie
as wake up call. That's the reason why I wrote this review. Pardon my
bad English.

******
8 February 2014
9
Forrest Gump is one of my favorite movies of all time. Definitely a
classic you have to see it. It starts when Forrest is a little kid and
being bullied. Jenny helps him run away from the bullies. He loves
Jenny, even more when he grows up. He loves being at her place, by the
tree. He lives with his mother but when he's about 20 he needs to go to
Vietnam and there he meets the Genera (Gary Sinise). He saves the
general but he isn't happy about it. But they eventually start being
friends.This movie is about friendship and love. But my absolute favorite from
the movie is Forrest's quote; Life is like a chocolate box, you never
know what you get.

******
31 January 2014
10
This movie always inspire me about life, work, love etc. "Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time, guaranteed. I
really just love this movie and it has such a special place in my
heart. The performances are just so unforgettable and never get out of
your head. The characters, I mean the actors turned into them and
that's what got to me. The lines are so memorable, touching, and
sometimes hilarious. This movie is incredible and should be seen by
everyone. I am not kidding, "Forrest Gump" is a remarkable movie and
inspires everyone. It's not just about someone stupid who happens to be
in great places and historic events just because of being in the right
place at the right time. This story is beautiful and will inspire
everyone to go the distance and see the world like Forrest did and will
never give up on their dreams.I will just say this one is excellent movie from my favorite movie
list.

******
21 January 2014
9
I think Tom Hanks did an excellent job along with all actors and
actresses involved. This film is a classic piece and will always
cherish it. Great job to everyone participated on this project. For the
director, great cast members. Also the sound track was excellent, great
stuff. My favorite part of this film was when Forest was running, it
was like "Run forest, run. That lines got me hooked into the film.
However, as the film continue, you can see that Forest was a great,
going to war, helping others around his community. I also like the
Captain,I think the captain did a fantastic job as supporting actor. I
always that guy in Ransom with Mel Gibson, he has a face of great
character.

******
21 January 2014
9
First time I watched it, I was 6 y.o, I'm now 25 and I feel always the
same when I re-watch this piece of legend. I have may be watched it 20
or 25 times. I grew up with it. I learn a lot from it. This is one of
the most emotional movie ever. Always goosebumps, tears and full
compassion for Forrest. I put 9 out of 10 because for me there is no
perfection. But consider my rate as a 9,99 with Forrest Gump. It
deserve all awards wined. All the actors involved are at their top.
When we begin the movie, we never want to pause it. As the story go, we
can't escape. The original soundtrack is also a piece of legend. 142
minutes full of emotions. I can easily tell the best quotes of the
movie as they're unforgettable. I will watch it again for sure, I
always recommend it to people. That's all I can say about it, if you
have not watched it, HURRY UP ! You won't be disappointed...

******
20 January 2014
9
Forrest Gump is one of my favorite movies of all time; I even liked the
movie more than the book. (Which is rare.) I saw the movie before I
read the book; because the movie convinced me to read the book.
Naturally, I thought the book would be outstanding because the movie
was amazing and usually the books are better than the movie
adaptations. The book was good, but had nothing on the movie. Sorry I'm
not sorry. The book had a lot of profanity, which I didn't mind until
it became overkill. The book does not have the "run Forrest run"
scenes, nor did Forrest have a brace on his leg. Jenny and Forrest in
the beginning of the book didn't even have a good relationship. Also,
in my opinion, the book made Forrest have more of a rough personality,
while in the movie, although tough, he was a sweetheart. I was so
frustrated with the book that I didn't even finish it, it's sitting on
my dresser; still containing a bookmark and all.

******
20 January 2014
10
"Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what your gonna
get..."And that famous quote begins a masterful story of a man named Forrest
Gump. Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump who basically tells his life stories
to people on a park bench around the bus stop. His life stories include
the Vietnam war, genius Ping Pong skills, being in the All American
football team, meeting President Kennedy, great running, making
friends, falling in love with a childhood friend and being in a great
shrimp company. We see his life story as flashbacks and we enjoy them,
of course. I've never seen a movie quite like Forrest Gump. This movie
made me laugh, cry and warmed my heart. Robin Wright portrays Jenny,
Forrest's best friend since they were six years old and Sally Field is
fantastic as Forrest's wise and caring mother. But the character that
is considered to be my favorite character is Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan,
who was with Forrest and the rest of the troops during the war. At
first, his character's lifestyle made me feel sad, but later on Lt. Dan
thanks Forrest for saving his life and enjoyed life as it is. Forrest
saved his life during the war and later on, he had to be amputated.
This movie is one of my personal favorites and Robert Zemeckis' best
film that he directed. The ending works out perfect too. Forrest is at
the park bench because he's meeting Jenny and an elderly woman tells
him that the apartment she lives in, is just around the corner. Forrest
hops out of his seat and manages to find Jenny and also finds out that
he is the cause of Jenny's 8 year old son. Afterwards, Forrest and
Jenny get married and Lt. Dan shows up at the wedding with his new
fiance. Now we see that Lt. Dan is stabled and has changed his life.
Later on, Jenny tells Forrest that she has an unrecognizable virus. At
first I thought that it was because of Jenny's bad decisions in the
past. And then Jenny passed away of sexually transmitted diseases. We
later see Forrest talking to Jenny's grave and promising her that he
will take care of their son... And he does. I have to be honest with
you, when I first saw Forrest Gump, I was disappointed because of
Jenny's death, but then I saw it again and I love it. I now realize
that it was meant to be. She can't just live, knowing that she made
risky and bad decisions. But the movie still had a heartwarming and
sweet ending, involving Forrest saying goodbye to his son, who is going
to school. This beautiful scene reminds me of Forrest's first day at
school. And as Forrest says goodbye, the feather that he collected at the start
of the film, flew out of the Curious George book and it took us away
from a film that is built to perfection. Definitely one of my classic
favorites.

******
20 January 2014
8
Almost Anyone can become Amazingly Successful in America, just Look at
those who have run for President and Vice President of the United
States and some have Actually Won. Arguably not Our Best and Brightest.This is Excellent Entertainment, but could be Dangerous Entertainment.
It's like those Infamous Subliminal Messages you Hear about that Enter
the Subconscious without Your Consent or Knowledge. In this Movie
nothing is Hidden, it is Unabashedly Up-Front about its Intent.This is a Fun Film but be Advised. It has a Political and Social
Agenda. In one of the First Scenes the Audience is shown how Forrest
got His Name. From one of the Founders of the Ku Klux Klan. And We're
off and Running.Gump's Unanswered Love for His Sweetheart Jenny is Hammered Home
throughout and She, along with any other Liberals are Treated here with
Contempt and Her Behavior towards Forrest Gump is more than
Contemptful, it is Hateful until the Bitter End in this "Sweet" Movie. If this Film is Approached with just a Little Cultural Awareness and
Realize that it is Manipulating the Audience on All Levels, it can be
Enjoyed as a Philosophical Point of View on any Number of Subjects. But
the Filmmakers Know that most Folks are not that Discerning and Therein
Lies the Danger.

******
18 January 2014
9
This movie is a rare masterpiece that stirs every human emotion and
sparks magic within the imaginations of those who watch it. Tom Hanks
leads a phenomenal cast giving the performance of his life. The way
this film introduces the main character throughout various historical
milestones is extremely well done and it captures the viewers attention
from beginning to end. I recommend this movie to both avid movie
critics and the casual watcher. I have seen this film several times and
have owned it for years. This movie caused me to fall in love with
movies at a very young age and still to this day I find inspiration
within its characters and gripping story line.

******
13 January 2014
10
This movie is one of my all-time favorites! Tom Hanks' acting was
absolutely incredible in this movie and he became a legend. This movie
has its funny moments involving Tom and it has its romantic and sad
movies that made me cry. When sad scenes were happening in this film, I
feel like Tom was actually hurt and when there were situations that I
would normally come across in life, I would feel like I could actually
jump inside of my television and relive it. Honestly, I didn't even find anything wrong with this movie. I
definitely had my moments where I actually felt sorry for some of the
characters even though I know it was just acting. But that's how good
their actings were. I really like the soundtrack in this movie as well,
especially the soft piano music in the introduction.

******
12 January 2014
10
One of my all time favorite movies, good to laugh & cry at... I always
watch this when it comes on and I always gotta box of tissue beside
me!!! Now, on to something funny!!!!!!! Jenny didn't deserve Forrest.
Gary Sinise is even better than you remember in this movie. And I still
cried several times despite myself. Three generations of history told
through the eyes of a retard... This movie never gets old. God I love
this movie <3 Can't believe this movie will be 20 years old this year!
Still one of my all time favorites. And still makes me cry after all
these years. NoShame ForrestGump I've been crying through the whole
movie. Can't help it, I just love Forrest, he melts my heart.

******
6 January 2014
10
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen! Tom Hanks at his best!
It has everything. It can make you laugh and cry, be afraid and high,
happy and sad, glad and mad, fall in love and even make you starve...
All of those, a whole lifetime, in only 142 minutes. very very very
recommended movie!the story of the movie is about a low I.Q boy and his life since he was
a little kid through his youth and all the way to his grownup years.
you can see his Interaction with the people around him all his life.
how he can manage a "normal" life and to be at center of an American
main events as the Vietnam war, and buying a "fruit" company while he
is so innocence...

******
4 January 2014
10
The story of Forrest Gump is the best hope story that we have receive
in the cinema story. It's a movie where we can see Tom Hanks at his
best in a role of a very different guy than what we saw in Big, Apollo
13 or most recently in Captain Phillips or Saving Mr Banks. Alan
Silvestri composed his best soundtrack ever with the Main Titles of the
movie that we will never heard enough. A classic that will be watch
again in 30, 40 and 50 years. All the other actors are also very good,
each character have his different personality that when they're with
others, it becomes so magic to see them in the population, like Bubba,
the shrimp fisher, he's so funny and emotional when they're at war.

******
1 January 2014
8
The fact that the movie was 1 of the 20 most overrated movies, is so
not true, i think Forrest Gump is an amazing movie and Tom does a
fantastic job playing Forrest! Also the movie is on the top 250 list of
the best movies on IMDb, and i think it's completely deserved.All in all a great movie, that i think everyone should see at least
once!Because it's a very long movie i'll see it a day where i am hungover or
if you just need a day in the bed or on the couch Watch it Watch it Watch it Watch itPeace out

******
16 December 2013
10
"Forrest Gump" is one of the best contemporary films in the last couple
of decades; it sees Tom Hanks's portrayal of an innocent, humble
individual who goes by the name of Forrest Gump and sees his humble
side conquer all as he becomes a success at everything he does but deep
down behind all the success and fame is just a simple man who cares for
human nature and loses everything he once loved.This timeless classic has everything from drama, to romance, to
violence to comedy to heartache. As a result it is difficult to
determine what genre of film it really is.A truly inspirational and heart-warming film that also allows for a bit
of American History, and helps people who don't know a great deal about
United States of America a further insight into their heritage and
culture. Although admittedly some of the historical events are not
portrayed that factually. What makes this film so good is Robert Zemeckis attention to detail and
is simply wonderfully directed. The story is what attracts so many
people to Forrest Gump and it is wonderfully told through the direction
of Robert Zemeckis. The super-imposed clips are superb in which Forrest
Gump meets John F Kennedy, it looks like he was actually there at the
time of recording through superb visual effects. Alan Silvestri music is chilling and beautiful as well and simply adds
to such an iconic film, the simple tune at the beginning when the
feather is seamlessly flowing in the wind. Eric Roth's script work is
excellent and achieved some of the most memorable film quotes of all
time.However, not everyone agrees that it is contemporary classic and some
feel that it is totally overrated, echoes right-wing views and is too
soppy and sentimental. However, I totally disagree you have to delve
deep within the story to really understand the message.

******
7 December 2013
9
I do not get tired of watching this film. A beautiful story that really
drives home the point that life IS like a box of chocolates. Great
metaphors backed up corresponding scenes of life. The love he had for
his mother was very touching as was her belief in Forrest. The combat
scenes were terrifying. The love story playing out both beautiful and
tragic. The lifetime friendship and bond he had with his lieutenant was
awesome. Some of the best boot camp scenes EVER. I learned 100
different ways that one can prepare shrimp. He was a total boss when he
brought the huge check to Bubbas family. I would wholly recommend this
film and would watch it again, for the 50th time.

******
6 December 2013
10
This movie was amazing. I loved it. Once you start watching it you
can't stop. Its so entreating and captivating that you just have to
watch it. A must see film! it's sad at times. Definitely funny at
times.This whole movie is great. I honestly don't think there is a part
that I don't absolutely love. Its life inspiring and even educational
in some parts. Not some much as school education, but life education.
Makes you think that life can really truly be amazing and full of
surprises. This movie is and should be the number one of all times. Tom
Hanks was just a overall spectacular actor. He does great in any movie
he is in. One of my most favorite actors. Well acted man.

******
30 November 2013
10
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream.The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not
the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a
thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages between the 1950s
and the 1980s to become involved in every major event in American
history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his
shields.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The
movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of
a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are.
Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role.I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him
into a person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a
breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich
in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field) who
tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but who never
criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid," his mother tells
him, "Stupid is as stupid does," and Forrest turns out to be incapable
of doing anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally
fall from his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind.That's how he gets a college football scholarship, in a life story that
eventually becomes a running gag about his good luck. Gump the football
hero becomes Gump the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump
the Ping-Pong champion, Gump the shrimp boat captain, Gump the
millionaire stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named
Apple Computer), and Gump the man who runs across America and then
retraces his steps.It could be argued that with his IQ of 75 Forrest does not quite
understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands
everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just
surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love,
although Jenny, the girl he falls in love with in grade school and
never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't know what
love is." She is a stripper by that time.The movie is ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American
history. The director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic
that special effects can do (his credits include the "Back To The
Future" movies and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"), and here he uses
computerized visual legerdemain to place Gump in historic situations
with actual people.Forrest stands next to the schoolhouse door with George Wallace, he
teaches Elvis how to swivel his hips, he visits the White House three
times, he's on the Dick Cavett show with John Lennon, and in a sequence
that will have you rubbing your eyes with its realism, he addresses a
Vietnam-era peace rally on the Mall in Washington. Special effects are
also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt. Dan
(Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who quite convincingly loses his legs.Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is able
to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound in
what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox." And the biggest laugh in the
movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in
Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. (That's not the laugh,
just the setup.) As Forrest's life becomes a guided tour of
straight-arrow America, Jenny (played by Robin Wright) goes on a
parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course,
and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. She's into psychedelics and
flower power, antiwar rallies and love-ins, drugs and needles.
Eventually it becomes clear that between them Forrest and Jenny have
covered all of the landmarks of our recent cultural history, and the
accommodation they arrive at in the end is like a dream of
reconciliation for our society. What a magical movie.

******
29 November 2013
9
I really love this film because the acting in this movie is just
amazing. Especially Tom Hanks, "My mama always said, life is like a box
of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna' get." That right there
is my favorite line in the whole movie! I highly recommend watching
this film because it will make you laugh, cry, and your eyes will be
glued to your T.V. until the credits roll off the screen. I watch this
movie all the time with my family and every time I watch it, it gets
even better. There is a really sad moment in the movie where Forrest's
good friend dies at war. It really made me tear up. Another sad part
that got to me was when Forrest put the letter on the grave and walked
away, man that got to me. this film is so inspirational. You must
watch! Well done!

******
25 November 2013
10
CONTAINS SPOILERS SO PLEASE Don't READ IF YOU Haven't SEEN THE MOVIE
AND Don't WANT TO KNOW DETAILS WITHIN THE MOVIE. THANK YOU, LISAI found this movie to have so many different elements to it, happy,
funny, sad, drama and more. It was moving and cried with the emotional
parts. I have a disability and live life in a wheelchair and am
considered learning disabled because I have attention deficit
hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and even though I have this I am still
very smart. Forest was much better than people expected and he won
people over with his love of life and loyalty to the people around him.
His unrequited love for Jenny was something most people dream of having
someone to love them that deeply. He would do anything for her. This
movie follows Forest Gump from childhood into adulthood and his
childhood love for Jenny then through him loosing his mom and onward.
It was moving when he saw the child staring back at him when he
recognized the child had his own eyes, meaning the child was his. I was
able to relate to the character of Forrest Gump on a deeply profound
level and if you have any depth to yourself then you should be able to
do the same with this movie. I don't want to give away to much about
the movie if you haven't seen it yet and decided to go ahead and read
this review. I hope you enjoy the movie as much as I did and it is as
inspiring to you as it was to me. Enjoy the movie, Lisa

******
23 October 2013
10
A Classic i loved it it would be good for people that like funny
classics. i cant stress how good this is... i mean i love the army i
love tom hanks, which was and is in this movie, a incredible actor but
i wish the writers have portrays dote character as a man with a love
lace loser kids eat u every little poop u Borg beriberi GB G A Classic
i loved it it would be good for people that like funny classics. i cant
stress how good this is... i mean i love the army i love tom hanks,
which was and is in this movie, a incredible actor but i wish the
writers have portrays dote character as a man with a love lace loser
kids eat u every little poop u Borg beriberi GB G A Classic i loved it
it would be good for people that like funny classics. i cant stress how
good this is... i mean i love the army i love tom hanks, which was and
is in this movie, a incredible actor but i wish the writers have
portrays dote character as a man with a love lace loser kids eat u
every little poop u Borg beriberi GB G A Classic i loved it it would be
good for people that like funny classics. i cant stress how good this
is... i mean i love the army i love tom hanks, which was and is in this
movie, a incredible actor but i wish the writers have portrays dote
character as a man with a love lace loser kids eat u every little poop
u Borg beriberi GB G

******
22 October 2013
9
What an amazing story and moving meaning. That movie teaches you so
much about life and the meaning of it. That life isn't as bad as most
people make it seem. That an innocent man can impact so many lives with
his innocence. The meaning of the movie to me is that everyone needs to
have a better outlook on life. That we need to appreciate more of the
little things and not let the big things hold us back. That truly
although life may throw us trials and tribulations like a box of
chocolates but that we have to just bite into it and get through it
even if we don't like it. That we all need to hold true to our values
and not sink into a place that feels like there's no hope.

******
22 October 2013
10
"Stupid is as stupid does," says Forrest Gump (played by Tom Hanks in
an Oscar-winning performance) as he discusses his relative level of
intelligence with a stranger while waiting for a bus. Despite his
sub-normal IQ, Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a ringside seat
for many of the most memorable events of the second half of the 20th
century. Entirely without trying, Forrest teaches Elvis Presley to
dance, becomes a football star, meets John F. Kennedy, serves with
honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks at an anti-war rally at
the Washington Monument, hangs out with the Yippies, defeats the
Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard Nixon, discovers
the break-in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping business,
becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides to run
back and forth across the country for several years. Meanwhile, as the
remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets Jenny
(Robin Wright Penn), the girl he loved as a boy, who makes her own
journey through the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more
troubled than the path Forrest happens upon. Featured alongside Tom
Hanks are Sally Field as Forrest's mother; Gary Sinise as his
commanding officer in Vietnam; Mykelti Williamson as his ill-fated Army
buddy who is familiar with every recipe that involves shrimp; and the
special effects artists whose digital magic place Forrest amidst a
remarkable array of historical events and people. ~ Mark Deming, Rovi

******
19 October 2013
10
Simply put, this is one of the greatest movies ever to be made in the
history of Hollywood.Humor, sadness, drama, action, you name it and its in it! All put
together perfectly into one movie which is flawlessly portrayed by Tom
Hanks.I'm not a stone cold, heartless guy but it takes a lot to make me cry
when I watch a movie. In my opinion, no film has ever touched me more than this one, or of
there are any more then this most definitely will be in top 3.I can't say it enough times. This is the film anybody can watch and
enjoy it. This is the film of all time!! Watch it and you'll see what
I'm talking about.

******
15 October 2013
10
Many Lessons for life in this movie. Entertaining and Enlightening.
Life is short... make the most of it while not hurting others.Please watch the movie when you have time to enjoy the whole thing in
one sitting. The story line is time sensitive for the entertainment.Take note of the soundtrack that enhances the movie experience.Popcorn OK.Full range of feelings in this movie. Sad, Happy, Glad, Mad.Best enjoyed with some one else who appreciates a good story and
willing to discuss after the viewing.This movie won awards for many reasons. Please appreciate all the
aspects of the movie.

******
7 October 2013
8
The first time I've saw this movie was in an English's class (I'm
French). I've had heard of this movie since I was little but I've
always thought he wasn't my type of movie. But even if I don't like
slow movie like that (I'm more an action/scy-fy type),it isn't like the
other movie of that kind. Tom Hanks in this movie bring you in the mind
of this "retarded" boy and show you that even people with "low"
capacity are extraordinary. His play is so good that he brings you in
the mind of that boy. This kind of subject never really been treated
before neither after that this movie has been made and for the epoque
this movie treats of a taboo subject that people was effrayed to
expose. So if you didn't already watch it, you have to!!

******
6 October 2013
10
Okay, maybe I'm not the one of baby-bomber generation (generation that
born after world war II), but I am still get what the movie mean. Yes,
for me, "Forrest Gump" is an unique yet simple and funny movie. I love
the point of view of the film, very simple but deep. You know, I think
a child or maybe the unintelligent people have their own view that
mostly people haven't. And, that's one cause that make this movie so
special. About the acting, yes, Tom Hanks did outstanding act, that
makes me thought that Tom Hanks is really Forrest Gump. The way he
speaks or walks were very different from other Tom Hanks' movies. The
first time I watch the movie, I even think that Forrest Gump is real.
And after I read many reviews and FAQ, I know that Forrest Gump just a
fictional-character of baby-bomber generation. As I said, after I watch
this movie four times, I still get new messages of this film. And for
some scenes, I still affected and inspired. What an amazing movie!

******
2 October 2013
10
1994's Oscar winning Forrest Gump may be one of the best movies to
date. Tom Hanks plays a young man by the name of Forrest Gump, a man
who isn't too bright but lives a plentiful and, what some may say,
'rollercoaster' life. Unaware of the world Forrest sets off, feet first
and faces many obstacles that he overcomes. As we are taken through
Forrest Gump's life, the viewer is filled with a rush of emotions:
excitement, fear, hope and most importantly love. The story between
Forrest and his childhood sweetheart, Jenny is definitely one of the
most hearts breaking, and inspiring love stories of any romantic movie
ever. The viewer is able to relate to Forrest's tremendously rough life
as we have all been through difficult times. Forrest Gump is a
life-changing movie that changes the way one views life. The confidence
Forrest Gump has and exerts throughout his life is truly admirable.
Forrest courageous pursuance of success and happiness is one for the
book. Many movies that focus on one than more genres tend to focus on
primarily one genre. Forrest Gump is a comedy, a drama, and a romantic
film and director Robert Zemeckis does a great job at portraying each
genre cohesively. Forrest Gump is a great movie for all ages. If you
are looking for a movie that is profound and an all time classic, you
are looking at the right place. As one of the top 30 grossing movies of
all time you are sure to enjoy the captivating story of one of the most
heroic and dynamic fictional characters, Forrest Gump.

******
30 September 2013
8
Quite simple, the greatest film ever made.This movie is simply one of the greatest movie ever made. Its a mixture
of love, danger, drugs, and lot and lots of running. This movie is still going strong and it 2013. That is amazing not even
any of the movies made this year is still going this strong.That is amazing that just tells you that this movie is great very bit
as worthy for the Oscar. And anything else that it might get. I can't
say it enough watch this movie and I bet it will make you cry.I cannot say it enough: This is THE top film of all time. Watch it
you'll see.

******
29 September 2013
9
Forrest Gump sums up American pop culture from the 60s to the 90s. The
impossible to dislike protagonist Forrest Gump takes the film on an
unforgettable journey through some of America's most famous moments.
One of Tom Hanks' best performances and with a top notch director like
Robert Zemeckis, it is hard to go wrong. Every single aspect of the
film falls together perfectly, the supporting cast, cinematography, and
especially the soundtrack give this movie everything it needs. At
times, it may seem clich and unrealistic, but its really the heart of
this movie that makes you fall in love with it. Forrest Gump is a must
see for everyone.

******
28 September 2013
7
I LOVED this movie. It was so cutely written. The fortune's of a man
who decided to take all the steps he needed to not only run, but to run
for the one he loves. Forest Gump isn't just a POV of the 'simple
minded' on heir views of love, but it's also the triumph you feel for
him. Despite everything, home really was were the heart is. This movie
will cause you to open your heart and your mind, following Gump on his
journey of determination to prove he could be a real man for Jenny. He
didn't stay down when he was bullied and he didn't, as most humans
selfishly do, think of only himself. I would definitely recommend this
movie for families to watch, it will always be a family classic.

******
25 September 2013
10
For as long as i remember my brother and friend have been convincing me
to watch this movie but i said i will one day. Few days ago i finally
did and WOW it blew me away O_O it was such an awesome experience. I
recommend this movie to everyone if you are like me waiting for almost
20 years lol :D the story of the movie is told by Forrest Gump in the
famous bus stop then movie goes into flash backs as he is explaining.
this is a great adventure that shouldn't be missed and you should watch
the Blu-ray version because its cheap and really great. This has to be
my Favorite Tom Hanks movie and i think its the movie that made him so
famous. i give this movie 10/10

******
24 September 2013
9
This movie is excellent because of its supporting characters. The movie
takes place during the 1950's to 1970's, and follows the journey of a
simple man living in Alabama, named Forrest Gump. The movie starts off
with him describing his childhood to a complete stranger, while waiting
for a bus at the bus stop, and continues to tell his story to several
different strangers. When he is telling his story he reveals that he
fought in Vietnam, met a few presidents, and even won the Medal of
Honor. Throughout his story, Forrest has a huge impact on the people in
his life, which also have the same effect on him. I like the movie
Forrest Gump because the plot hooks you right from the beginning, with
supporting characters that make their own unique contribution to
Forrest's life. In Forrest Gump there are four supporting characters named Mama,
Lieutenant Dan, Jenny, and Bubba. Each of these four supporting
characters has an effect on Forrest's overall story. Mama is Forrest's
mother, and is the foundation for his life. Mama is the character who
raised him, taught him right from wrong, and was always able to help
him by explaining the aspects of life in a unique way. For example,
when Forrest asks what happened to his father, his mother says "he is
on vacation" and uses this to explain that the father left them.
Lieutenant Dan is the Lieutenant in charge of Forrest while he is
serving in Vietnam. Lieutenant Dan is the man that inspires Forrest to
be a better person, and to never leave a man behind. After Vietnam, the
two of them go into the shrimping business together and make a lot of
money. Initially when Forrest first meets Lieutenant Dan, Dan is very
hostile. Once they go into the shrimping business together, Forrest
mentions that Dan has "coming to Jesus" moment, which I think was
influenced by Forrest. Jenny Curran is in my opinion the most important
supporting character in the entire movie, because she is constantly
Forrest's object of affection. In the beginning of the movie, they
first meet on the school bus, where Forrest compares Jenny to an angel.
From that point on, they become best friends and is mentioned that they
are "like peas and carrots". In every significant event in Forrest's
life, Forrest always mentions something about Jenny or that he misses
her. They have several encounters throughout the entire movie, with one
of them resulting to parenthood for Jenny and Forrest. Towards the end
of the movie, Jenny reveals that she has some kind of virus but the
doctors do not know what it is, and ends up asking Forrest to marry
her. Forrest and Jenny get married, but unfortunately Jenny dies
shortly after. This leaves Forrest to raise their son on his own. Bubba
is the last supporting character, and is Forrest's other best friend,
besides Jenny. Forrest meets Bubba in Vietnam, and persuades Forrest to
go into the shrimping business.Overall this is a must-see movie because of its use of supporting
characters to heavily influence the main character's thought process
and way of life. It is more interesting to watch a movie or TV show
when you care not only about the main character, but the supporting
characters as well. You're more intrigued to watch the entire movie
because you want to know what the resolution is for everyone, because
it is fairly easy to predict the outcome for the main character a
majority of the time. In conclusion, I like the movie Forrest Gump
because the plot hooks you right from the beginning, with supporting
characters that make their own unique contribution to Forrest's life.

******
22 September 2013
10
Forrest Gump is a feat in cinematic history. It has set a new (high)
standard for movies. So, why the hate? This movie I have seen on both
most overrated and worst Best Picture Winners list. It is my favorite
movie. However, on the other hand, it is also on Top Best Picture
Winners lists. Forrest Gump has virtually anything you could want in a
movie (besides crime). It has action (war violence), comedy, drama,
romance... This list could go on and on. I'm simply saying this: this
movie is fantastic, I love it, and it is a MUST-SEE for film fans (and
anyone else). By the way, I cried, and I have never cried in a movie
before. This movie is golden, it won six Oscars (and should have won
more) and ignore the negative reviews. You don't know Forrest Gump
until you've seen it.

******
18 September 2013
9
Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump in Robert Zemekis's Academy Award
winning(Best picture, director, & actor) fable about a simple and
honest man who finds himself floating through life like(the
ever-present) feather in the wind. He is often bullied growing up, but
finds solace in his best friend Jenny, whom he comes to love dearly as
they get older. She tells him to "run Forrest, run" and he does, and
one day runs into a football game, inspiring the coach to put him on
the team, which makes him more popular, though at graduation he joins
the military, where he fits right in, much to the bewilderment of his
superior officer, Lt. Dan(played by Gary Sinise) whose life he saves,
giving him a medal and inspiring him to be a Ping-Pong champion, where
he meets three different U.S. Presidents, and later becomes a
multi-millionaire by investing in "a fruit company" that takes off in a
big way. He loves his mother(played by Sally Field) and takes her
departure quite hard, running a marathon across the country for years,
until he meets up with the elusive Jenny once again...Epic-scale character study is supremely well crafted and acted,
remaining a funny, moving, and inspired drama about how one good man
can affect the world around him, and still not know it, and remain
uncorrupted by it. A truly marvelous achievement by all.

******
29 July 2013
9
'Forrest Gump' was, and still is a wonderful and magical movie. Forrest
grows up as a mentally and physically challenged kid who goes on to
inspire others and represent what is good and bad in American life,
essentially embodying the idea of 'The American Dream'. The wonderful
and clever use of inserting Tom Hanks (as Forrest) into the famous
clips of notable people (from JFK to John Lennon) is gimmicky but it
works and makes for a marvelous film. The period feeling of he times
that Forrest moves through from meeting Elvis to serving in the Vietnam
War are so real. Forrest Gump is a kind of biography of the USA from
the 50's to the 80's and has a lot to say about these times. This is a
great movie!

******
25 July 2013
8
"Forrest Gump," is a movie about a man named; you guessed it, Forrest
Gump, who has an IQ of 75. Ever since he was young, he was taunted and
left out due to the fact that he wore leg braces and was labeled as
"Stupid." But Forrest doesn't let that stop him from growing up and
being successful. "Forrest Gump," is an emotional roller-coaster. One
minute you are enlighten and joyful, and the next minute you're in
tears. This movie is so much more that one story. It's a story of an
eluding lover, an unbreakable friendship, a brave soldier, and a
mothers everlasting love. But most of all, it is the story of a man who
takes things for what they are and does it with a smile.

******
24 July 2013
10
This movie will keep you interested from the beginning until the end,
presenting Forrest's journey through life with the good and the bad,
everything being related through his mind in a simple way, making him a
complex character. The chapters of his life are not too long so it will
make you more interested in this character. Also the characters he
meets and the places he passes by, vary from one to another, making his
life truly like a box of chocolates. Most of the scenes inspire warmth
and familiarity and that's why, if you watch it once, every time you
will see it again, it will feel like a scent you remember from your
youth or childhood.

******
18 July 2013
10
Critically acclaimed as one of the greatest movies ever made with some
of the best acting of all time. winner of 6 Academy Awards and loved
all round the world by all audiences. Forrest Gump has made itself an
award winning reputation and being admired by all.The role as Forrest Gump is played by the legendary Tom Hanks the story
is about a simple man. He's not bright but he has a soul of gold.
Forrest has managed to accidentally put himself at many legendary
moments in American history. From fighting in the Vietnam war to
meeting John lennon, Forrest's life story is extraordinarily told and
based on the novel Winston Groom.This remarkably told tale of love is a film that will keep you crying
for the whole 142 minutes. And at times will keep you laughing. But
most of the time will keep you with misty eyes.The Soundtrack is another thing is main part of the emotional drama of
this movie. With this simple but beautiful theme played on the piano in
the background makes you fully understand the emotional drama of the
scene and that is one of the reflections of the movie.Defiantly is one of the greatest movies ever made with an astonishing
performance by the legendary Tom Hanks and a fine collection of Oscars
including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor this film deserves
a higher rating. But still a remarkable movie which deserves no less
than what it got.

******
18 July 2013
10
Forrest Gump is a movie that inspired a generation! The movie tells the
story of a stupid but honest man who plays a part in a majority of
historic events during the 80's & 90's! The adventures of Forrest
include joining the army for service in Vietnam, finding new friends
called Dan and Bubba, he wins medals, creates a famous shrimp fishing
fleet, inspires people to jog, starts a ping-pong craze, create the
smiley, write bumper stickers and songs, donating to people and meeting
the president several times who happen to later on die via
assassinations. The movie is carried forward by the simplicity of
Forrest Gump's character & the amazing friends he makes over time.
However during his adventures his love interest, Jenny continues to
elude him!

******
17 July 2013
10
Breathtaking, this story is very beautiful with deep meaning, very
simple to comprehension, and it make you think about life in general,
you will learn some tips of how to look to life and be patient, It
might change your life! it might change the way you look to this world!
I really liked it and I've seen it more than ten times and still I want
to see it again. if you haven't seen it, you should really go and watch
it. it's an awesome experience, you won't regret it and this some info
about the movie : Forrest Gump is a 1994 American epic romantic
comedy-drama film based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston
Groom. The film was directed by Robert Zemeckis and starred Tom Hanks,
Robin Wright, Gary Sinise and Sally Field. The story depicts several
decades in the life of Forrest Gump, a naive and slow-witted yet
athletically prodigious native of Alabama who witnesses, and in some
cases influences, some of the defining events of the latter half of the
20th century in the United States; more specifically, the period
between Forrest's birth in 1944 and 1982.

******
14 July 2013
10
This film without a doubt is one of the best scripted and cast movie of
all time. We follow a man throughout his journey of life with lessons
of gratitude, compassion and leadership. We visit some very unique times in his life, filled with adventure,
love and truly lessons of honor, trust and love. We see a small town
boy grow into a world traveler. His passion for all things is one to be
admired.Most won't call this a "Love Story" but without the love Forrest has
for his Jenny, this lot would not be as thick with moral values.A boy and the love for his home and family truly show the life of an
American boy growing up in a rural setting, yet among the battle fields
we find a real American Hero.The love of a friend and his leader, show us a real connection with
strangers turned friendship, one worth risking a life for.This is by far one of the most accurate movie of the heritage of thee
American ways, then and now.

******
12 July 2013
9
If someone was to ask me to write a list of my favourite films this
would definitely be up there. When I first saw the film I laughed, I
cried and I was blown away. And every time since it has been the same.
The mixture of laugh out loud moments, tear jerking scenes and
rewritten historical moments are what make this film so great for me. Tom Hanks makes the film so special for me with a easy humour that
makes the character of Forrest so likable and cute and his moving
performance is what makes the tears flow every time. Another actor who blows me away is Mykelti Williamson. He plays the
Character of Bubba and is unbelievably moving and cute at the same
time. I just want to give him a hug! Forrest Gump is a must watch whether you are a film fan or not, every
single person should appreciate this touching and smart film.

******
15 April 2013
8
This is a powerful yet charming movie; fun for its special effects and
profound in how it keeps you thinking long after it's over. Like
others, I've seen this movie more than once. It's so damn funny when
Jenny dies.Granted, he achieves this only because he doesn't have the brains to
think otherwise and actually have expectations, but so many of our
problems are because we do have higher intellect and desires, which
ironically makes us unhappy because we know what we are missing. We
love our cats and dogs for the same simplicity and always being in the
moment. There's a line in the movie wondering if everything is
predestined or happens randomly or it's a combination of both. It is
something to mull over for a long time.

******
6 April 2013
10
Written by my daughter.... This film has to be one of my favourite
films of all time and not just because of their accent but there
extremely funny impressions. Tom Hanks plays Forrest very well and in
fact so well that he won six academy awards including best picture.
Although I am a girl I think it wouldn't be that bad to see how it was
like to have Forrest's point of view and his experiences. There are
also lots of things that you can learn from this film. So I would agree
that you should definitely watch it ! I think Forrest is more of a
child than a grown up which is also why I like him. This film cheers
you up, makes you laugh and appreciate life.

******
31 March 2013
10
A heart warming tale of love, deception and greed. Forest Gump is a
local idiot with a big heart and a fine pair of Nike trainers. This
film follows Forest as he stumbles into one catastrophe after another
in his endless pursuit of 'Jenny' a somewhat cynical tramp who
inadvertently catches the young Forest's eye. Jenny allows Forest a
seat on the school bus, triggering a life long obsession in which
Forest is rejected time and time again. Happily for Forest he
eventually wins through and by sheer perseverance and strength of
character our hero finally worms his way into Jenny's bed, accidentally
spawning a child, who Jenny tragically also names Forest Also seen
sporadically throughout the film is a foul mouthed alcoholic named
'lieutenant Dan' one of life's losers, lieutenant Dan loses both legs
in a horrific accident and holds Forest solely responsible. Dan often
berates Forest until a touching scene towards the end when Dan shows up
out of no where sporting a brand new pair of prosthetic legs and a
lovely Asian style wife, apparently forgiving Forest and simultaneously
giving him his blessing for his union with Jenny. We also learn of
Forest's sound financial brain as he makes millions through some very
shrewd investments. Overall this film is a tad far fetched for my
pallet, having said that I was very moved by Hanks performance, it
brings to mind two questions 1. Where did he get his inspiration? 2.
How far will Hanks stoop to win an Oscar?

******
10 March 2013
10
Okay, Tom Hanks literally is Forrest Gump and I could write for hours
about how good his performance is but instead of doing that why not
just briefly write about how perfect this movie is.A mentally challenged (although not fully retarded) man in Forrest who
is slow on learning lives the American Dream all meanwhile meeting and
being apart of some of the biggest American Moments of the last half
century. Ebert was very right when talking about how good the editing in this
film was, but not only was it the editing, it was the themes, the
amazing soundtrack full of pure nostalgia, it all fit perfect.The Dialogue, quotes, script, acting, direction, music, cinematography
were all AMAZING. This film is perfect.It is a REAL movie.It is a tear jerker.You need to put the past behind you in order to move on.I have worn lots of Shoes...It is funny how you can remember some things and some things you cant..Sometimes there just is not enough rocks...This film is incredible. Those above were just some of my favorite
quotes.His running scene is a top 10 scene ever. This is a top 10 film ever.
And a top 10 performance ever.This film won best picture over Pulp Fiction and Shawshank in 94.
Enough Said.10-10.

******
3 March 2013
10
I will be honest, this genre of film is not my favourite; but in order
to write this review, I cast all of my pre-judgement views aside. I was
fully aware that Forrest Gump was an excellent film before watching it,
and afterwards I felt exactly the same! Tom Hanks was a near-perfect
cast decision and he executed the role brilliantly as an innocent,
less- able boy (who turns into a man throughout the film) and one can
almost feel some physical chemistry between Hanks and the writer(s).
I.e. *During his conversation when he first meets Bubba* '"My name's
Forrest Gump. People call me Forrest Gump.'" This, along with many
other lines is delivered brilliantly with Forrest's slow, ubiquitous
Alabama accent. Anyway, the film centres around an adult Forrest who sits at a bus stop
telling people sat next to him about the story of his whole life (this
is all shown throughout and shapes the film). Plenty of significant
things occur during his life/the film; his friendships, losses, jobs
and his determination - which is what most people capture after
watching it.All in all a film of many mixed emotions, and one that everyone should
one day see

******
24 February 2013
10
Forrest Gump is a an exceptional movie and Forrest is perfectly
portrayed by Tom Hanks. It is about a man who is not clever but still
has a kind heart. He served in Vietnam, he became table tennis world
champion and he invested in Apple. Forrest Gump is a very funny and
interesting movie.Some of my favorite quotes from Forrest Gump:Drill Sergeant: Gump! What's your sole purpose in this army? Forrest
Gump: To do whatever you tell me, drill sergeant! Drill Sergeant: God
damn it, Gump! You're a god damn genius! This is the most outstanding
answer I have ever heard. You must have a goddamn I.Q. of 160. You are
goddamn gifted, Private Gump. Listen up, people... Forrest Gump: Now
for some reason I fit in the army like one of them round pegs. It's not
really hard. You just make your bed real neat and remember to stand up
straight and always answer every question with "Yes, drill sergeant."
Drill Sergeant: ...Is that clear? Forrest Gump: Yes, drill sergeant!Forrest Gump: Lieutenant Dan, I got you some ice cream. Forrest Gump:
Lieutenant Dan, ice cream. Forrest Gump: Lieutenant Dan got me invested in some kind of fruit
company. So then I got a call from him, saying we don't have to worry
about money no more. And I said, that's good! One less thing.And my favourite: Forrest Gump: My momma always said, "Life was like a
box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."

******
22 February 2013
9
I'm reading a lot of reviews. There's a lot that say that this is a
great movie, and most I see say this because it is very sentimental,
and there are a few that say this is an annoying and poor movie,
because of what they see from it. Both may be right, I don't pretend to
be the know all of answers. I just have my opinion. To those who love
this movie because it is sentimental and powerfully overwhelming, it's
true. First time I saw this movie a fear tears leaked out here and
there, but I think there's a lot more under the surface here. More
depth than just a sentimental movie. If you think about it, shoes make
many appearances in this movie. In the very beginning Gump talks about
his very first pair of shoes, ones that limited his mobility and left
him vulnerable. As those broke away (albeit in a very cheesy way) he
got new shoes, ones that allowed him to run away from danger and run to
success, in the form of football. This allows him to graduate from
University, which, one might say, is part of the American dream. But
that is a whole other side to the movie. He joins the war, and while
he's there he runs from danger, acting the hero by saving lives. When
he leaves, he runs into a man who has no shoes, mainly because he has
no legs. Lieutenant Dan, now a cripple, is bitter and angry because he
cannot walk, and he is limited both in his ability to move and go
places as well as limited in his ability to see beyond anything in life
other than when he should have died. When Gump and Dan start the
fishing company, Lieutenant Dan realizes the importance of life, (once
again, cheesy) and he swims off. We don't see him for a while. Annndd
Gump gets bored. So he runs, all across America (part of American
dream, to travel?...) He returns home, Jenny comes back, random scenes
occur blah blah blah and we come back to Gump's wedding. Lieutenant Dan
comes back! He has legs, even! And with his legs he has a beautiful
fiance. I'll skip the rest. Yes there are random side stories of his
life that are cheesy or don't contribute to the movie, but those are
fun and lively, if a little unrealistic. Ping-pong? Hah! This is only
one part of the numerous layers that make up this movie. A satire of
the American dream, viewing American history through innocent and
unbiased eyes, a description of life even! This movie is powerful in
its complexity, and intricate in its depth. And yes, it is sentimental
and fun to watch as well. To those who critique it for the "ignorance
is bliss" view, perhaps look a little closer. This movie is not saying
that one can succeed by doing nothing but being lucky, (though that is
the end result, so I see how you can believe that) but is looking back
through all the things I mentioned just before in a unique and
entertaining way. Gump views the world as he walks through it, wearing
whatever pair of shoes, doing whatever it is he's doing. He watches
events as they occur, and he participates in them in his own way. He
shows, through his simple-minded example, that you do not need to be
brilliant or manipulative, or even fully functional in order to
succeed.

******
29 January 2013
8
Forrest Gump is a solid entertainment for all family to enjoy. It's
hardly a great film and didn't deserve all those Academy Awards. But
who care, because everyone loves Forrest Gump. I like it just fine and
it has some repeat value to it. The acting is great all around, it's
funny and touching. But at times it goes for Spielbergian gooey,
schmaltzy stuff.I'm not the biggest fan of Tom Hanks. I like him in good films but
sometimes he can be pretty annoying or terrible. In Forrest Gump he is
fine and gives a heartfelt and funny performance. Robin Wright and Gary
Sinise provide excellent supporting performances so does the rest of
the cast.Another thing that I liked, was the fact that they managed to put
Forrest Gump in nearly every single important moment in American
history. It was a neat idea and it worked for the most part. Direction
by Robert Zemeckis was fine and he gave the film great energy.I only wanted this film to be a R rated. R rating would have added more
welcome substance as violence to Vietnam scenes, profanity and some
nudity to the more sleazier scenes. Plus they could have toned down the
gooey and schmaltzy stuff down a bit. In other words, minor things that
annoy me but not the general audience. Forrest Gump is a fine entertainment. It's not very deep or profound
look at mentally challenged people. It's heartwarming tale about a
underdog. Critics and the audience loves a underdog story.

******
29 December 2012
10
Forrest Gump it's that kind of movie, that you will see once in a
lifetime, but you will want to watch in every day of that life. It's
about this boy Forrest Gump from Alabama(TOM HANKS) and he's "not so
smart". He's born like that, but glided by his mom's words, develops
himself a grown man. Protective, kind and honest he manage somehow to
be the best man on earth at every task he has. So there's the 75 IQ
boy, with braces on his legs, no friends, no money, NO father, no
school, ... living a dream. First he manage getting in high school
football team on the RUNNER POST. That was good enough for a collage
scholarship too and from this point he never stopped running: army, war
in Vietnam, saving lives, Medal of Honor, three times in White House,
... . For him everything was perfect and normal at the same time. One
thing he wants, to be with his special girlfriend Jenny. He loves her,
but she lives in a different word from him. Late in the movie she
marries him, they already have a beautiful and smart kid Forrest, as
his father, but she dies. The final act it's in the buss station
Forrest taking his son at the school buss, just how his mother toked
him at his first day of school. And just like that it ends in a perfect
circle, Forrest waiting his son. When an actor plays very good in a
movie you feel calling him after the name from the movie, like House
for example, there is no Hugh Laurie for me after the serial, just
House. So how i said after this movie there is no Tom Hanks for me,
there is just a crazy but good and kind man who can't stop running,
Forest Gump, and a good old movie.

******
22 December 2012
10
... seems to be the theme of this film. Forrest Gump has an IQ of 70,
is being raised by a single mom, lives in a remote part of the Deep
South where there are few opportunities, and has legs that require that
he wear braces as a child. Sounds like the recipe for a sad tale or at
least a slow death from mediocrity right? No, instead, because Forrest
isn't really bright enough to realize the situation he is in, he simply
does what he's told to do or what occurs to him to be the right thing
at the time and succeeds due to a lack of self doubt. He's told to run
and he becomes the star of the Crimson Tide and an All American. When
recovering from a war wound, he's taught ping-pong and winds up
competing at the global level in China itself. He promises his dying
friend Bubba that he'll go ahead with their plans and become a shrimp
boat captain and his brand of seafood products becomes a household
name.All along the way he never learns the lessons in life that tend to
make the rest of us cynical.Gump's childhood sweetheart Jenny starts out with high aspirations -
she wants to be like Joan Baez and fight for world peace - and instead
she winds up disillusioned, drug addicted, and a near suicide before
age 30. She doesn't have Forrest's childlike innocence and this leads
her to self-doubt and ultimately failure. Also, fate or "destiny" as
the film calls it, is not on her side in one big way - her own father
molested her as a child, which couldn't help but play a role in the
decisions she made. Now Gump does have a bunch of coincidences on his side - call it
destiny if you will - the storm that beaches every shrimping vessel in
the Gulf of Mexico but his, for example - but in most cases this is
just the story of a man going through life without self doubt and that
little voice that tells the rest of us "You can't do that! What are the
odds! You'll fail! Make the safe choice!" To me, this is what this film
is about. I think everyone sees something different in it. I highly
recommend it as it is truly one of a kind. I remember when it came out
it absolutely made professional reviewers crazy that people liked this
film, probably because they didn't understand it.

******
19 July 2012
10
When I saw Forrest Gump for the very first time on TV, I immediately
fell in love with it, and this is the movie that made me become more
into film and made me change my life, and I'll explain why in a little
bit. I've seen this movie dozens of times, and I never get tired of it.
Forrest Gump is definitely one of my top five favorite movies of
all-time.STORY: Forrest Gump has a very simple, but yet an excellent plot. It
basically follows a man named Forrest; Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), who
grew up in Greenbow, Alabama and is sitting on a bench in Savannah,
Georgia waiting for a bus. When strangers come and sit next to him, he
tells his stories about his childhood, how he met the girl who he truly
loved, Jenny (Robin Wright), when he joined the Army, when he went to
the Vietnam War, and witnessing so many historical events (George
Wallace's Standing in the Schoolhouse Door, the Watergate Scandal,
etc.) that happened during his life.MY THOUGHTS: Forrest Gump is one of those movies that have a bunch of
genres in it. This movie is a comedy, a drama, a little bit of a
romance, a history film, and war film. I thought they worked very well.
The movie can make you laugh and cry.The visual effects, which were used to incorporate Tom Hanks into
archived footage, I thought they were well-used. The cinematography is
fantastic; the story is very well-written and well-told, and it keeps
you interested the whole time. The music score by Alan Silvestri is one
of the best score that I'd ever heard in a movie.This movie has a fantastic use of symbolism.Like I said before, Forrest Gump is the movie that changed my life. The
reason for that is because it makes me experience the things in life in
a very elaborate way. That's what one of the themes in Forrest Gump has
to offer: sticking with life.THE ACTING: This movie truly has some of the best acting that I'd ever
seen. Tom Hanks delivers the performance of a lifetime as the title
character, Forrest Gump, the innocent and naive person, who's telling
his stories to strangers about his life. I thought his narratives were
well-told; his emotions are very believable. His delivery of his lines
was just perfect. This is probably the best performance that I had ever
seen from an actor. Robin Wright does fantastic playing Jenny, the girl
who Forrest meets on the bus to go to school, and then they become very
best friends. I really enjoyed Gary Sinise's supporting role as Lt. Dan
Taylor, Forrest's officer in Vietnam. Sally Field was spectacular
playing Forrest's mother, who raises Forrest after his father abandoned
the family, and gives Forrest the meanings of life.IN CONCLUSION: Forrest Gump is truly a fantastic movie, which is also
one of my all-time favorite films.10/10 (without a doubt)

******
30 June 2012
8
I have never seen Tom Hanks in a role like this before, playing simple,
oblivious Forrest Gump. This film is a real tear-jerker, causing me to
cry several times as Forrest retells and lives through his toughest
moments. Tom really makes you feel for his character, whether it be
cringing, crying or smiling, you live every moment with Forrest. It is
a story with many layers including love, war and achievement of
Forrest's, unbeknownst to him, significant life. Forrest is a very easy
to like character as he is brave, confident and dedicated, and you just
want everything to turn out alright for him. This film is based on a
book of the same name, but they have very different endings. I haven't
read the book, but I doubt it could have similar success without the
life that Tom Hanks breathes into the role of Forrest, Forrest Gump. I
highly recommend this film to those who like feel good films and don't
mind to cry a little, if you have a heart.

******
2 June 2012
10
Superb directing, producing and acting all come together in the multi-
award winning drama. Forrest (Tom Hanks) is a simple, yet extraordinary
human being who shows us, anything is possible. Starring: Tom Hanks, Gary Sinise, Robin Wright and Directed by Robert
Zemeckis, this film has combined all the ingredients to become a world
world success story. Awe-inspiring, no wonder it took 6 academy awards. Personal overview: No matter your age, gender, race or taste in film;
Forrest Gump has it all. From Action to Adventure, Comedy to Drama,
this film will not fail to please any audience. **********

******
1 June 2012
10
Many of us go through our entire lives never really seeing the world. I
don't mean the world in News reports, or on TV...I mean the beautiful
world, the simple world, beyond the the hatred and dissatisfaction that
assaults our senses every day. The beautiful and uncluttered world as
seen through Forrest Gump's eyes.OK, enough flowery talk. This movie will mean different things to
different people, there is no doubt in my mind. For some it will be
seen as nothing more than a patronizing joke, a crude attempt to make
people think our world should be a fantasy land. I feel sorry for them,
as they just don't get the simple message that shines throughout the
movie.For others (I hope we are a majority), we see Forrest as a gateway to
our own soul. Forrest Gump experiences all the hurt, the hatred, the
huge brick wall of insecurity that we all experience. Yet he continues
on, finding a strength within to overcome all the obstacles placed
before him...Maybe we aren't perfect, maybe we don't know all the answers, but
Forrest Gump lets you know that we don't have to be perfect to see the
beauty all around us. Just look! I find myself watching this movie
every time I see that it is on...

******
27 May 2012
9
Tom Hanks' convincing portrayal of an Alabama simpleton made for a
remarkable story portrayed in a kind, entertaining and very poignant
way. Movies should challenge your acceptance of your own status quo and
capture your imagination. Robert Zemeckis understood the opportunity to
tell his Hollywood slant on American history through Forrest's innocent
eyes. With the bitter veteran act of Gary Sinese, and beaten path of
Robin Wrights' Jenny, the focus is more on our individual choices
despite life's hard knocks. Forrest grows alongside of America and even
has his hand in that growth, as we all do. Idealism is as idealism
does, right?

******
14 May 2012
10
Forrest Gump (1994) Director  Robert Zemeckis Cinematographer  Don
Burgess Writer  Winston Groom Editor  Arthur SchmidtFavorite Quote  "Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what
you are going to get."Forrest Gump is a great modern day fable. A fable in the dictionary is
defined as a brief fictitious story that teaches a moral. It's a very
compilation of innocence, honesty and love. Forrest Gump (protagonist),
named after a civil war hero, grows up in Greenbow, Alabama, where his
mother runs a boarding house. Although Forrest is a slow learner, his
mental impairment doesn't seem to bother him, his mother or his best
friend. During the next thirty years, Forrest becomes a star football
player, a war hero, a successful businessman and something of a pop
icon. Through it all, however, there is one defining element in his
life: His love for Jenny. She is never far from his thoughts, no matter
what he's doing or where he is.A trio of assets lifts Forrest Gump above the average "life story"
drama, its optimism, freshness and emotional honesty. After graduating,
Forrest enlisted in army and was sent to Vietnam. He has a very
particular singular viewpoint on his time spent there which shows the
essence of the title character's nature. Forrest Gump has several
messages with several decades in the life of Forrest Gump, some of
which are less obvious than others. The most frequently recurring theme
is an admonition not to give up on life. Why surrender when you don't
know what lies ahead? By contrasting Forrest's life with the lives of
those around him, and by showing how the passage of time brings solace
to even the most embittered hearts, the movie underlines this point.Forrest Gump is an epic journey of a nave and slow-witted man who
witnesses, and in some cases influences, some of the defining events of
the latter half of the 20th century. Review by  Mayank Bhattacharya

******
18 March 2012
10
This is one of all time favorite movies. Forest achieves what many
other people of higher IQ didn't, including being honorably discharged
from the military and receiving a medal. He leads a practically healthy
and successful lifestyle, and it is beautifully depicted here in this
movie, with superb acting, heartwarming events, hopeful music and
awesome directing. There is spirit and humor in the film, which
provides some comedy-relief to the stressing times of Vietnam-era
1960s.In this film, Forrest touched the lives of many people, and does so
with innocence and humility, without any idea what he is really
achieving due to his low-IQ. Still, he pursues goodness and success in
life by helping others and being a football star, while rejecting drugs
and all that bad crap. This is also a heroic film where Forrest Gump
saves the life of fellow soldiers, including Lt. Dan Taylor (Gary
Sinise), who at first condemned Gump from saving him because he wounded
up having both his legs amputated. Later, it turns out he lead a
recovered life afterward, walking on artificial legs and getting
married. And, the part where it showed Forrest Gump running non-stop
around the country for 3 years gave us a feeling that you should just
let go of your worries, and strive for the best, for the sky is the
limit.This is another day in the life about a man with a low IQ, but he sure
strives as depicted in this story. It is fun to see Forrest trying
endlessly to win Jenny's heart, and he still treats her well even
though she is not interested in him.Overall, it is a very sweet, powerful, innocent and hopeful film. One
of the best in cinema history, and surely worth is Oscar wins.

******
16 March 2012
10
The movie is beautiful. There are many messages in it. The main idea
I've got is - turn yourself on and keep on going whatever you're doing.
Once you've decided what you want to do, just do it! Don't stop to ask
yourself questions such as: "is it worth it?" in moments of despair.
Another message - be simple. A simple man achieved a lot knowing only
just a few basic things his mother taught him. This movie is about
action. There are many things to say, but it is better to watch it.
Maybe I'll read the book one day. It is a story of a gifted man, who
got in favorable circumstances and kept on developing his skills. This
is a powerful movie and should definitely be in the top 10 of all
times.

******
9 February 2012
8
Forrest Gump was one of those movies which I thought would be
'alright', but turned out to be better than that. The role Tom Hanks
plays and how he does justice to the character is impressive.
Throughout a multitude of scenarios, the story of Forrest Gump truly
keeps one entertained if not excited about what will happen next.
Interestingly, a rather long movie, it did not make me feel "When will
this get over?". Not that I always ask this rhetoric question, mind
you, but overall time passes without consideration of a break.With rather random occurrences, it is quite instigating to the viewer
what is going to happen next. By not out of the blue but a frenzy of
events which are not to be thought would happen in that chronological
manner, this movie not only surprises but changes viewpoints. It delves
with multiple issue, no matter how discreet and implicated.Generally, the genre of this movie applies to me but to see these
genres posed like this truly enlightened me and rather than judging it
harshly, made me reconsider to what extents the listed genres may apply
to all cinema.

******
4 February 2012
8
The Real American Movie Critics review Forrest Gump and give it a
decent review take a look America! Dan America likes it for its
American quality. As Bob The 86er seems to like all the fun quotes from
the movie. Now that I look back at our very first review i am reminded
of what I ate that day. I think I had a steak, or was it chicken? I am
not sure. I wonder if someone watching the video can guess what I ate
earlier on in that day. I know that it was not sushi, because that is
not American. Oh I almost forgot! The Real American Movie Critics rate
movies from a Penny which is the worst rating you can get. Well it can
be much worse, they could say that the movie should be free, the best
rating a movie can possibly get is ten bucks.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wHHa7Eu-
lEw&feature=plcp&context=C35627bdUDOEgsToPDskKu_ZlG5z5ODH9TJJ9OCF7Y

******
13 January 2012
9
Kids these days don't see the right movies. While teens flock to the
latest Transformers or Saw, they neglect the past- even the not-so- far
gone 90's. But there's a strange anomaly in that trend... it seems
everybody has seen Forrest Gump at one time or another. And after
finally grabbing it on Blu Ray, I can say I've joined that rank.
Forrest Gump is a fantastic film, and certainly a good one for the
masses to see.There's a better chance than not that if you're reading this, you've
already seen the film. You probably won't find anything here that
you've already heard before. But if you haven't, read on! There are
better films than Forrest Gump, but not many, and it is certainly an
excellent film to see, arguably mandatory.Forrest Gump is a simple man with a low IQ, born in the 40's. The film
follows his life, showing this impossibly innocent man experience some
of the most important events of the mid-to-late 20th century. But he
doesn't care for any of that: he just wants to be with his girl, Jenny.
At its heart, Forrest Gump is a love story set against a historical
backdrop.There's a reason the Blu Ray box says "Tom Hanks is FORREST GUMP". His
performance is mesmerizing, a one-of-a-kind portrayal of a
one-of-a-kind role. A southern man with a low IQ, the embodiment of
innocence, who describes things in the most innocent way, like "the
loving father who liked to touch her", "the men who dressed up like
ghosts" and other such things the audience understands. And the voice
he uses is so iconic and often imitated.But Hanks isn't the only great: the film is host to a group of great
characters. There's Jenny, Forrest's childhood friend and love
interest. Bubba, Forrest's war buddy and fellow misfit, who knows
everything about the shrimpin' business. Lieutenant Dan, as the tragic
CO who has quite a journey. And lastly Momma Gump, with her motherly
advice and willingness to do anything for her son's education.There's a great feeling to the film. Forrest is such a hero: he does no
wrong, he is the underdog from birth. It's not cute or charming, but a
heartwarming story of beating the odds. Forrest goes from great scene
to great scene, with such greats as football, 'Nam, the hurricane, and
the Anti-War rally. With the exception of the Vietnam scene, which is
very well handled for such a foreign scene in an otherwise
talking-filled movie, the screenplay has wonderful dialogue and a
quirky rhythm.A note to those who saw Zumeckis' first great film, Back to the Future.
Do not expect more of that. 'Future' was a comedy with drama added,
Forrest Gump is a drama with humour added. It's a more mature film,and
can take some dark turns, like the 'ice cream' scene. I will draw a parallel to Goodfellas (a good thing). Where Goodfellas
shows what the powerful did from the 50's to the 80's, Forrest shows
what the everyman (and woman) did during that time. Also, like
Goodfellas, Forrest Gump has a fantastic period soundtrack with lots of
'Nam and hippie tunes. Not quite as expansive as the mob film, but
excellent nonetheless. Forrest Gump is also more specific: such events
as the University of Alabama conflict, Watergate (hilarious) and buying
stocks in "that fruit company" make for some historically accurate
humour, one of Gump's greatest strengths.One relationship in particular is fascinating, the main relation
between Forrest and Jenny. They start off the same, but go down wildly
different paths, one constructive, the other destructive. They are such
opposite people, but only Jenny realizes that. It makes the ending much
more interesting, and so much more touching to see Forrest question "if
he's smart". This is one of the most fascinating aspects of the film.This won the Oscar for visual effects, but I didn't see it at first.
The effects are very subtle. Like the ping pong ball, the feather, or-
WHAT how is he having a conversation with freakin' President JFK? The
effects aren't revolutionary, but very effective. I still don't know
how they made the conversations with the dead happen.On the back of the Blu Ray is a quote, claiming the film to be a "tonic
of the weary in spirit". That's the perfect description. Forrest Gump
is an uplifting tale of what a single man, even a fictional one, can do
with the hand he is dealt. In a decade remembered for its cultural
violence (Silence of the Lambs, Seven, Pulp Fiction) Forrest Gump is a
beacon of good nature, and good nature is something everyone needs.
9.1/10

******
10 December 2011
9
Few, if any, characters in movie history have had an amazing a life as
Forrest Gump. He's such a simple man. Stupid? Stupid is as stupid does.
Forrest may be a little slow. But he gets life, he knows what's
important. He remains true to himself, to his values. He is fiercely
loyal to those he loves. And as Forrest himself says, though he is not
a smart man he knows what love is. Just by doing what he knows in his
heart to be right this simple man has the most incredible life. His
journey is magical, inspiring, heartwarming. It's dramatic, it's funny,
it's poignant, it's mesmerizing. Forrest Gump touches the lives of so
many people around him. And along the way he changes the course of
world events too. This is a life which has to be seen to be believed.So how does an Alabama boy with an IQ of 75 end up changing the world?
Just by being himself. Life happens all around him and Forrest is often
blissfully ignorant. He finds himself caught up in one extraordinary
situation after another. In each situation, without fail, he just does
the right thing, the good thing. He does what "smarter" people, given
the opportunity to think about the situation, might not. He thinks not
of the consequences, he just follows his heart. And that heart takes
him to the most amazing places. He is a man driven by love. Love for
his friends, for his mama, and above all for his beloved Jenny.The story of Forrest and Jenny is inspiring and tragic, heartwarming
and heartbreaking all at the same time. From their first meeting as
children the bond between these two is unbreakable. No matter how they
may drift apart that connection is always there. And drift apart they
do for while Forrest has his amazing life's journey Jenny has a journey
all her own. She embraces life in her own way. In confronting her
demons she makes some bad choices. No matter how far gone she may seem
to be she knows, and we know, that Forrest will always be there for
her. Forrest doesn't judge her as so many others would. He just loves
her, always and forever, no matter how hard she makes it to love her at
times. It really is one of the great relationships in movie history.The relationship between Forrest and Jenny is the real heart of the
story but there's so much more. With everything Forrest experienced
it's remarkable that director Robert Zemeckis managed to cram it all
into less than two and a half hours of film. And give credit to
Zemeckis too for creating the right tone for the film. In the wrong
hands this could have been an overly sentimental mess of a film. But in
Forrest Gump Zemeckis presents a film, and a character, which is good
but not too good to be true. So many outrageous things happen to
Forrest Gump but you believe in this story every step of the way.
Zemeckis put all the pieces together perfectly. Everything fits, right
down to the wonderful soundtrack with the perfect songs for each of the
big moments in Forrest's decades-long journey. A great share of the
credit for the film's success of course goes to Tom Hanks who played
Forrest to perfection. An obviously challenging character to play. How
far do you go in portraying Forrest's innate simplicity? Hanks got it
just right. The rest of the cast is terrific as well. Robin Wright hits
all the right emotional notes in playing the deeply troubled Jenny.
Sally Field is everything you would want your mama to be. Mykelti
Williamson brings great personality to the role of Forrest's wartime
buddy Bubba. Michael Conner Humphreys and Hanna Hall are wonderfully
endearing as the young Forrest and Jenny. And Gary Sinise is utterly
brilliant in playing Lieutenant Dan, a character whose story arc is as
dramatic and compelling as can be. Hanks of course won an Oscar for his
performance, which was pretty much a given as soon as the film was
released. That Sinise didn't pick up an Oscar as well for his
supporting role seems borderline criminal. What a performance he gave
in a supremely challenging role.Much was made upon the film's initial release about the effects used to
insert Forrest Gump into history. The effects may seem quaint by now
but they were truly revolutionary at the time. And they add a nice
touch to the movie. It's cute seeing Forrest tell JFK he has to go pee
or to see him chatting with John Lennon. All of Forrest's brushes with
history give the movie a grander scale. They show the impact this very
simple man had on the world. But for all the famous people he met, for
all the wondrous things he did, Forrest would be the first to tell you
that everything he ever needed was right there at home in Greenbow,
Alabama. His friends, his mama, his Jenny. That's all Forrest Gump ever
needed. And look at the impact he had on those closest to him, often
without even trying. Look at where Lieutenant Dan is in life by the end
of the film. Forrest got him there just by being himself, by doing what
was right. And Forrest was of course always there for Jenny too. Such a
simple man yet he touched so many lives. Not a smart man? Listen to
what Forrest has to say about destiny in the incredibly poignant scene
near the film's end. Maybe Forrest Gump had us all fooled. He may have
been the smartest one of all.

******
24 December 2010
10
OK this film has to be the all time greatest film. there is no film in
its genre that even challenges forest Gump on any level. from start to
finish it has you hitched along for a ride in the eyes of an
extraordinary human being. from starting of as a boy from a small town
in America. he achieves some pretty amazing things from be in the war
to meeting two presidents and sure as hell loves them doctor peppers
and don't even get me started about Bubba he was such a character. boy
sure did like his shrimp.some amazing acting throughout the film from
amazing actors. tom hanks's best ever film and he has made some amazing
films. I am proud to say that I have a signed picture of forest Gump as
he begins his run around America. to finish just have to say unreal
film 10/10 without a doubt. (i love you jenny!!)

******
18 November 2010
10
To say it with a clich: they don't make 'em like this anymore.
"Forrest Gump" is pretty much everything that was great about 90s
cinema and more. It's incredibly long, but it isn't boring for a
second. The dialogues are all things at once, one moment they're
fast-paced and hilarious and two seconds later they're slow and
horrendously saddening. The way the plot develops is truly beautiful,
because Forrest Gump is one of the greatest underdogs I've ever seen in
a movie. You can't help but feel happy whenever he accidentally writes
world history, or just when he misunderstands things yet again and
shows his butt to the president. Everything just feels right in this
movie, the script doesn't have a word too few or too many. If you
haven't noticed, to me this is one of the best movies ever made.

******
10 July 2010
8
The movie is a bit over-hyped. And I do think that Pulp Fiction should
have gotten the Academy Award that year. But there are many times when
I disagreed with the winner and this is the one time where I am not too
upset because it is still a great movie.It shows us the history through the eyes of Forrest Hump. He has a low
IQ and this makes them look at things with the eyes of an innocent and
pure person.I disagree with the people who believe that the message of the movie is
that one should never question authority. Forrest doesn't just follow.
While he doesn't analyze his actions much, he usually does what he
feels like. He does save Lt. Taylor even though he is telling him to
leave him. He has a bunch of people following him on his run, which I
think is another example where it shows that one should not just follow
but try to understand why. And I never saw Jenny as a bad character.
She was an abused person trying to find herself. Her death is not some
kind of punishment for her actions and the fact that she was fighting
for social changes. It is just a "part of life", and her life ends well
because at the end of it she is finally at peace with herself. She
lived a life that she wanted and at the end had a family and realized
that Forrest is the one who loved her more than anyone even though she
used to think that he doesn't know what love is.The acting is very good. I loved Robyn Wright as Jenny and Gary Sinise
as Ltd. Taylor.I don't think it is a political propaganda of any kind. I don't know
what the political beliefs of the director are, but I didn't feel it
was pushing us in any way.The movie has many messages. One would be to take all of lives
opportunities. That even when it seems like nothing good will happen it
might. That one should fight for what one believes in. That one can
find love in the most unusual places It is a very sweet movie. One
shouldn't take it to seriously, analyze it on a political level or wait
for it to be believable. It is very unique and interesting. A bit too
long and too sweet maybe, it is still very good

******
25 June 2010
10
This movie is great.I enjoyed it very much and is one of the best I've
ever seen(and I've seen a lot of movies).This movie is about the life
of Forrest Gump.This movie is all you need if you want to relax and see
the beauty and ugliness of the life.Forrest Gump is the life itself.The
movie starts with Forrest Gump who is on a bank waiting for his bus and
tell the story of his life to the listeners who come and go.During the
movie Forrest tells them the story but when he finishes telling his
story he finds out that he has a boy.It's a movie that must be seen. In
the end her wife dies of cancer and he is alone with his boy that has
the same name as him, Forrest Gump.

******
5 June 2010
10
Forrest Gump directed by Robert Zemechis is a truly remarkable movie
for me.This movie has shades of memories of my life & it has touched me
emotionally in many ways.The acting of Tom Hanks is triumphant.I have
never seen a better act from him & the truth is i don't want to.Scenes
like Forrest having polio & with just few words of Jenny does the magic
& he is able to run.Thats so beautiful.Scene of Forrest & Jenny meeting
on the sea shore where everyone claps are just some amazing scenes you
will ever come across.The agony of Lieutenant Dan is very
amazing.Eventually movie concludes with a sad ending & the soundtrack
is memorable.It shows the truth of life,you can get whatever you need
in your life but still you wont get that one thing that you always
want.Superb direction & brilliant acting with a touching story just
makes the day for the audience.Forrest's mother reminded me of my own
mother.This is an emotional experience for me as i had past of my
parents related with polio,my love for the army once,as well as those
romantic meets that i always want.This is triumphant.In short,verdict
is if you don't see this for your emotional conscience just see it for
the brilliance of Tom Hanks.Forrest Gump is emotionally triumphant for
me.

******
24 October 2015
10
This film is incredible... And Tom Hanks is the greatest actor ever..
Watched every movie he acted.. Inspiring movie.. That truly although
life may throw us trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but
that we have to just bite into it and get through it even if we don't
like it. I just love this movie. And anyone who hasn't seen it or who
thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest seeing it or seeing it
again. It truly is amazing... How can somebody say that Forrest is just
an idiot, an ordinary person who does everything that he is told to do?
It appears to me that in fact,in his innocence, Forrest does what he
feels he has to do,no matter the situations and the people around him,
lead only by an inner sense of right. So what actually seems to be
special about Forrest is that, regardless of his intelligence, he has
the capacity to discover simple truth and life values that all the
others around him miss: he tries to save Bubba endangering his own
life, he gives Bubba's family money and mainly displays simple goodness
in everything he does.

******
22 October 2015
9
I believe the cast; as a whole, were amazing...but this movie is the
whole reason I absolutely love Tom Hanks! His performance was
outstanding to me! This movie has such a heartfelt message, you can't
help but fall in love with it (unless you're a heartless piece of trash
that is). Following Forest's life story captivates you from the
beginning as you learn all the hardships he had to overcome starting
from a very young age and ending with the present in the movie (after
he finishes telling his story and you follow him in the present). It's
just hands down an amazing movie that made me cry and smile, laugh and
yell in anger, and helped me realize judgment is the worst crime anyone
can commit!!

******
12 October 2015
8
The movie Forrest Gump has become a well known movie all around the
world. Tom Hanks, a very popular and well known actor, portrays the
role of Forrest. Forrest Gump is a mentally handicapped man whose
disability is not specified in the film. People try to degrade Forrest
by calling him names. Whenever someone calls him stupid, his mother,
who is played by Sally Field, tells him "stupid is as stupid does"
which is something he continuously repeats during the film. Although he
has a disability and is told by multiple people that he can't
accomplish things, he ends up doing things that no one ever imagined
that he could do. Graduating high school, going to college on a
football scholarship, fighting in the Vietnam War, owning a very
successful shrimp business, and meeting several different presidents
are just a few of the things that Forrest accomplishes over the course
of the movie. Jenny Curran, played by Robin Wright, first meets Forrest
on the school bus when she allows him to sit with her. Jenny becomes
Forrest's best friend and they then become inseparable, going
everywhere and doing everything together. After they finish school,
Jenny and Forrest eventually start to drift apart. Forrest serves in
the Vietnam War and does countless other things with his life. Jenny's
life seemingly goes in the opposite direction, she becomes apart of the
"hippie movement" and gets involved in some things that she should not
be involved in. Throughout the film Jenny makes occasional appearances
in Forrest's life. Some of the things she says to Forrest when she sees
him is enough to make anyone wonder "what the heck is she thinking?".
Although there are plenty of other films in the world, this one is by
far one of my favorites. With the story line and the different
cinematic elements of it, including the feather falling and landing
right beside him, this movie proves it is well put together and
deserved to win the 6 Academy Awards it was nominated for, including
Best Picture and Actor in a Leading Role.

******
12 October 2015
9
Forrest Gump Forrest Gump is about overcoming the borders set up by
others. While his mother always knew something was different about
Forrest, she never criticized him once. When he was called stupid he
was told to just say "stupid is as stupid does. These are the things
that help this disabled her through life.with all the strugglesSummary The story starts in the picturesque town of green bow Alabama
where a boy is getting "magic shoes" put on his legs to get his legs
straightened. as it progresses boy meets girl, girl likes him as a
friend etc. they teach each other how to hang and swing and play. she
always looks out for him to when he is getting chased or bullied, she
is always there to yell "RUN FORREST, RUN" later in the film however
things change after going off to college he becomes the star running
back of Alabama university after 5 years he graduates, and off to war
he goes war he meets his best good friend Bubba Blue after a surprise
attack Forrest spends time healing with his future first mate Lt. Dan
he goes on to master a little sport called table tennis he becomes an
Olympic world champion and buys a shrimp boat with the money. after
making a fortune off shrimping he goes on a journey across America
running all the way. After the run he goes to her in Georgia. Forrest
story ends fairly soon after this but I will leave that for you to see.

******
12 October 2015
8
Forrest Gump Film Review by Ivy SmithIn the movie Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks portrays the main character
Forrest, a simple man that is not very intelligent but has good
intentions toward his mother (Sally Field) and best friend Jenny (Robin
Wright). Throughout the movie Forrest tells the story of his life but
since he doesn't know any better he was put into the middle of some
major historical events that have happened from the 1950s - 1980s. This
movie is like no other of the time of its release in 1994, still now in
2015 this movie is a favorite of many. We first see Hanks' character Forrest on a bus bench in Savannah,
Georgia telling his story to a stranger that sat next to him. He begins
his story at the beginning, him as a boy having to get braces for his
legs. His story goes on and he meets Jenny on the bus when no one else
would let him sit down. From that moment on Jenny and Forrest are the
best of friends. One day bullies were chasing Forrest and Jenny said
"Run Forrest! Run!" and then he started running and his leg braces
broke off and he is a very fast child. After a while Forrest finds
himself running away from bullies again and he runs straight across a
football field and he gets a free ride into college. He goes to tell that he goes through many big historical events and
some of those were school integration, he gets to meet President John
F. Kennedy, The Vietnam War, he was on a TV show and met John Lennon a
few months or so before he died, he inadvertently helps expose the
Watergate scandal and many more events. He tells them through his mind
and it seems all too innocent because of his low IQ. His relationship
with Jenny continues and he keeps trying to save her but she keeps
running away. Through Jenny's eyes you see the hippie movement, drug
and alcohol abuse, her sleeping around, and a failed suicide attempt.
Jenny cleans up and decided to go back to Forrest and stays with him
and soon after she runs away again. Forrest Gump is based off of a book called Forrest Gump by Winston
Groom in 1986. The book was more harsh than the movie so the film
writers took off some of the edge and made it into a more lovable
movie. They took out some of the adventures Forrest had because they
were a little ridiculous. The movie took great special effects in how
they put the actor Tom Hanks into different scenarios in time, such as
being put into a video with John F. Kennedy and using special effects
to take off Lt. Dan's (Gary Sinise) legs after the Vietnam war scenes. The movie won six Academy awards for Best Picture, Best Actor in a
Leading Role, Best Director, Best Visual Effects, Best Adapted
Screenplay, and Best Film Editing. The movie was nominated for seven
Golden Globe Awards. The film won three of them Best Actor - Motion
Picture Drama, Best Director - Motion Picture, and Best Motion Picture
- Drama. Forrest Gump was also nominated for six Saturn Awards and won
two of them, Best Fantasy Film, and Best Supporting Actor. The movie is
also on many lists and it mad #240 on the Greatest Movies of All Time
list. I find the movie deserving of all the awards it got and being on all
the lists it's on. The acting was great and i could really tell the
actors were into the roles they were cast for. Tom Hanks does a
wonderful job of playing a disabled man and getting the voice and
actions right. I give this movie an 8 out of 10 stars only because it
does jump around a tad bit but it works well in the terms how fast you
have to go through his whole life. The movie is wonderful and i have
watched it so many times with my family and friends. I always find
something new when i watch it over again, just those little things you
don't notice when you first watch it. I have always found that
fascinating.

******
28 September 2015
10
Forest Gump is a movie about a below average man who achieves much than
anyone would expect and while being in this journey he entertains us.
He is declared below average at school, has got braces in his legs
during childhood, has a friend jenny who he loves, has a mother who
guides him through thick and thin. After school he joins as rugby
player excels at it. After rugby he joins army excels at it. He makes
great friends with sergeant and a Bubba. After that he excels at ping
pong. Sets a shrimp business, becomes rich, runs for a record distance
continuously, gets back home. Gets out to search for jenny, who has
been in trouble a lot lately. Gets to know about his kid with jenny,
and helps him grow.The movie is simple, emotional, family drama where Tom Hanks is
excellent. Great job by director and film makers to create such a
movie.I recommend to watch this movie with family.rating: 10/10

******
27 September 2015
10
Awesome movie! This is my favorite movie. The story, the soundtrack and
the actors (Tom Hanks is excellent in this role)is very well composed.
Although Forrest Gump is considered "dumb", he manages to do great
thing with his life. A classic, definitely watch it! 10 out of 10. A
lot of laughs, serious moments, sad parts, and interesting scenes
combined into a jumble of greatness. Forrest does overcome many
obstacles, which makes this movie even greater. A classic in my
opinion. If you have ever considered watching the movie, pop it in, sit
down and prepared to be mesmerized by this spectacular movie. I hope
you enjoy this movie and much as I did!

******
26 September 2015
8
Forrest Gump famous saying "Life is but a box of chocolate you never
know what you going to get." In life Forrest had to overcome the
obstacle of having braces on his legs and eventually being able to run.
Falling in love with Jenny and his love and her saying to run Forrest
run saving his life as well as his battle in Vietnam War and becoming a
war hero. Even after all the years that past Forrest finds Jenny,
although Jenny has made wrong decision in life his love for her gives
him the ability to take care of her until her death. The theme of the
story is in life we determine what our destiny is. Not matter if we are
not smartest person in the world we cans still accomplish anything that
we put our mind too.

******
18 September 2015
6
The plot I feel is terrible, although Tom Hanks does play a good and
convincing role, he is the only thing that holds the motion picture
some justice. I judged it a 6/10 as the plot is terrible, and Tom Hanks
and the other actors did a good job of holding the act together without
them it would have half the rating. The movie is different from others
but not in good way, I would recommend watching as it is poor, only
watch it if you are Tom Hanks fan as his acting is magnificentDo not watch! Must be patient to watch, it is a slow movie, which makes
it even worse. The movie is too bad recommend, for audiences that don't
like good quality pictures

******
18 July 2015
10
The tale of Forrest Gump has always been awe-inspiring. In my youth, I
would curl up on the couch with the family and watch it religiously. We
would quote it, laugh, and reminisce of our favorite parts.Growing up, I have come to realize that the ambition that Tom Hanks
portrays as Forrest is definitely something to be desired. I always
connected with his character and never truly understood why. It wasn't
the low IQ. I am quite intelligent. It wasn't what he accomplished. I
have only done a handful of things, none of which are noteworthy. So
reviewing this film as an adult, I realized I was watching it through a
different pair of eyes. At first I thought the movie had changed. No...
I had. The reason why I connected so much with Forrest are two-fold.First, his desire for strong relationships. There were so many people
that shunned him and hated upon him, much of which I can relate to.
However, throughout the film, we remember his relationships. The love
he has for the character Jenny is so strong, it keeps him loyal
throughout his entire life, despite always taking second to someone or
something else. He knew what his heart wanted and waited patiently for
his time. His relationship with his "mama" is definitely on to be
desired. Sally Field brought a nurturing side to her son who already
had shortcomings from childhood. Yet, she always used positive
reinforcement to encourage him and build him up. His relationship with
his Army buddy Bubba was something truly remarkable. In times of
hardships, a man who he barely knew, he risked his life for. Granted,
throughout training they did get to know some about each other, but the
fact that Bubba treated Forrest like an equal is something so
commendable and it makes me want to be a better person like that.
Forrest's relation ship with Lt. Dan was, albeit, an unhealthy one from
the start, but even though Dan was a loner, gave up on life, and
despised Forrest for saving him in Vietnam, he ended up living a full
life with his new wife, who could see past his disability and truly
love him for who he was underneath.These days we don't see people behaving this way anymore. Almost like
respect is beneath us. I will treat a custodian the same way I treat a
President. People say respect is earned. No... respect is given. It
doesn't matter who you are, what matters is who you are. Within. I know
that last statement may sound redundant, but I'm sure some of you
(hopefully all of you) can see the meaning for what it's worth.Secondly, Forrest's financial gains. Throughout his life, he
accumulated a substantial amount of wealth. The greatest thing? He
didn't let it change him. He was the same Forrest he was as a child as
he was after his accomplishments throughout his amazing life. There was
no greed. There was no revenge. There was no backstabbing. There was no
hate. Just love. All he did throughout the film... was love.It is because of my thoughts on the film that truly make me reflect and
want to be more like Forrest. Despite hardships, disabilities, and hate
promoted everywhere he went, he rose above it all to maintain his
self-respect and his dignity. He chose not to let outside forces change
who he was within. I love him for that.To Tom Hanks, should he ever read this review: You did a splendid job.
I wish words could express how much I truly enjoyed your portrayal of
the great Forrest Gump, but all you need to know is that, as a child,
it brought me joy and laughter. As an adult, it did it again, just in
different ways. I commend you and I thank you.I guess it turns out that life is like a box of chocolates...

******
17 July 2015
10
You can watch this movie over and over again, and it gets better every
time. Every time it comes on television I go out of my way to watch it,
because of how great it is. It's got memorable characters,
unforgettable lines, and laugh out loud moments that will make you
laugh every time you watch it. Forrest Gump is also remarkable in the
fact that it is a stunning recap of the greater part of the 20th
century including historical moments like, the Watergate Scandal,
Vietnam War, the integration of the University of Alabama, and much
much more. If you haven't seen it yet I recommend you see it
immediately. A timeless classic that will have to captivated the whole
time.

******
1 July 2015
10
After my father did a course during the which there was quite some talk
about autism, how it works and such I finally got to see again this
movie that I had seen only once at a very young age. There are several
things (E.G. /MILD SPOILER/ the fact that Forrest is very good at Ping
pong because he's able to focus on the ball) that suggest that Forrest
is not stupid and retarded, more autistic. Which basically destroys all
the accusations of the movie being a "Sentimentalistic ode to stupidity
and ignorance".There are various things with which you can explain why "Forrest Gump"
is truly one of the best movies ever. 1st is the acting, not only of
Tom Hanks, but also of several other cast members, highlighting Gary
Sinise. Another thing to praise is the music. Alan Silvestri truly was
able to touch with this movie's music.Some consistent criticism is driven towards the story. The fact here is
the problem with understanding that this is what they call "Modern
fable", a story set nowadays that is meant to be touching and talks
about what happened in that time, similarly to "The legend of 1900" or
"the curious case of benjamin button". This genre seems to not be
understood by a pretty consistent number of viewers, therefore receives
a limited amount, but present amount of hatred.Then, when I understood that some haters of this movie are angry
because it seems to have stolen the accademy award away from other
movies such as the shawshank redemption and pulp fiction I understand
that it's just unreasoned hatred. Go watch it, it's truly wonderful.

******
12 May 2015
10
This is my favorite movie from a long time. Robert Zemerick has been my
3rd favorite Director after Christopher Nolan being 1st & Steven
Spielberg being 2nd. The music takes me to a different world. I watched
this movie when i was small. When I watch it these days , i learn a lot
about life. Nothing is impossible . You can be good at anything. This
movie will take your Evil Ego off from you. A Good movie will make a viewer say " Wow, what a Movie.." & the Best
Movie will not even give a chance to think about the movie because it
would've made him feel that its not a movie but Real things going
around him there which is changing his life.Thank You Robert & Thank You Tom... We love you

******
7 February 2015
9
but very smart! I think this made Tom Hanks one of the most popular
actors of our times! Script is very interesting and his acting is, I do
not know how to describe it, beyond fabulous! It is one of those films
which stick with you from the first moment that you see it. After I
watched it I went: It is the stupid that is so popular today in the
movie theaters? But I did not take it too seriously.I glorify its fantastic acting, camera and sets this film was filmed
in. Of course, I assume that 99 per cent of the population saw this
film. If you are within those 1 per cent, you either do not like stupid
people or you are stupid yourself ;) Just watch it!

******
20 November 2014
4
Probably the most over-rated movie of the 1990's. Who is Forrest Gump?
What is inside his head.., or heart, for that matter? All we can
establish is that he is unintelligent enough to make it in the army. Is
he handicapped? Not? He is like an anti-person, whom everything happens
to, instead of making things happen.., until he acquires inspiration
and ambition out of the blue and goes on an impossible running tour. I
have not been able to discern an actual point this movie is trying to
make, nor establish just who this mentally-challenged millionaire
really is. Maybe he appeals to so many people because they identify
with him? That is a truly scary thought, but apparently, it seems to be
the case. A pointless, stupid movie.A salute to powerlessness and vacuousness.

******
12 September 2014
9
There aren't many movies that have penetrated the subconscious of the
American zeitgeist as intensely as Gump, and it's not hard to see why.
It's a film that deftly mixes nearly every genre into one epic tale,
yet never shies away from the importance of small moments. But with
this much love, cynicism and (some deserved) scorn aren't far behind:
terms like "on-the nose" and "syrupy sweet" come to mind. But what's
the advantage of this cynicism when it's so rewarding to just sit back
and enjoy? At its core, Gump is pure Hollywood magic that deserves to
be treasured. Essentially a biopic of a fictional character, Gump is
first-person-perspective storytelling with a protagonist who sees much
but perceives littleat least not in the same way we do. Swimming in
historical fiction and even magical realism, he impacts American
history: presidents are met, classic songs are heard, Vietnam wars are
foughtyet Forrest's gaze is set on one thing: love. It's silly and
whimsical, yet consistently surprising to see Forrest navigate through
life with such sincerity and tenacity. Lest we neglect how technically
impeccable the film is. The aesthetic is simplistic and gorgeous, and
the effects (missing limbs, altered historical footage) are light years
ahead of what they should be. But these things are rarely mentioned
because they aren't the point. Zemeckis wants the movie to be the same
as its hero: simple, random, sincere. Gump's unconditional love,
overwhelming kindness, and nave determination got him wherever he
needed to be, and that journey leaves him and us in stitches, while
never abandoning hope. Manipulative? Maybeor maybe it's just great
filmmaking.

******
9 September 2014
10
When I originally watched this with my mom 20 years ago, we both were
pretty touched by the events of Forrest Gump's life and the way he
handled things. So now, watching this in IMAX with my movie
theatre-working friend, it's the same feelings all over again but now
having some additional life experiences, one notices things one hadn't
thought of before. Like how the first person who sits with Forrest on
the park bench is so uninterested in his story she takes the wrong bus
and admits it to him while the last one who sits with him doesn't take
her scheduled one because she's so immersed in hearing about his life!
Or how Jenny realizes how much she truly loves him despite the way she
sometimes treated him. Robert Zemeckis truly made a very compelling
picture. And Tom Hanks delivered a wonderful performance worthy of a
second Oscar win. Nice humorous stuff involving Hanks mixed in real
news footage of the various presidents. And great music soundtrack to
mark the times they lived in. Oh, and I loved the supporting cast of
Mykelti Williamson, Sally Field, Gary Sinise, and Robin Wright as
Jenny. With all that said, I'll now just say that Forrest Gump is worth
all the praise and adulation it has gotten over the years.

******
8 September 2014
10
Forrest Gump is a simple man with a low I.Q. but good intentions. He is
running through childhood with his best and only friend Jenny. His
'mama' teaches him the ways of life and leaves him to choose his
destiny. Forrest joins the army for service in Vietnam, finding new
friends called Dan and Bubba, he wins medals, creates a famous shrimp
fishing fleet, inspires people to jog, starts a ping-pong craze, create
the smiley, write bumper stickers and songs, donating to people and
meeting the president several times. However, this is all irrelevant to
Forrest who can only think of his childhood sweetheart Jenny Curran.
Who has messed up her life. Although in the end all he wants to prove
is that anyone can love anyone. Written by aliw135:)

******
6 September 2014
10
Forrest Gump seems to be a movie that is either dearly loved or
passionately torn down. It almost always generates discussion and is a
cultural landmark in American cinema. I haven't yet gone in to a
discussion like this, but should the moment arise, I will definitely
defend it, as it is one of my all time favorites. The thing that always
gets me is the innocence in which Forrest sees the world. He doesn't
really know what he is doing or saying, yet to us he makes a huge
difference in the world. On the other side of the coin, Jenny makes her
own choices. Choices that lead to a complicated life and an ultimately
predictable demise. Unlike other characters that seem to have a
positive impact on Forrest's life, Jenny always seems to be the light
in his life, despite being a completely dislikeable person at one point
of the movie. Once again the naive Gump doesn't judge Jenny's bad
decisions, as he still sees that lovely, but damaged young girl he met
when he was a child.As far as the movie making goes, FG presents us with a career defining
performance from Tom Hanks, as he handles the emotional conflicts very
well in the movie. In a midst of strong supporting performances, for me
Gary Sinise steals the show as Lieutanent Dan Taylor, a man whose
changes in life end up being an inspiration. Zemeckis's directing is
precise, and Roth's script is very involving: In the end though, I
think Alan Silvestri's delicate score is what accounts for at least 50%
of the movie's dramatic effect.1994 will always be a year I will fondly remember as a great cinematic
year. It features 3 Jim Carrey comedies that cemented his place in
movie history, one of the greatest animated movies of all time, and 3
best picture nominees that would become worshiped movies. Whether it's
with Pulp Fiction's violent world, or Shawshank Redemption's gritty
prison vision, or even the endearing drama story that is Forrest Gump,
this is top notch cinema.Rating: 10/10

******
27 August 2014
10
Forest Gump is an amazing film. I thought it was brilliant and Tom
Hanks as Forest was just amazing. I loved the way the storyline worked
and how he talked about his life in flashbacks to different people who
were waiting with him. I must admit I did cry twice in this movie. All
in all it will be on my top ten list. This movie will never get old no
matter how many years it has been out for. Even though they talk in a
Southern Accent it is still amazing. I think the whole aspect of Forest
Gump is amazing and I never expected it to be that good the first time
I watched it. Now I cannot stop watching it. I have seen this movie so
many times and still not over it. I would recommend this movie to
people because it certainly is a classic.

******
18 August 2014
10
I love this movie so much. It works as a comedy, and it teaches you
really important life lessons. I admit, when I first saw this movie, I
wasn't used to Tom Hanks and his southern accent. But this simpleton
shows that you can do anything you want in life if you set your mind to
it. I laughed at the times when Forrest says stuff that "Mama" used to
say. And I really liked all the historical references like Vietnam,
Watergate Scandal, and possibly the invention of the smiley face.
Forrest shows us that anyone can achieve big things in life, even if
you aren't capable. He gets the Medal of Honor, saving lives, and he
didn't need to beef up on strength or anything. He didn't even have to
pick up a ping pong paddle at an early age to be a master at ping pong.
And he didn't even need to be a track star to run a cross country
journey for a really long time. This movie really taught me to never
give up.

******
16 August 2014
9
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream.The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not
the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a
thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages between the 1950s
and the 1980s to become involved in every major event in American
history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his
shields.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The
movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of
a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are.
Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role.I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him
into a person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a
breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich
in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field) who
tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but who never
criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid," his mother tells
him, "Stupid is as stupid does," and Forrest turns out to be incapable
of doing anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally
fall from his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind.That's how he gets a college football scholarship, in a life story that
eventually becomes a running gag about his good luck. Gump the football
hero becomes Gump the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump
the Ping-Pong champion, Gump the shrimp boat captain, Gump the
millionaire stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named
Apple Computer), and Gump the man who runs across America and then
retraces his steps.It could be argued that with his IQ of 75 Forrest does not quite
understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands
everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just
surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love,
although Jenny, the girl he falls in love with in grade school and
never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't know what
love is." She is a stripper by that time.The movie is ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American
history. The director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic
that special effects can do (his credits include the "Back To The
Future" movies and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"), and here he uses
computerized visual legerdemain to place Gump in historic situations
with actual people.Forrest stands next to the schoolhouse door with George Wallace, he
teaches Elvis how to swivel his hips, he visits the White House three
times, he's on the Dick Cavett show with John Lennon, and in a sequence
that will have you rubbing your eyes with its realism, he addresses a
Vietnam-era peace rally on the Mall in Washington. Special effects are
also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt. Dan
(Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who quite convincingly loses his legs.Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is able
to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound in
what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox." And the biggest laugh in the
movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in
Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. (That's not the laugh,
just the setup.) As Forrest's life becomes a guided tour of
straight-arrow America, Jenny (played by Robin Wright) goes on a
parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course,
and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. She's into psychedelics and
flower power, antiwar rallies and love- ins, drugs and needles.
Eventually it becomes clear that between them Forrest and Jenny have
covered all of the landmarks of our recent cultural history, and the
accommodation they arrive at in the end is like a dream of
reconciliation for our society. What a magical movie.

******
28 July 2014
10
A well deserved Oscar movie. i have seen it many times. Tom Hanks has
done a masterpiece. i m looking forward for more such acting and
direction. As the movie starts the gravity starts. i have given it 10
stars for it's story and acting. Run man, Run ! I wish Indian movie
directors also take risks to make such an epic movie. there must be a
group who likes and appreciate these kind of movies based on true
spirit. by the way, i liked the movie thoroughly specially the part of
struggle and bravery. the best part is the way he tells his name. at
the end i would like to add that this kind of movies you don't see
often. it is not full of spicy contents but the movie is awesome.

******
27 July 2014
10
I think Forrest Gump is the greatest movie ever! Tom Hanks did an
amazing job of this hard role. I wasn't born when the movie came out
but it will be my all time favorite! Some people think its just a
stupid movie but all the fact and the places, people, and event he
encountered was amazingly true. i quote this movie all the time,
sometimes without knowing it. I am a high school student who just
watched the movie for a class project and for this project we had to
write a review.Forrest Gump is a beautiful film and definitely is the
film that Robert Zemeckis and Tom Hanks are most known for. It's one of
those rare movies that everyone has seen and just about everyone loves.
It's a classic and it's not hard to see why. The movie takes on the
simpleness of it's title character, Forrest Gump. It's not flashy, it's
simple, and the simpleness is beautiful.

******
15 July 2014
7
I thought this movie had lot a history in it. It made it funnier for
the audience to watch and the way he survived and excelled in each of
the obstacle was amazing but the stars it got out of 10 was the real
reason to watch this movie. As the movie progressed, the story kept of
circulating on forest. It clearly had much of the history in it and the
movie is gigantic in scale but i found this movie not that attractive
as described. The 7 is due to the gigantic portion of the movie not due
to the acting. I guess people like war and things like that therefore
it managed that much stardom. The movie could have gave some shade to
another artist as well not much but as supporting effort.

******
10 July 2014
10
This is the only film for which I can use the word "Beautiful" without
any hesitation. 6 Academy Awards, $677,387,716 in box office & 8.8
rating in IMDb combined don't say it all.Tom Hanks portrayed the role of Forest Gump more than perfectly. Other
supporting actor and actresses weren't that memorable. But that's for
the sake of the story. Robert Zemeckis probably taught us how to
direct. Hanks & Zemeckis did the best job of their career.Film editing was flawless. They shot the film in different locations
and every single one of them added a new level of greatness to the
film. The musics weren't much noticeable. Also weren't the visual
effects. Which is actually a big success, because I thought they didn't
use any visual effect.The story is simple, plain and for some mysterious reason also sad.
Forest Gump will teach you how to live life. Miracles and shits both
happen for a definite reason. You'll find out what's your destiny is,
but not before you fulfill it. Just float around like a feather and
you'll be OK. Do what you feel like, don't do it for any other reason.p.s. Those who are criticizing, there're more to a film than just the
story. And about the academy awards, open your mind.

******
30 June 2014
10
I loved the movie. I watch it as much as I can. Its great. I especially
love the Vietnam part of the movie. I find it great how it shows
compassion and romance yet a troubled story of a man. I think my
favorite character is Lieutenant Dan. He is a cocky son of a bitch but
damn he is cool. This movie is great for kids. It might even teach them
a good lesson about life. This movie is excellent in every way. It is
way better then some of these new movies. I love the story and plot.
Jenny is a bitch though. She doesn't understand how much Forest loves
her and she always pushes him away. Until she really needs him when
they have a child together. Forest goes through a lot in this movie but
he perseveres and keeps going and thats great. This is definitely my
favorite movie by far.

******
25 June 2014
9
I am not a big fan of the romance genre generally speaking because I
get my romance in side-stories in other film types like sci-fi, action,
adventure, fantasy etc. But when the movie is labeled "romance" as a
main theme then I usually will not like it... most of the "romance"
films are icky chick-flicks *ewe*! I usually need more to make the
movie interesting. Forrest Gump is one of those rare romance films that
I thoroughly enjoyed! All I can say is "Jenny, you fool! The right man for you has been there
the whole time for you and you simply do not want to admit it! Sure, He
isn't that smart yet he's smarter than all the men you have dated
combined! Go back to Forrest!" And that's all I've got to say about that! 9.5/10

******
22 June 2014
10
That' s one of these movies which combine many different emotions - in
one moment you are laughing, because of the great humour, and on the
next moment you're sad and you're barely crying. The story is very real
and honest, and on the other hand is the great performance of Tom
Hanks. In my opinion that movie keeps you thinking long after it's over
and you'll watch it again(I do that every single time when I see it at
the TV). For me "Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time.
It's incredible and should be seen by everyone - and every age. The
movie has it all too,drama,comedy and it challenges societal norms as
well - teach us how to be human! Really charming movie!

******
20 June 2014
10
as i said in the summary , i think forrest gump is the best film ever
produced by Hollywood , it contain all the ingredients of a successful
movie , the casting choice was good i think tom hanks did a very good
job in it , the music was very good , but they more important it is the
story of the film , i really loved it , forrest gump is they kind of
movie that after you see it its make believe that you can do anything ,
be whatever you want despite the problems you have in your life , its
really give HOPE and passion to continue in your life without fear of
the upcoming , so if you are hopeless and having hard times now i
really recommend this movie for you , you will really fell better after
it .

******
17 June 2014
10
I was on the hunt for good classic movies when I came across this one.
I asked a good friend of mine what she thought of it, since she had
already seen it, and she said that is was "cute". I decided to give it
a try and was shocked by how good it was. first of all, Tom Hanks is
indeed a great actor- one of the greatest I know. The way he is able to
keep that western accent for the whole movie.. It immediately added a
few points of rating for me. Second of all, The Plot! It is so
interesting and so amazingly educational, and it is also very well
presented, I almost couldn't tell the real events- the ones that really
did occur- from the "fake" ones.Now, this review is horrible, so please don't read it.

******
14 June 2014
9
I am a big fan of Tom Hanks and I have enjoyed pretty much all of his
movies over the years but it was a close call between this and the
green mile but I think forest gump is my favorite Hanks film of all
time.It's such a nice story that is told in a clever way making you feel
like a child once again, the main character played by Hanks is lovable,
you can't help but hope for the best for him and simply just want to
reach out and tell him everything will be OK. The movie has a realistic
feel even thought it's fictional but this is because of how it goes
though real time events, the main reasons why I love this movie so much
is because it's like reading a book the story line takes you to another
time and other place and the only bad thing is when it ends and you
bounce back to reality.

******
9 June 2014
10
This is the 3rd best movie I've seen. I love everything about this
movie. The acting, the story, and how almost every big news event from
the 1950s to the 1980s finds it's way in this film. Forrest Gump (Tom
Hanks) is a kid from Alabama with a low IQ of 75 and with braces on his
legs. He meets a girl named Jenny Curran (Robin Wright) and they become
good friends. Forrest starts to lead an extremely productive life.
Despite his low IQ he is accepted into the University of Alabama and
becomes part of the all American team. While there he witnesses George
Wallace stand in the door, to keep African American students out. When
he graduates he joins the US Army and serves in the Vietnam War. He
befriends a fellow boot camp recruit, Private Benjamin Buford "Bubba"
Blue (Mykelti Williamson) who has a dream of going into the shrimping
business and his platoon commander Lieutenant Dan Taylor (Gary Sinise)
who regards it as his destiny to die in combat like his ancestors
before him had all done. In one part the platoon is ambushed by the
Viet Cong. All the men are wounded. Forrest takes all the wounded men
and brings them to safety, including Lieutenant Dan. Bubba dies and
Lieutenant Dan is angry with Forrest for not letting him die in combat.
In the Army hospital Forrest takes a liking to Ping Pong and becomes
the Ping Pong champion, and receives the Medal of Honor for saving
everyone. In Washington DC he meets Jenny again who has lead a life
that is the opposite of Forrest's. She moves from failure to failure as
she becomes a hippie and takes drugs while Forrest goes to China to
play Ping Pong for the US against the Chinese team. He meets Lieutenant
Dan in New York, New York who has now fallen into depression and is
still mad at Forrest for leaving him a cripple. Forrest retires from
the Army and goes to become Captain of a shrimp boat like Bubba wanted
to do. Lieutenant Dan later becomes his first-mate and they begin to
own a very successful shrimping business. Forrest meets Jenny again and
they spend more time together before she leaves again. Then Forrest for
no reason at all decides to take a long run all over Alabama at first
and then all over the country. He meets Jenny again who now has a son
named Forrest Jr. (Haley Joel Osment) and shortly after wards Forrest
and Jenny are married, and their wedding is attended by Lieutenant Dan.
Later Jenny sadly dies. The film ends as Forrest is waiting for the
school bus to come by and pick up Forrest Jr. on the same tree stump
that Forrest's mother (Sally Field) had waited by on Forrest Sr.s first
day of school. I highly consider this to be Tom Hanks's best role in
any movie he's done. I certainly recommend this film to everyone.

******
6 June 2014
10
I think this movie is very good because it shows that no matter who
person is, he can do everything what he wants. This is the most amazing
and beautiful story about intelligence and love. The film shows that
everything is possible if you want to and you can beat every difficulty
if you have a dream. I saw this movie 2 times and I'm proud that I've
watched it, because every time I'm watching this movie, it makes me to
realize that the world can be cruel and beautiful in same time and if
people are nice, they can accept you the way you are. If you distrust
yourself, then you really must to see this movie. It will change your
mind about yourself, the people you are surrounded and the world that
you live.

******
23 May 2014
10
Tom Hanks is an amazing actor and was given the full credit he deserves
for his role of Forrest Gump. The movie is an inspiration to anyone and
everyone, from war to Elvis Presley, peas and carrots to a box of
chocolates, you never quite know whats going to happen to Forrest next.
A very unlikely man finds himself in crazy situations where he finds he
has a lot to say and I think without this film, we'd all be lost. As
well as this, the under-lying love story adds to the thrill of the
film. Jenny, his first and only love, who goes suffers greatly, is
saved by Forrest even though she tries to disregard him and rejects him
from her life.

******
11 May 2014
10
Tom Hanks, hands down, gives one of the best performances by any actor.
Ever. Forrest Gump is such a compelling, historically based, dramatic
and even light hearted film that I believe is the greatest film of all
time. Gary Sinise, or Lt. Dan, definitely should have won for Best
Supporting Actor. He plays a man with no legs for more than half of the
movie and he is such a harrowing character at large. Moreover, Forrest
Gump, undoubtedly, has some of the best lines in movie history (Run
Forrest Run, Life is like a box of chocolates, etc), but the morality
behind the film is incredible. Forrest Gump, when he runs across the
country for literally no reason, is such an inspirational moment in the
film. What I enjoy most about Forrest Gump is that he unwittingly gets
caught up in some of the most key moments in the 20th century.
Watergate, Kennedy, Civil Rights, Vietnam, Alabama Football - he's
there. And because Forrest is such a simple man, these scenes are that
much more captivating. An absolute 10/10, Forrest Gump, driven by the
once-in-a-lifetime performance by Tom Hanks, followed by a forceful
performance by Gary Sinise, is the greatest film in history in my
opinion. If you haven't watched it, you are missing out big time.
Myself, it is one of those few movies that never gets old. Fantastic
every time.

******
10 May 2014
10
I've watched many movies. And it would be really inappropriate to say
this isn't the best movie ever. There have been some complaints about
movie being too sentimental, but no. This movie is not too sentimental.
It is an unforgettable ride, a story following the life of... well, you
read the description. All I can say that this is one movie which gets
more exciting every minute, leaving you questioning what will happen to
Forrest Gump, brilliantly played by Tom Hanks in the role of a
lifetime, in the next scene. The movie feature a lot of unforgettable
characters and Zemeckis' directing is awesome. It's a movie that really
set the bar for every drama that will be filmed in the future.

******
6 April 2014
8
I find this movie funny and also a pleasure to watch. Each time I have
watched I find something new the message of this movie. Great cast. Tom
Hanks was awesome. The Message of this movie for me is never give up
and no matter what people say or do you can always move forward with
what you want to do. I love the fact that he was in the army and even
though he was not welcomed he made a long and lasting friends. Another
thing is that he was always keeping his faith in God strong and true.
He is an honest man and his momma raised that way. She did what was
best for him.even though at times is didn't seam like it. And last
thing Is that no matter what life throws at you. Have the strength and
courage and faith to always keep your head up move forward. There are
always things in life that is always going to blocking your path to
happiness get through them

******
5 March 2014
10
This filmed is one of a kind. It has all genres mixed into one movie.
Fabulous cast. The soundtrack is to die for. I want to thank everyone
who was apart of this film. It changed my life. It shows a lot of
unique parts of history. For those of you who put such a wonderful film
down...I don't know what you'd consider a wonderful movie. This is the
first film that ever made me cry. It makes me want to go back into the
day. It's a film where you'll never forget some of the lines. Hundreds
of people react the lines of this movie each day. This movie definitely
is one of my favorites. It shows many life lessons. This the best movie
Tom Hanks has ever filmed in and he is one of the best known actors of
today. I couldn't imagine how much fun the cast of Forest Gump had
while filming such a fantastic film. It must have been a lot of hard
work but it sure did pay off in the long run.

******
22 February 2014
10
Forrest Gump is one of the most delightful movies of the 1990's. This
movie has it all and delivers it all in a manor that will captivate
your imagination and will pull the strings of every sense you have. Tom
Hanks delivers one of the best performances of his life and brings
Forrest Gump to life in so many ways. If you are a big fan of Being
There with Peter Sellers then you know the direct link between the two
movies. Anything is possible and that is exactly what is delivered in
one of my favorite movies of all time. The cast is great and everyone
plays their part in this epic movie. I saw this in the box-office eight
times and cried every single time and I still do. Great movie and
amazing cast! If you have never seen this movie do so today. You will
be thanking yourself!

******
21 February 2014
9
I was long ago planing to watch this movie and when my lecturer from
university told us in a lecture about him I finally decided to watch
it. It's a great movie. Really touchable and inspiring story.Forrest Gump is nothing special, they don't even believe he is able to
graduate school like normal kids, but his mother does. She never gives
up on him and support him. She is the exact parent which a child like
Forrest needs to grown up right. Without any expectations of big
results Forrest gets beyond his possibilities and started running
though his life really fast. Even though he is not with a special
intellect potential he achieves everything that he wants. He is doing
what he wants in the moments, when he is enjoying it and he succeed.
Nothing stops him to get what he want, people's opinion is not
important for him. This movie is example for that there are no limits or restrictions for
what a person can or can't do. When you want to do something you just
start doing it, because life is short and we may loose our chance while
we are wondering when is the right time to begin. There is no more
right time than the exact moment - now.

******
18 February 2014
9
"You have to do the best with what God gave you," says Mrs. Gump. Never
realizing just how far her son, Forrest would go. With only an IQ of
75, Forrest goes to prove to his Momma and all of America that
disabilities don't have to hold one down. In this modern day version of
a fairytale, Tom Hanks accurately mimics a mentally challenged person
(Forrest Gump). He convinces audiences that he has a disability through
his line delivery, speaking in a slow choppy southern drawl, a sound
rather uncomfortable to the ear. Unfortunately we hear this speech
quite often as Forrest (Hanks) voices over the entire film, telling his
inspirational, somewhat unrealistic life story. In the 1950's Forrest
Gump's story begins. He's a child growing up in Southern Georgia, set
apart from other children because of his need to wear leg braces. His
mother pushes him, never allowing him to believe he is different from
anyone else. Although it occurs naturally throughout the film,
Forrest's ability to influence history while remarkable, is quite
obviously an overextension of reality. From teaching Elvis his first
dance moves as a child to winning a football scholarship at the
University of Alabama. Gump continues to marvel as he pushes across
barriers that people don't believe possible for someone "like him".
While some may criticize the exaggeration it was intentional by the
director, transforming the screenplay into a modern day fairytale.
Allowing Forrest to go above and beyond what is capable in real life to
plant hope and inspiration to the audience.Another achievement Forrest adds to his list is a war hero in Vietnam.
Despite the films main goal being the message not visuals director
Robert Zemeckis, a special effects whiz took advantage of the scenes in
Vietnam. Down pouring rain, hot wet rain forests, and huge explosions
that lite up the screen. Thus turning this family movie into pure
action and creating a life like war zone. Later on he demonstrates his
vision and the special effects teams' skill by displaying an injury
that takes place in the previous war scene. Lieutenant Dan Taylor
(played by Gary Sims) suffers a realistic double leg amputee. Forrest doesn't stop at war hero though, he continues to amaze. He runs
literally across the entire country for therapeutic relief and opens a
successful business which turns Forrest into a millionaire. Here the
screenplay continues to emphasize how important morals are through
Forrest, that despite his good fortune he continues to portray the
definition of a good friend and human being. As the film develops so do
Forrest's feelings for Jenny his childhood friend. Here Hanks continues
to impress by his complex emotional appeal. Forrest is slow but not
unemotional, therefore when Hank expresses his love for Jenny his
feelings are somewhat naive and abrupt. Hanks makes the audience
believe that Forrest simply feels love, and does not understand the
multitude of reasons behind why he and Jenny will never work out. The
tale of Forrest Gump may be far-fetched, but in 2 hours and 22 minutes
Hanks and Zemeckis do an excellent job of pulling audiences heart
strings, reiterating important values that seem too often forgotten.

******
24 January 2014
10
I remember seeing this movie for the first time when I was eight years
old. My grandfather always showed this to us when we were younger. It
became one of my favorite movies , not because of the story line , but
what it meant to me in real life. I remember watching the beginning
when Forrest had his legs braces, like me. I thought "He is like me and
I know how it is to be teased." considering I have mild cerebral palsy
this movie meant my life and how I can see others treat you different
when you have "special legs". I learned from this movie just because
you have special legs and you are not considered "smart" don't let that
hold you back. It never did and I'am thankful for this movie. People
need to understand just because you have a disability does not mean we
are stupid. We can do many things.

******
24 January 2014
10
actually this movie is one of my favorite movies. the story is amazing,
breathtaking. and tom hanks is rocking it! every human on earth should
watch this movie! the story shows us that no matter what we can still
do big things as long as we believe. Forrest is an inspiration for so
many. if you haven't seen this movie yet, let go everything and start
watching. after you've seen the movie something is gonna change. go and
watch! enjoy!!PS: tom hanks is great. the directors could record him as he sleeps and
still he can win the Oscar! :Dit's a movie which has 6 Oscars! c'mon! what are you waiting for?
watch!

******
13 December 2013
10
i just watched this movie for the first time, and i have wanted to for
so long but never had the time. it ended about 2 minutes ago and i am
balling. i went through half a dozen tissues and there are still tears
on my cheeks. the message is so important and so real and so relevant.
it's worth the 2 and a half hours to watch. it uses real life issues
such as the Vietnam war to get people to look at these issues and there
are so man amazing underling meanings and quotes, i now know why my
friend has a quote from this movie tattooed on her arm, it is so
impacting and real and i am not an easy crying and i am still crying as
i write this review. it is a beautiful story, and i am not writing
about anything that happens in the movie because even the slightest
detail may ruin the movie because you need to learn about it as it
happens as if YOU are the person he is talking to on the park bench. it
is just so real, 10 years later it is still real and honest and
important that everyone considering seeing this movie, and everyone who
isn't, just go out and see this movie. now. go. it's on Netflix.

******
3 December 2013
10
I gave 10 points for Forrest Gump. I also have a list of the top 10
films I have ever watched and this is the first!! Absolutely the best
I've ever seen. The story way massively interesting and it wasn't
boring. I really liked Tom Hanks' acting. The story is interesting
because it's all about Forrest's life. This film isn't funny and isn't
exiting at all. This is for the people who are touchy and nice with
other people. This film made a very deep impression in myself because
when he had a boy and ha asked is he like me? or something like that i
den't even know i watched the film on Hungarian language, so i cried
and when his mother and wife died it was so touching. Forrest isn't a
normal guy but he is the nicest. He has a heart of gold. I can't watch
a film twice but I could watch it any time, even if it takes 2 hours.

******
22 November 2013
9
I have a half brother who grew up in the Southern U.S. and on one
occasion we were discussing this film and he said he felt it portrayed
Southerners as dimwitted. I disagreed with him and informed him that
the author himself was a native Southerner. The setting is central to
this story in that it lets the tale unfold tying in factual events with
the fable before us.The film is wonderfully directed by Robert Zemeckis, the film is his
opus and is acted by a great cast on all levels. From the children who
were Forrest Gump and Gump Jr. by Haley Joel Osment. Say what you want
but I feel Tom Hanks deserved the Oscar award. Gary Sinise is
synonymous with Lt.Dan whenever you hear those words. Sally Fields is
the loving dutiful mother in her challenging situation. Mykelti
Williamson as Bubba gives you a real sense in the story that Gump had a
genuine friend, he moves you with his character. Words don't grasp the
full performance of Robin Wright Penn as Jenny. Jennys' tenderness and
pain are palpable as exhibited by Wright.

******
15 November 2013
8
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) is a simple man with a sweet heart. It's his
journey through American history. His childhood friend Jenny (Robin
Wright) would travel the underbelly flipside of the same world. His
journey is heavily influenced by his mama (Sally Field), Lieutenant Dan
(Gary Sinise), and Bubba Blue (Mykelti Williamson).Director Robert Zemeckis has added another chapter to the American
mythos. It is a magical tale where the good guys win out. That you can
rise to the top no matter what handicap you have. That a good heart
will enlighten all it touches. It is a tale worthy of Frank Capra.If I could have a wish, it is a deeper meaning to Gump's journey. For
example, he's given a chance to comment on the Vietnam war but the
sound goes out of his mike. I would have like to hear what he had to
say. But that might have been asking too much. More than anything, Gump
is not controversial.

******
12 November 2013
10
This movie is one of those that will forever impact millions. One can
always relate to this movie to either cheer them up or inspire them to
push forward through their adversities. A true inspiration if you ask
me. I have had encounters with a lot of people who have been looked at
as handicapped and laughed at because of their disabilities. When you
watch this movie it really make you rethink the possibility of an
individual and their struggles. Their are also moments when Forrest
Gump laughs at himself or makes us laugh at his actions, and that
reminds me that sometime you need to laugh to keep your spirits up and
also stop and smell the roses every now and then. Don't take life to
serious to the point you lose your smile.

******
10 November 2013
9
This made you laugh and cry all the way through, wow that was so
clichd. Tom Hanks was the perfect choice for this role he did it so
much justice and just finished the film off. It is such an unusual role
to play and is a hard type of role to fulfil but Tom Hanks was
excellent at playing Forrest Gump. He managed to portray all of the
emotions intended to the audience and really made you reflect on the
events that are shown in the film. I would suggest everyone watching this film even if you have, watch it
again. someone of any age would love this film whether you understand
the connoted meanings or not.

******
3 November 2013
10
I have seen this movie over 20 times..."Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies of all time, guaranteed. I
really just love this movie. The performances are just so unforgettable
and never get out of your head. The characters, I mean the actors
turned into them and that's what got to me. The lines are so memorable,
touching, and sometimes hilarious.watch this movie and you'll have bubba gump in your head for ever...
When Forrest makes friends with bubba it becomes the life of the movie.
This is a must see by young and old, This movie brings big meaning to
family and history through out. And who ever knew there was so many was
to fix shrimp... This will always be a great classic to me.

******
3 November 2013
10
it's a very good movie to watch everything is good and you watch it
with a good meaning when you like a movie with a good story you have to
watch Forrest grump. i liked watching it and sometimes i war just
emotional its a Good filmed movie and everyone likes is i think i say
watch it and enjoy, i gave tips film a 10 because, when you watch it it
tells you a story a good story about a bow who couldn't run without
steel. but one day he has to run and he does it. this men tells
everyone over that day. and he is so happy to tell it that everyone by
the bus-stop takes a few minutes to listen to him. he tells an
interesting story everyone would like to hear.

******
2 November 2013
10
When i was going to watch this movie,i was expecting to see a regular
love story with the classic way. But after watching it,i was really
amazed.It made me see this life from a new prospective,although forrest
was a simple man but he was able to be a very successful person with
the ability to make people around him happy.He just took keys of life
from his mother(" put the past behind you before you can move on.""Life
was like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."
"dying was a part of life"...) These few words was sufficient for him
to make the best in his life and make people around him love him. He
also said "I'm not a smart man... but I know what love is.".This
sentence shows you that you must not have an IQ of 200 to love.just
with simple sweet things,you can be the best lover. This man really
gave me life lessons that all people should always know.although we are
in the 21st century,but these ideas will always be the keys for success
and it has the thoughts that will make you always happy. "You have to
do the best with what God gave you." and you will have a happy life...

******
25 October 2013
10
Watching this film, I found it incredibly beautiful. Non of it was
predictable, a lot of different twists that weren't expected, it was
well thought through, well scripted and well casted. I thought Tom
Hanks was the perfect choice of the main role, Forrest Gump, he kept to
his character as if it was his real life being. The great thing about
this movie was the fact that it was different, it isn't a repeat of
another movie already been made. It has to be one of the best movies
made in 1994, and one of my personal favourite movies too. 10/10 with
no doubt. Excellent directing, amazing make-up, terrific acting and
well staged/set.

******
14 October 2013
9
This is a lovely comedy-drama story where the main actor has a
different perspective on life since he has a minor mental disability
and the way he faces life challenges is special. Their main characters
(Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Dary Sinise and Sally Field) take you into
this heart-warming- love-story whose plot is always changing due to the
particular attitude of the main character who lives in Alabama and who
plays many roles without any prejudice(gardener, baseball player,
runner, ping-pong player, soldier, entrepreneur, etc..) he just get
carried away by the circumstances and do every single thing simple and
easy. Based on a novel written by Winston Groom and directed by Robert
Zemeckis. I would really recommend this charming film that will move
your inner emotions and leave you a great message "Live without
complications".

******
26 September 2013
8
, Forrest Gump is the kind of guy that would take off his coat for a
stranger if they were cold. The kind of person who forgives over and
over and doesn't really want much in return besides friendship. He's
not the smartest tool in the shed, but his love and compassion for the
ones in his life go beyond what most normal people are capable of.
Everyone knows he's basically the nerdy (but witty) underdog, and he is
always teased or asked if he's stupid, to which he normally replies
"stupid is as stupid does". He joins the army after he graduates
college and meets his best good friend Bubba on the bus (a black man
who is very similar in character to Forrest, and who immediately clicks
with him). Bubba tells Forrest about the shrimping business, which has
run in his family for at least 2 generations. They make a deal to form
a "shrimping" team after they return home and split all the money
50-50. *SPOILER ALERT**DO NOT KEEP SCROLLING IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN THIS MOVIE Not very long after Bubba and Gump make their pact, Bubba gets wounded
in battle, as does their Lieutenant, Dan...and a couple other
characters. Dan wants Forrest to leave him to get killed in battle (by
bombs) because he lost his legs and he wanted to die with honor, but
Forrest picked him up despite Dan's orders, and tries to save both him
and Bubba, but after Bubba is carried by Forrest (also against Dan's
orders), he is gasping for air and dies in Forrest's arms. I think this
is one of the most important parts of the movie, because it shows not
only how humble Mr. Gump is towards his friends, but his sheer backbone
and determination to do the right thing. Thank you for reading

******
21 September 2013
10
Please don't watch this.... i have rated this movie a 10 but still i
hate it... only because this is so damn beautiful... sometimes too much
beauty creates ache in the heart... it makes you sad for once and the
next moment motivated... 1994 was one of the best year for movies, Pulp
fiction, The shawshank redemption and Forrest Gump... Everything about
this movie is perfect... no surprise that it was awarded so heavily...
sometimes i wonder why they stopped making those great movies... all we
get is some sequel or prequel of action dramas... i hope to see some
good movie soon in near future... Tom hanks please please, now move
over to the Dan brown stuff. one of the best watch ever..

******
14 September 2013
10
I just recently saw this film and I gotta say, it had to be one of the
best movies I've ever seen! This film has everything you could want in
a film, humor, sadness, drama, action, etc. The actors were fantastic,
especially Tom Hanks, who's performance is one of the best ever.Once you love this movie you can never ever forget it. it's so unique
and wonderful. just a brilliant masterpiece. i'm really lucky that i
watched this movie. Maybe thats why it took 6 academy awards.I re-watch it every year.:)I can just recommend it for everybody who wants to see a perfect movie.

******
7 August 2013
8
What can you tell about a person that he has done everything in his
life? That's Forrest Gump. Although he is not an intelligent person he
succeeded many things in his life that everyone else can not even dream
those things.It's a movie that I really liked it because of the performance of Tom
Hanks as Forrest Gump and Robin Wright as Jenny Curran, also good
performance made by mother of Forrest Gump (Sally Field).It's a very good movie that it will make you sympathize Forrest Gump
although in a few moments you will want to support him and help him to
get through the difficulties of his life.A lot of people think that it's only a drama and romance movie but I
think that it is also a movie that it has many action scenes that you
will keep you in suspense for what is going to happen...

******
29 July 2013
10
Tom Hanks delivers one of the greatest roles ever on the big screen.
Forrest Gump could not have been as excellent if somebody else was
casted as Forrest Gump. Who else could play him "Jack Nicholson". I
don't think so. He was born for that role and after he schocked
everyone in Philadelphia as a man dying from AIDS he goes and schocks
everyone in Forrest Gump and wins his second Oscar in a row. All I know
is, from the 1st line in the movie you know he was golden and would be
winner of the Oscar. He performed every scene like a true composer how
good he was. When you watch the movie you don't think it is Tom Hanks
up there, you think it is Forrest Gump and that is why Tom Hanks is one
of the greatest actors ever.

******
4 July 2013
10
Thirty years of American history seen through the eyes of a simpleton
man named Forrest Gump. Watch a little boy with leg braces evolve into
a man of many different talents which finds himself at a number of
historic moments and yet has no clue what he is doing or why... It's a
"must see" movie that manages to make you laugh even in the most
horrible moments. Even though I had my doubts, Tom Hanks performance is
surprisingly touching and funny and the chemistry with Robin Wright,
playing his true love, is obvious. To top it all the soundtrack of this
movie is one of the best I've ever heard if you're a rock'n roll fan
(Elvis Presley, Beach Boys, Aretha Franklin...). Definitely one of my
Top 10 favorite movies!

******
23 June 2013
10
Amazing movie. Story is magnificent. I watched it several years ago
when I was 13 or something and was very touched by it. It actually
helped me change something in my life today, I am trying not to
over-think everything. The film is about a man who is not smart,
actually he has a mental disorder (his intelligence is 50 or sth), but
he succeeded in everything he started doing because he chose a path
instead of thinking about it, as we all mostly do. In addition he was
also a very good person. Mistake of most people is that we all think
about pros and cons of doing something. We always ask ourselves that
question 'What if I fail?' and that prevents us from success. I think
that 99% of people worldwide already watched this film, but if you
haven't then leave anything you are doing right now and watch it, you
definitely won't be sorry.

******
10 May 2013
10
A great movie. Funny and moving. Great references to historical events.
Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie. Funny and moving. Great
references to historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie.
Funny and moving. Great references to historical events. Tom Hanks is
excellent. A great movie. Funny and moving. Great references to
historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie. Funny and
moving. Great references to historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent.
A great movie. Funny and moving. Great references to historical events.
Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie. Funny and moving. Great
references to historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie.
Funny and moving. Great references to historical events. Tom Hanks is
excellent. A great movie. Funny and moving. Great references to
historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent. A great movie. Funny and
moving. Great references to historical events. Tom Hanks is excellent.

******
2 May 2013
10
Tom Hanks proves he is America's actor as really he is such a great and
awesome actor and plays the everyman of the world like it is really a
real person and not the actor.Forrest Gump is a not too bright man but really has great intentions
and a heart of gold. And only wants to be a part of his one and only
friend's Jenny's life played by Robin Wright.As unintentionally he becomes part of the greatest historic events like
Watergate, civil rights issues, the Vietnam War, and ping pong champion
as he in the war, meets his mentor and soon to be friend, Lt Dan played
by Gary Sinise.He remains his true humble self along with only his heart of gold and
simple yet lovable self.Really a great film with acting, directing, and heart of soul and gold.
As we don't get much films these days. Way to go Tom and the other
actors!

******
13 April 2013
9
Tom Hanks has proved over the years that he is a talented and versatile
actor and his performance as Forrest Gump is easily one of his best
(only his performance in Philadelphia was better in my opinion from his
films I've seen).But it's not only Hanks performance that makes this film remarkable,
but the story itself. Forrest Gump is an unintelligent man, but he has
a heart of gold. We get to learn about his life story and everything
from childhood, his college years to his service in the army in Vietnam
to his eventual marriage to Jenny. We get to see Gump's struggles
through life as he is picked on for being unintelligent and we also get
to see some happy moments in the 2 strong friendships Gump forms with
one of his army buddies (Bubba) in Vietnam and his childhood friend and
eventually his wife Jenny.What is also great about Forrest Gump? The fact that we are presented
with a central character who we can sympathise with. It is all too easy
sometimes for film makers and their writers to create characters who we
are supposed to care about, but we start out hating, and hate them
throughout the film and then hate them at the end. This is not the case
with the character of 'Forrest Gump' It is impossible not to like
Forrest as he shows that although he isn't bright, he is still capable
of showing his emotions and empathy towards others i.e his
protectiveness for Jenny, and when he rescues most of his platoon in
Vietnam. Whilst Forrest Gump is a serious film, it does have many funny
moments like when Jenny tells Forrest Gump that she has a son called
Forrest and that she named him after his dad and Forrest Gump turns
round and says 'He's got a daddy called Forrest too'. Obviously she
then tells him that Forrest is his son.Is this film perfect? Not quite - Forrest Gump's continual running
seemed pointless to me, although it was fun to watch.Forrest Gump is a wonderful film with a basic story about the life of a
truly remarkable person and is well worth your time.

******
26 March 2013
9
I seen this movie in the theater when it first came out. My mother,
grandmother, great grandmother, and my two older brothers were all
together. I have loved this movie since I first saw it. His longing to
be loved by Jenni and the adventures the longing took him on are
priceless. Just some regular guy having his foot in all these important
moments in U.S. history. On a lonely day or when I need to put things
in perspective and get a laugh, I pop this one in. I laugh, I cry, I
think, I relax, I wonder and then I cry again at the end. I definitely
like his mother and Jenni dying in the movie. It is very realistic that
way. Watching Forrest sit on the stump waiting for little Forrest to
come back and the feather taking off is a memorable moment for me. He
lost important people in his life and gained something so priceless on
the way. Jenni was gone but yet he still had a part of her, the best
part. Life goes on and you take the bad with the good. I also learned
life won't happen for you if you sit on the couch all day feeling sorry
for yourself.

******
21 December 2012
10
I thin this is the best movie ever made. I love it since my childhood.
It's charming, it's beautiful, it's humorous, it's sad it has got
everything that a perfect movie needs. Tom Hank's portrayal of Forrest is so perfect that you will remember it
forever. The direction is perfect too. The music is absolutely
brilliant. The effects are very well done, and the characters are so
perfectly done. It really deserves those Oscars.I'm really happy that it's between the TOP 250 films.:)I re-watch it every year.:)I can just recommend it for everybody who wants to see a perfect movie.

******
20 December 2012
8
"Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates. You never know
what you're gonna get."  Forest Gump.Forest Gump is not just a movie it is art, which bounces around in
comedy, romance and drama. The nave life of an individual who touches
lives and influences his nation as a whole. Robert Zemeckis balances
this movie in such a way that when you think you are getting swayed in
the comic area he moves to romance, the moment you start to smile at
blind love, he switches to drama/intrigue which captivates you.This movie has everything for everybody and its delivery is such that
you remember the movie more for the adventures of Gump than his effects
on America's history. Many Visual effects were used in the movie to
incorporate Gump with historical American footages, like when he met
President Kennedy.The movie is based on the 1986 novel of the same name by Winston Groom.
The book and the movie do have some similarities and differences, the
movie itself is based on the first 11 chapters of the book then skips
to the end, some of the other occupations that Gump was involved in
were omitted. Some parts that were not in the book were also added like
his need for leg braces, also his autistic level in the book is more
than what we see in the movie.The film is about an overly naive autistic man, named Forest Gump (Tom
Hanks), whose life between his birth and the time he found out about
his son Forest Jr. ran through American history, touching lives and
influencing others.The most interesting thing to me is that Forest Gump was the man
responsible for revealing the Water Gate scandal during Nixon's regime
(this is bogus mind you).Winning six out of the thirteen Academy Award nominations, among the
six awards, Forest Gump won Best Picture, Best Actor (Tom Hanks) and
Best Director (Robert Zemeckis), the movie also won Three Golden Globe
awards for Best Drama Picture, Best Actor (Hanks) and Best Director
(Zemeckis)Forest Gump was a financial success, recouping more than 10 times is 55
million production cost, this movie has stood the test of time as a
classic that all should have in the shelves. It is also recognized by
the American film Institute, The film ranks 37th on their 100
Years...100 Cheers and 76th on their 100 Years...100 Movies (10th
Anniversary Edition). www.lagsreviews.com

******
14 December 2012
10
this is the best movie i've ever seen. no movie has ever touched me
like this one. tom hank's acting was just so great. this is the kind of
movie people will love forever. the thing is if you can't feel this
movie then you won't like it very much. once you love this movie you
can never ever forget it. it's so unique and wonderful. just a
brilliant masterpiece. i'm really lucky that i watched this movie. such
a romantic movie. i really don't understand how on earth some people
can't like it. it's ridiculous. the rating 8.7 on IMDb is really low.
it shouldn't be less than 9.0 at all. i strongly recommend that if you
haven't watched it then you must watch it

******
28 November 2012
8
Three of the greatest films of all time came out in 1994: The Shawshank
Redemption, Pulp Fiction and Forrest Gump. Each were absolute
masterpieces and I thoroughly enjoyed each of these movies. 'Forrest Gump' is one of the better drama films I've ever seen. The
casting for this film was brilliant, as was the directing and writing.
The script was brilliant and the acting was phenomenal, especially by
Tom Hanks. This film, is very similar to 'Edward Scissorhands' in many
ways and are the two greatest romance films I've ever seen. What I found interesting about this film is how everything is narrated
by Tom Hanks' character, Forrest Gump, whilst sitting at a bus stop and
telling his life story to other people. The fact that the end tells us
that Forrest is waiting to catch a bus to meet Jenny, the love of his
life, after all these years was great. The scenes where we realize that
Jenny has a kid named Forrest Jr. and that he is the father was nicely
done. When Jenny died, you can feel the emotion and feel such pity for
Forrest as the chemistry between the two was good, the music was very
quiet and most importantly, they were characters we felt connected to. The other two great chemistries were between Lieutenant Dan and Forrest
as well as Buba and Forrest. The scene where Bubba dies was extremely
sad as I would've loved to see him for longer. Pretty much a classic film!

******
13 November 2012
10
The movie Forest Gump Was the best movie that Tom Hanks ever stared in.
Tom Hanks has stared in hundreds of movies that were instant hits but
Forest Gump was by far his top performance. There are also many aspects
that make this movie the top movie of its time. One scene particularly
of the movie really describes what kind of man the main character is
and, gives a big glimpse of who he is.Tom hanks has stared in many hit movies; like, The Green Mile, Saving
Private Ryan, And The Da Vinci Code. This movie is different that other
because it really suits the personality of Tom Hanks and, in the making
of this movie it is obvious that he had a lot of fun portraying the
role of Forest Gump. The character Forest Gump is portrayed as a man
who as a child was bullied a lot as a child because of his leg brace
and lack of intelligence. He never new the importance of his life. As a
child he met Elvis Presley and gave him the inspiration to do his dance
moves that were considered atrocious in that day in age. Also had a
great talent for running as he discovered as he was running from
Bullies who were on bicycles and a truck chasing him through the
fields. As he grew up he didn't gain much more brain power but gained
the power of care, empathy, and love. This screen play is sure to make
you cry but laugh just as much. That is exactly what the directer
Winston Groom was trying to achieve with this film.Furthermore, this film is considered by me and thousands of other
people across the globe. This movie won 26 awards and nominated for
countless others. Critics have made this a easy 8.7 but, I would give
it a ten. Sure to make laugh cry and all of the in between. This was
the best movie made its century because of the selfless acts that the
main character, Forest Gump had done for his country and those around
him. His lack of knowledge on curtain subjects he makes up in his
empathy for others and the selfless acts for his friends and family.Although, Forest talks funny and some may consider this annoying. This
is a long movie that jumps from scene to scene and one has to be deeply
involved in the story line to understand it. People may also question
the authenticity of all acts that Forest Gump did. People may also get
confused with all of the character that are introduced and later plays
a important role.Nevertheless, Forest is a small town man who listens to what he is told
and always remembered the quote that everyone has hear one time or
another, " Mama always said life was like a box of chocolates you open
it up and you never know what your going to get." That really meant a
lot to Forest because he keeps a open mind to all options and everyone
has a place in his heart. For example he just joined the military, and
met someone named, Bubu. Bubu and Forest soon became good friends and
when Bubu got injured in the battle field, Forest ran back into the
dense jungle riddled with gun shots and explosions in search of his
friend Bubu with out thinking. This really gave a big inside view on
the character of Forest Gump. However, the choice is up to you. Do you think this is a movie that you
would thoroughly enjoy? Or just another movie that goes down in your
list of movies that you wish to see. It just depends on the kind of
movie you enjoy and connect to. If you like comedy, romance, war all in
one movie, then I would bump it right up to the top of your list of
things to watch.Forest Gump

******
12 November 2012
10
I do not mean to sound like a 'fanboy', but this film was simply
amazing. It is one of the rare films in the modern age to teach the
audience a lesson, a moral even - pure good deeds, and a kind heart are
always welcomed within society.Tom Hanks played Forrest extremely well. Even in the first scene where
we see him sitting on a bench, without dialogue we can tell that this
character is mentally challenged. He barely even uses body language.
Hanks plays Forest extremely well through all the different stages off
his later life. Forest is just a nice character, not wanting to hurt
anyone or anything. A real heart-warming character.This film has been beautifully directed by Robert Zemeckis. I am a fan
of Zemeckis, he has directed other favourite films of mine such as the
Back to the Future trilogy, Cast Away and The Polar Express, but this
is his best work yet. The way he makes the audience feel the characters
is very well done. Whilst watching this, I felt so many different
feelings such as guilt, sadness and joy - which is what this film is
all about. His work on Forrest Gump has been recognised, as he won Best
Director at the Academy Awards, as well as five others. Whilst watching this film, I and I'm pretty sure everyone else who has
seen it, felt the feelings of Forrest. From his school days getting
bullied and his beloved Bubba dying in Vietnam, to receiving a Medal of
Honour and becoming a millionaire. I cannot emphasise enough, that Tom
Hanks played this role to perfection.I love the way the film is told through Forrest. He tells people at a
bus stop the story of his life, and the people listening in really
represent the audience, as they get drawn into the story and simply do
not want it to end. I also like the way in which Zemeckis has included
the white feather at the beginning and end of the film.As a whole, this film is brilliant, and I recommend it to absolutely
anyone. It is so inspiring, and everyone can be like Forrest.

******
9 November 2012
10
Forrest Gump was absolutely incredible. There are many reasons for
this; the movie was acted elegantly being one of them. Also, the story
line was rivetingly moving. Lastly, there are many quotes from the film
that simply unforgettable. Those are the reasons why Forrest Gump is so
incredible.First of all, Forrest Gump is such an amazing film because the acting
made this movie so memorable for everyone who would watch it. Even
though Tom Hanks has had many other amazing performances such as Woody
from Toy Story, his role as Forrest is by far the most memorable in my
opinion. Furthermore, Robin Wright does an incredible job as Jenny, who
is Forrest's true love in the movie. The combination of these to stars
was instantly recognized by many as a recipe for a film that would warm
the hearts of many for decades to come. That is why the acting in
Forrest Gump helps to make this motion picture so amazing.Secondly, a reason that I feel makes this movie so incredible is that I
have never seen a movie that has had a story line that is so moving.
There are so many events that happen in this movie that make me want to
cry because they make you feel so good inside that these things have
happened. For instance, When Forrest meets up with Jenny fret not
seeing her for a few years and meets his son was incredible. He asks
Jenny as his son gets on the bus, "Is he smart?" Jenny responds with,
"He's the smartest in his class." This scene is without a doubt the
most moving scene that I have ever seen in a movie, ever. That is why I
feel that the story line of this movie is more riveting, heart-warming,
and moving than any other movie out there.However, there are a couple elements in this movie that some people
would view negatively about this masterfully created movie. Some events
are completely preposterous, but they help make the movie's plot
tremendously, and they make you appreciate reality more. For instance,
there is no way that any human would be able to run across the country
three times in a row only stopping to eat and use the restroom.
However, this event makes the movie interesting and only makes you
realize how far someone can go to overcome adversity.Finally, the last reason that I have that contribute to the masterpiece
that is Forrest Gump is that some of the quotes that were made
throughout the film are very memorable. One quote made by Forrest makes
you really think about life; "My momma always said, 'Life was like a
box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get.'" This is
possible the greatest movie quote of all time. Another quote, which was
made by Mrs. Gump; "You have to do the best with what God gave you."
This quote makes you realize that there are always going to be
struggles in life, but you have to make the best out of everything that
God puts upon you. That is how the quotes from Forrest Gump help make
this movie one of the best films of all time.In conclusion, I challenge you, the reader, to watch the masterpiece
Forrest Gump and look out for the choir group, "The Hallelujah
Singers." This is a group led by Marleena Smalls of Beaufort, who
played Bubba's mother in the movie. Also, watch for more memorable
quotes, amazing performances by actors, and events that will move you
an make you feel warm inside. Forrest Gump is truly one of the greatest
films of all time, and it is both a memorable movies ever; this is
because of all of the reasons that have been stated above.

******
30 July 2012
8
"Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you might get."
This rings so true from this story of perseverance, survival and love.
'Forrest Gump' is such a beloved classic drama from the 1990s starring
Tom Hanks as the title character (he won the Best Actor Oscar that year
for this film), a simple man from Alabama who experienced many
life-changing events from the Vietnam War in which he served to the end
of his beloved's life from an unknown virus (she is played by Robin
Wright(she no longer has Penn attached these days)). This film touches
the heart of any viewer as he or she watches how the world changes in
the eyes of this simple country man with an IQ of 70. This is an
ingenious story that will make you want to watch this over and over
again.

******
29 July 2012
10
It's kinda extremely difficult for me to overestimate such a
masterpiece because of its glutted images and metaphors through every
single moment. Every detail, every action means something in this
films, there is no scenes just for eyes watching with brain relaxing.
And sooth to say I'm very tired with hearing reviews about "the film
about a down". A retard (in accordance with the medical sense)? I
agree. But human after all, much more humane than anybody else because
of the absence of evil within. This is the toughest issue - only a
retard (or mentally challenged) person can be truly humane in the
modern world? "Forrest Gump" is not a manual for ones who want to
become a millionaire or a great player or get lucky. This film is about
life with many things it contains - from life values to a country
history. Furthermore, they all are shown in a different light. So,
Forrest Gump is a simple guy without mastermind at all, but squeaky
clean and morally healthy man at the same time. He believes in things
another people forgot, he has pure heart, being naive, but honest,
frank, unmercenary and true friend. He is guileless, though he seems to
be an idiot in the eyes of others. Despite of it Gump does make a
difference between good and bad things, truly good and bad ones. And I
discern this movie as a parable about human being, human life. "Stupid"
Gump couldn't understand what was the life: "...if we each have a
destiny, or if we're all just floating around accidental-like on a
breeze...maybe it's both." But who can say the absolute truth about
what is life being? The eternal mystery.P.S. Another point of the film is about parenting (remember "momma
always said") and how it affects the life time. So Keep an eye on your
children, try to be wisdom as possible as you can.

******
21 July 2012
10
Its a must watch movie for everybody, who wants to see the real picture
of life. Indeed every living thing have different experiences in their
life span, out of them, we human beings are fortunate enough to speak
and express our emotions our thoughts to others. So, instead of giving
your valuable time in reading the reviews of what people said after
watching this awesome close to life flick, just watch and collect the
share of your experience... I can definitely say, this movie is also
one of the collectors copy, which every movie lover can keep in their
library and share the same with their next generation as vintage movie
of our time ................

******
6 July 2012
10
When Forrest Gump was released in 1994 it was more of an event than a
movie release. This is a brilliant movie...it is full of wisdom and
simple truths. Recently, some of the top physicists in the world have
seriously questioned if intelligence is a good thing. The only things
on earth that like intelligence are home sapiens...and they invented
it. The dinosaurs were not intelligent, yet ruled the world for 150
million years. Modern man has ruled the world for only a little over
200,000 years, and with all his "intellegence" has made a very bad job
of looking after the planet. Homo sapiens probably have very little
time left here on earth. When we meet Forrest Gump (brilliantly played
by Tom Hanks) he is a young boy. He has an I.Q. of 75. When he is a man
he functions like a man with an I.Q. of about 85---88. His simplicity
gives him implicit honesty and a foundation of pure goodness. Things
always appear to go right for Gump and after a stint in the Vietnam
war, he becomes a very rich man. Religion, mysticism and and the
political process are three of many things that Forrest cant
understand. But he is a banner holder for that dying human
behaviour.....common decency. There are other fundamentally simple
messages in this great movie. As a piece of entertainment it is
magnificent. As a lesson to us all on how we should live...it is
spiritual. Much deeper than most people realize...this is a
contemporary classic.

******
25 June 2012
10
This movie is phenomenal! It's amazing and once you see it, you will
want to watch it over and over again! It's truly a breath-taking film
where Forrest teaches Elvis Presley to dance, becomes a football star,
meets John F. Kennedy, serves with honor in Vietnam and meets one of
the greatest friends on Earth named Bubba, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks
at an anti-war rally at the Washington Monument, hangs out with the
Hippies, defeats the Chinese national team in table tennis, meets
Richard Nixon, discovers the break-in at the Watergate, opens a
profitable shrimping business, becomes an original investor in Apple
Computers, and decides to run back and forth across the country for
several years. Also, never to forget his one true love Jenny. It is a
romantic comedy for all ages to enjoy and learn about events in our
past and many more things. Ignore others bad reviews and see it for
yourself! Then voice your opinion because others might have different
reviews on this movie. Overall, I loved it so much that I got some of
his sayings in my head, "Stupid is as stupid does" and "Life is like a
box of chocolates you never know what your going to get"! Favorite
movie of all time! Go watch it! :)

******
7 June 2012
10
Honestly, I never get sick of this movie. Its got all of the elements
of a great film (director, cinematography, editing, acting) and I can
always watch it and never get tired of it. This is one of my favorite
movies, and I think its pretty much one of everyones favorite movies. I
can't imagine anyone disliking this film. That's pretty much all I want
to say about the film, but it says that Im required to write ten lines.
In that case, like my band on facebook!
www.facebook.com/GlassCowOfficial I understand that is shameless
promotion, but i need to fill space. Anyways, I'm going to end my
review here, and I truly hope that my opinion helps persuade you to
watch this movie.

******
31 May 2012
10
I was a mere six years old when this film came out. I have watched it
probably a dozen times until the most recent. I avoided watching this
movie again because because we've all seen it "a million" times, but I
recently watched this movie with a more critical eye. I can now say
with confidence that "Forest Gump" is not only a heart warming tale,
but an inspiring and re-watchable film. I absolutely fell in love with
Forest's perception of the world. I found my self trying to diagnose
him with autism or Asperger syndrome, then realizing that he simply
loves every human being. Also I realized that being intelligent isn't
all that important in the grand scheme of things. If having a high I.Q.
is what makes a man someone to look up to, then, the quote, unquote in
quotes "Brilliant" Bobby Fisher would be a pillar of society. Forest Gump makes one realize what is really important in humanity. Re-
watching this film changed my outlook on life.

******
14 May 2012
10
This film stands in a class of its own. Right from the start when we
see a single white feather drifting around on the breeze until the end
of the film you feel as though you are being carried along on an
adventure that breathes life back into living. Tom Hanks is simply
outstanding as Forest Gump and quite honestly I cannot imagine any
other actor in the role of Forest Gump, Tom Hanks has made the role
completely his own. Sometimes when I see Tom Hanks in other film roles
I imagine him still playing Forest Gump. Forest Gump isn't
extraordinary in any way, but the things he experiences are beyond the
normal man. You do have to pinch yourself though at times. Is this
really happening to Forest Gump or some figment of his fertile
imagination. One man mocks Forest Gump for telling tall stories, while
another woman present at the same time realizes that what he has been
telling them is in fact true, but maybe with some embellishment thrown
in for good measure.Forest Gump does it all: plays American football, can run like the
wind, has been to the White House to meet multiple American Presidents,
gone to war, represented his country at ping-pong, saved peoples lives,
befriends somebody who is crippled, run a shrimp fishing business, run
across the United Statesand loved a girl. Some people may think that
Forest Gump is stupid, but it is a fact that you will find yourself
charmed completely by this simple but honest man. You will take him to
your heart and see things like he does, in an uncluttered way. And,
without doubt you will have a tear or two in your eyes by the end of
Forest Gump.

******
25 February 2012
10
There is too much to be said about these masterpiece. It's very deep,
sad and funny, it's pure life with many aspects and problems described
very deeply and using beautiful and artistically perfect scenes(i.e.
the questions of family abuse and racism (violence) in the world - in
the scene at Black Panther party, when they talk about stopping any
violence in the country, and their chief beats up Jenny at the same
time). I cannot even count all powerful scenes of the movie(it MUST be
watched several times to get all of them(for me at least:). But
together with numerous genius scenes, it's really amazing how the
simple truths in life are touching me in this movie. Like when Forrest
admires the beauty of nature, saves his friends, happy about meeting
old friend, full of emotions meeting his son, cries when loosing his
closest people - there is nothing new about such scenes. But I believe
and share his emotions, because he is true and honest.

******
13 November 2011
10
I find it very difficult to understand why people who call themselves
film lovers can hate this film, while people are entitled to their
opinion I truly believe some people find it hard not to over analyse
films; my own sister is one of the haters!! This film is all that is
innocent and morally good in everybody, not just Americans. Forrest
Gump is not stupid he simply sees the good and the truth in all things,
he goes out of his way to do the right thing no matter what the
circumstance. This film is beautiful in every aspect, the casting is
superb and the narrative itself is breathtaking and unbelievably
moving. I love every aspect of this film and I do wish that people who
do not like it sit down open their eyes and simply see the beauty
within this film and if you still don't like it watch it again because
I guarantee you will have missed something.

******
18 October 2011
10
the year 1994 i thought i saw something special. pulp fiction came to
my eyes, i thought wow. that is a film...then i saw shawshank
redemption,a film that gives us everything based on hope, friendship and
redemption,simple prison drama people thought. yet when they have watched it, it
made them cry...i thought best film I've ever seen, no way will there
be a film better than this. then i watched forest gump for the first
time...simple little forest gump, no hopes for a future as it seemed as
a youngster, how it states...hes spine is crooked as a politition, were
gonna straighten it all out for him,, this film will give people with
disadvanteges hope. an all star cast with the best performances of
there lives.. Gary Sinise said, when he got the script he was puzzled,
saying how will this work i don't get it. when he learnt he's lines he
burst into tears wondering how he has been involved with such beauty..
Oscar went to the right film. we will never see a line up for best
picture again like that ever..thank you for this work of art.. because
if heaven was in a movie, this was it.

******
17 June 2011
10
When I saw Forrest Gump, Rocky suddenly became a close second on my
list of favorite movies. Although both these movies are totally
different in genre, budget, plot and even levels of acting, their
common ground in my opinion is they are both underdog stories. But why
Forrest Gump is my favorite movie of all time is way beyond its
underdog factor. It is the nature of the film, with an overwhelming
message of innocence of heart and purity of soul that I still find an
unfathomable experience every time I watch this movie. I have watched
it many, many times, and each time I am deeply moved by its simple yet
profound inner meaning.As Alan Silvestri's soul stirring original score plays through the
opening credits, a single white feather twists, turns and drifts
through the air, ultimately landing near the protagonist's dirty
running shoes. Waiting at a bus stop, Forrest Gump picks up the feather
and places it in a bedtime story book he's had since a kid. As another
patron sits besides him waiting for a bus, Forrest narrates his epic
yet unbelievable story. And what a story it is! In flash backs it
narrates how as a child he was an outcast in society only because his
IQ is below average and acceptable levels. But as Forrest continues his
story, the one person who believes he is no different from anyone else
is his mother, and through her can-do attitude, how he got to be where
he is: A decorated Vietnam War hero commended by the US President, an
international sports icon commended by another US President, how he
influenced pop culture, and how he got to be recognized by Fortune
magazine as a multi-millionaire.The very few cynical critics who also enjoyed this movie, feel Gump's
fortune from impossible twists of fate are implausible coincidences any
real person may never encounter however lucky that person may be, more
so with below average intelligence. Maybe so. But let's not forget,
Albert Einstein had to re-sit his college entrance examination before
he started theorizing rocket science. Coming back to Gump, you have to
see him to believe that honesty and loyalty are virtues very few people
possess, but for the ones that do, achieving greatness will seem like
miracles from heaven.And now for the people who made it all happen. Collecting his second
Oscar for best actor in two consecutive years (first Oscar as Andrew
Beckett in Philadelphia, 1993), Tom Hanks as Gump is absolutely
outstanding and redefines the way you pronounce the word 'chocolate'.
Easily the most memorable role of his career thus far, Hanks will make
you laugh, cry, and fall off your seat doing both. To this day, John
Travolta regrets having turned down the role, and for good reason, as I
can't think of anyone else who could have done it the way Hanks did.
Playing Gump's only friend, mentor and commanding officer having lost
both legs in Vietnam is Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan in his first and only
Oscar nominated supporting role. Another exceptional feat here, and
together with Hanks, forms some of the best parts in the movie. Hanks
and Sinise would appear again just a year later in the dual Oscar
winning Apollo 13. Playing the women influencing Gump's life is Sally
Field as his "mama" and Robin Wright as his one true love, building on
a life long relationship since childhood. Both Field and Wright's
characters are played flawlessly in a way where Gump's method of
reasoning comes from his mother while the inspiration behind his
adventures comes from Wright's character as Jenny. Also worth
mentioning is Michael Conner Humphreys as young Forrest, who reportedly
influenced Hanks' southern Alabama accent and the introduction of Haley
Joel Osment as Gump's adorable son. Yes, the same kid who sees dead
people in Sixth Sense.Finally, kudos to director Robert Zemeckis for this brilliant
achievement in contemporary film making. Adapted for the screen by Eric
Roth (another Oscar) from Winston Groom's novel of the same name,
Forrest Gump is to Zemeckis what the Mona Lisa is to Leonardo DA Vinci.
Besides the six Oscars generated including "Best Director" and "Best
Picture", the true mettle of his work lies in integrating the various
components of this film into one history altering, ground breaking,
block-buster. What we have here is one movie with multiple genres of
war, comedy, romance, drama and tragedy all rolled into one
unforgettable classic. With friends like Steven Spielberg and Josh
Lucas, visual effects and CGI are incredible to say the least. And to
think this film was made more than a decade before Celine Dion's duet
with Elvis Presley. If I explain that last line, I'll be letting out
some of the best treats of the film. The only way Zemeckis can undo
himself now is if he makes a sequel.For those who think Forrest Gump is too much of a dim-wit to make it in
this real and fierce world, then these are the people to watch out for,
because they are predators who can screw you over without so much as
batting an eye lid. And for those who think Forrest is a character in a
modern fairy tale, then stop for a second and reflect on what a fairy
tale really is. It may be nothing but a fable, but it is always a
fictitious story with a moral message. Whether this fable has a happy
ending doesn't really matter, as long as the moral of the story is
understood loud and clear. And so I can go on and on as to why you
should watch this movie, or buy it and frame it and buy another copy
just to watch it every other month; but I can never emphasize enough
that each time you watch this movie, it will be like reading a chapter
from Chicken Soup for the Soul.

******
16 June 2011
9
Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump, a man regarded by most in the community
as having a below average IQ, who experiences many magnificent things
throughout his life. His journey takes him across the globe
experiencing many historically significant events along the way.
Throughout this journey full of accomplishments Forrest far surpasses
the expectations that many of his critics had for him. Although his
life, as full of successes as it was there was one thing that eluded
him, his true love, Jenny. Jenny, played by Robin Wright, was Forrest's
lifelong friend and loved interest in the film. "Forrest Gump" is the
story of a man, who despite the many obstacles' and road blocks in his
live rises above these challenges and proves that a man's willpower,
persistence, strength, and love are more important than any God given
abilities in life. Forrest attends and graduates college on a football
scholarship, enlists in the army, serves in Vietnam, meets numerous
presidents, successfully runs a shrimp boat business, becomes a husband
as well as a father. Throughout his story Forrest teaches us many
lasting life lessons."Forrest Gump" demonstrates that doesn't matter if you are different.
It doesn't matter if you have a handicap. You can decide how to deal
with it. Every human being is worth exactly the same, and even if you
are in a position of disadvantage you don't have to be depressed. All
that you need is the will to look at the bright side of life. All you
need is the feeling for true love, friendship and the determination to
make yourself and others happy. At times in our life we will realize
that things will happen to us that are out of control, but the most
important thing is to remember that they way we react to these things
is in our control. Intelligence isn't the most important attribute in
life. The truly important values are happiness, friendship, love,
courage and freedom. The film Forrest Gump proves that our lives are a
combination of destiny and floating through life like a feather in the
breeze.The film "Forrest Gump" is very similar to the film "Benjamin Button."
Both of these movies involve characters, Forrest and Benjamin, who are
faced with, and overcome the unique challenges in their lives. Forrest
is mentally slower than most average people are, but he proves that
determination and perseverance are just as valuable in life, and with
the refusal to give up, anything is possible. Benjamin Button, played
by Brad Pitt, encounters his own unique setbacks in his life. He is
born with a disorder that makes him age backwards. He's born as a
wrinkly baby who is aged as if he were in his 80's. As he gets older
his age makes him appear younger. Although this may seem like a big
setback for some Benjamin preservers throughout his life and
accomplishes many incredible feats just as Forrest did in "Forrest
Gump."The special effects in the film "Forrest Gump" help demonstrate the
theme of the movie. A perfect example of how the special effects
support the theme of this movie is that Lt. Dan, who is injured in
Vietnam, is portrayed throughout the movie as having no legs. In all
actuality the actor playing Lt. Dan does have his legs throughout the
film. The use of computer generated imaging helps the audience see Lt.
Dan throughout the movie after Vietnam with no legs. Lt. Dan, although
very depressed early on after his injury overcomes his new fate and
becomes a successful, functioning member of society and even gets fake
legs in the end of the movie. It is obvious through Lt. Dan, much like
Forrest, that in life it doesn't matter if you are different than
everyone else, what matters is what you make of your life. You may be
drifting through life in a breeze but with some good decisions and a
little destiny everything can work out in the end.Symbolism is another element that helped contribute to the theme of
Forrest Gump. The white feather that is present in both the beginning
and end of the film is representative of numerous characters in the
movie. Each character is floating through life "accidental like on a
breeze." Forrest is most representative of this. After briefly learning
of his character, it would never be expected of him to accomplish the
things he does in his life. It seems that his fate is almost
"accidental like." Forrest never really planned his life out, things
just kept falling into place for him. The symbolism of the feather is
also indicative of Jenny's character in the film as well. Jenny drifts
through life, most of the time struggling, never trusting herself or
anyone else around her. She drifts through phase to phase in her life,
but in the end, like destiny, she ends up back with Forrest.Even though Forrest has some disadvantages in his life, he doesn't let
these hold him back. He lives his life like the feather in the wind
that is present in both the beginning and the end of the film. Forrest
goes through life wondering what will happen next for him, longing for
Jenny's love, but letting the winds of his life guide him throughout
his journeys. And in the end, like destiny, Forrest and Jenny get to be
married together and start a family.

******
20 May 2011
10
"Mama says 'stupid is as stupid does'". That was a quote from one of
the best movies of all time. "Forrest Gump" is the story of a man from
Alabama with a low I.Q., whose personality is different from others,
but ends up achieving many goals including football, Vietnam,
shrimping, table tennis, etc. The story has words spoken by the
beautiful writing of Eric Roth, and it was magically directed by Robert
Zemeckis. The amazing visual effects were added to plant Tom Hanks in
historical landmarks, which makes that kind of movie, a magical movie.
The film had a brilliant cast involving Gary Sinise, Robin Wright,
Sally Field, and the incredible Tom Hanks as the witted Forrest,
himself. The movie was an incredible look of being different while
being special, and never knowing what to do in life cause it just
happens to you without knowing. That's why I respect this excellent
film. This is one of my all-time favorite movies for a reason. It had a
terrific cast, it had heart, it meant something, it was entertaining,
and it was also quite incredible. A movie like this deserves to be
recognized as a excellent movie. Next to "Titanic", "Forrest Gump" is
my second favorite movie of all time. I enjoyed the hell out of
everything, and my heart always feels special every time I watched.
This is an amazing motion picture, no doubt about it. It's just a shame
that nobody can respect the movie's Best Picture Oscar win objectively.
Like my Mama always says, "life is like a box of chocolates, you never
know what you're going to get". You know what, Mama was right about
that! "Forrest Gump", in my review, "A fantastic journey seen through
the human eye".

******
2 May 2011
10
Well, firstly i was caught sleeping when i first watching this movie in
the war scene. but 2nd time i completed it, n boy i should have been
really stupid to sleep in the first place. this movie depicts the
picture of a underprivileged kid, but it also teaches everyone has a
unique talent in them, no one is inferior. its a heart touching movie,
and the acting is a true masterclass. this should be one of the best
acting performance ever, not just the arduous nature of role the
character demands but also with how ingeniously its done. the
dialogues, role-play, and all everything is nearly perfect.this movie
is laudable not only for hanks acting performance but also for its
splendid storyline, and the way it progresses.never keeps you bored and
keeps you wanting for more.

******
12 February 2011
8
ATTEMPTING TO WRITE a review for this film has proved to be a very
difficult job; in fact, it is probably the toughest review that we have
encountered over this past decade. Producing a write-up is generally on
one's overall like or dislike of the Film in question. Consequentally,
our better efforts are rated higher than others for that very reason.
Passionate prose requires a rationing of fist class, 'Grade A' fuel;
strictly High Octane.THAT WE HAVE no really strong opinion about the worth of this now
classic, Oscar laden favourite, leaves us with what we fear will turn
out to be a figurative stalemate, a split decision, a statistical draw.
And we are reminded of former Notre Dame Football Coach Frank Leahy,
whose eloquence in surmising what it is like to neither come out a
victor, nor failing in the attempt to secure a win.TO BEGIN WITH, the screenplay offers the telling of the story in
flashback. The occurrences of what is nearly a life's worth of really
unusual happenings and very unlikely coincidences, all seem to have
been mixed into an emulsion of what can only be described as some of
the most important moments in American and, indeed, World History.WHILE FULLY REALIZING that a Film, no matter how good it may be, is
still just a movie, escapist entertainment. It is a powerful form of
fictional day dreaming; but still it's make believe, nonetheless.WE ARE REQUIRED to be entertained by the incessant recitation of the
narrative of all of these events that have led up to Forrest Gumps
reunion with his life long friend and one true Love, Jennie. The long,
deliberate cadence of Gump's delivery of this dialog is found to be
very amusing, even to the most sour pussed stoic in the audience.SORRY FOR HAVING to throw cold water on our ongoing involvement in this
mirth-fest but we really out to pause and give some serious and sober
analysis to this, our cause of amusement.WHEN ASKED IN AN interview* about how and why LI'L ABNER creator, Al
Capp, chose to build his comic strip around Hillbilly characte5rs in a
most rural setting of Dogpatch, USA; his answer was delivered, quickly
and in a most straight manner. Al stated that the use of Hillbilly
characters was a nearly sure fire prescription for success. His
reasoning being that the introduction of Hillbilly characters makes the
job of succeeding in creating the desired yuk-yuks easier because
everyone feels that they are superior to these American Rustics.WE MUST ALSO consider the characterization of Forrest as being not just
uncouth or ill mannered; but rather that he is truly slow or mentally
deficient. He most certainly must suffer from some acute degree of
mental retardation. Is this what the pseudo intellectuals in the Elite
of Tinsel Town believe to be the polite and proper cause for merriment
and mirth? WE ALSO DETECT at least a smattering of snobbishness and
sanctimony. This is amplified by an unabashed utilization of
patronizing preachiness, which would seam to reassure the production
team's moral and intellectual superiority; at least to their way of
thinking, we suppose.NOTE: * This interview was done 1n the 1960's and published in a
certain quasi-intellectual Men's Magazine; which also did a good
business in peddling the exposition of feminine pulchritude and skin.
Of course, Schultz and I only bought it for the articles. Honest!

******
30 January 2011
8
About the film: Genre of this film is drama which also includes
romance. The film is based on a novel by William Groom and produced by
Paramount Communications Company. It is directed by Robert Zemeckis.
Its executive music producer is Joel Sill. It was released in the US in
1994 and received many awards such as Academy Award, Golden Globe
Award, and People's Choice Award. The major characters are: Tom Hanks
(Forrest Gump) , Robin Wright( Jenny) , Sally Field( F's mother), Gary
Sinise (Lieutenant Dan), and Mykelti William( Bubba(. The story is
during the period of Presidency of Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Ford and
Carter. Some part of film happens in Vietnam. The film shows that many
people did not agree with Vietnam War. It also shows "Racism" in the
US. For instance, black students were permitted to enroll in college of
Alabama just during the summer. During the Vietnam War, the "Black
Panthers" were shaped against the War and against racism and unequal
opportunities for blacks. The protagonist is a low IQ boy who does
great works but not according to specific reasoning and goal. His
mother named him "Forrest" after the Great Civil War's hero; General
Nathan Bedford Forrest. She believed "Forrest" reminds him that all
people sometimes do things that do make no sense. His actions are
really in harmony with his name, for instance, he is a great runner,
but as he says in the film, he runs without any reason. When he learns
to play Ping-Pong, he plays without thinking. Once in the film, he
repeats one of his mother's sentences; "miracles happen every day". We
can see that his success in any area is somehow a miracle. The feather
which is shown at the beginning and end of the film is a means to show
the passing of time to a destiny; a destiny in which F's mother
believes. Lieutenant Dan loses his belief in God and in destiny
especially after his losing his legs in the war. F.G doubts whether we
are destined to do some things-as his mother told- or "are floating
around accidental-like a breeze"- as lieutenant Dan believed- or both. Plot The story is about a man named Forrest Gump. It involves two
phases; in first phase, F.G speaks about his past life and takes us to
different places related to his past experiences. But the events
happening for him in second phase are not narrated by him as past
memories but are taking place at the same time of being shown. Most of
the story takes place in first phase. F.G is sitting on a bench and
waiting for a bus in Savannah. He has a small suitcase in which he
carries all the important things he has. During the first phase, he
talks about his life to strangers who sit on that bench for a short
while and wait for buses. Now, his life story: F.G and his mother live
in Alabama. He was a boy with low IQ, but his mother sent him to
school. When he grew up, he got a football scholarship in college
because he could run very fast. The college put him in the All-America
Team. After five years of playing football, he got a college degree.
After his graduation, he applied at Army. In the Army he made
friendship with a person named Bubba who was crazy about shrimping and
suggested him to buy a shrimping boat after coming back home. The Army
sent them to Vietnam. His officer was Lieutenant Dan. In the war, F.G
and Lieutenant Dan were shot and Bubba was killed. In the field of war,
he helped other soldiers very much. He ran very fast and rescued
injured soldiers from the field. So, he was awarded the Medal of Honor
by President Johnson. Because he was shot, he was sent to hospital.
There, he learned Ping-Pong from another soldier. He could play it as
well as running. So, the Army wanted him to play Ping-Pong as the
Special Service instead of returning to Vietnam. After some years, the
Army decided he should be on the All-American Ping-Pong team. The Army
sent the team to China. He and the team were the first Americans who
visited China after many long years. After coming back to America, he
became a national celebrity and was given the Congressional Medal of
Honor. With Ping-Pong team, he met President Nixon. After Nixon's
resignation, the Army discharged him and his service was up. After his
being discharged, he bought a shrimping boat and worked on it by
Lieutenant Dan. They made a lot of money in a few years and became the
leaders of Bubba-Gump shrimping corporation. Lieutenant Dan's belief in
God strengthened after being by F.G and seeing miracle-like situations
like hurricane Carmen which led to their progress in shrimping. In
second phase, we see the events at the same time as they happen. He
marries his girlfriend "Jenny". Jenny dies because of illness. He takes
care of his son whose name was "Forrest" too. His son was a smart boy.
At the end of the film, the scenes are repeated with a difference: the
roles of F.G and his mother are replaced by F.G and his son.

******
26 January 2011
8
Taken by itself, this is a wonderful movie with a compelling plot,
wonderful characters played by talented actors and a balls-out
performance by Gary Sinise, who in my opinion deserved the Oscar more
than Tom Hanks. It is really an emotional roller-coaster of a movie
that people of all ages can enjoy.However, I'm rather conflicted about the sneaky the way the movie turns
the truth inside out in pursuit of its aims. In the world of 'Forrest
Gump', the Vietnam War was a just endeavor and its protesters were all
drugged out, cowardly, sleazy hippies who turn innocent American farm
girls into dope-dependent sluts. The social fervor of the sixties is
presented as an irrational mania, and conservative norms are
uncritically celebrated. The way this movie has been embraced by the
hard-core right wing really creeps me out.Still, this is one movie where the 'Willing Suspension of Disbelief'
can reap big dividends.

******
8 January 2011
10
America as the country which is always on the "move", the land of
freedom, growth; these are the core ideas for many Hollywood movies.
The movie Forrest Gump can be considered as one of these movies.it has
got some elements of American identity. The story of a man who is
intellectually and mentally under grown and underdeveloped but he
appears to be appropriate and rightful in the works in his world. He
becomes an icon and hits the press all over the country. His dreams
turn to reality and this shows that your imaginings will come true if
you try hard enough and at the same time if you are well equipped to
freshness and honesty. Surprisingly, he visits three presidents,
Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon. He receives honors and makes
accomplishments in table tennis, shrimp industry, Vietnam War. A
"simple" man from Alabama who travels around the world "runs" across
America and meets political, cultural figures like Mao and John Lenon
as well. The amazing point that makes the main character of the film,
Forrest Gump, lovable and believable is that he keeps his childhood
innocence into maturity probably because he is not very smart; his IQ
is 75 below the normal point which is 80. On the other hand he remains
as a child in mind and soul even though he is physically grown. This
can be drawn in the picture which he shows his wounded buttock to the
President Johnson in the White House while he is receiving his Medal of
Honor. This is the indication for his simplicity. He firmly believes in
three things God, his mother and his lifelong love, Jenny, which
remembers her all the time. Although the movie keeps eye on Gump's life
career but mainly it is depicting different periods of American
history. For example, it shows scenes from racial discrimination,
Vietnam War, Kennedy Assassination, Watergate scandal and so on. In
some cases it's hard to distinguish clearly what the genre the movie
is, whether it is drama, romance or a satire. It can be argued that the
director skillfully amalgamated comedy, drama and documentary into each
other. Technically speaking, the movie is a flashback and a narrative
mode in which the movie starts from showing the viewers that Gump is
sitting on a bench waiting for a bus. At the same time, he tells the
story of his life to different people waiting for the shuttle bus. His
story is the tale of the nation and the country and even generally the
world as well. Visually impressive, the makers could successfully have
put Gump in scenes with the US presidents. Even they could have made it
possible to hear from Kennedy in Footballers' visit at the White House.
Due to this technicality and specialty it won the Academy Award for the
Best Visual Effects in 1994. The movie is ranked as the 71st of the
best motion picture of the all time by (AFI) American Film Institute.
Gump's capability to be in the right place at the right time makes him
exceptional, too. He saves the lives of the American troops in Vietnam
War while he was looking for his intimate friend Buba. Once He ran like
a wind into the football field and he made part of his life career as a
footballer star by being too fast in the matches. He is the one who
calls the police and apprises them the weird condition in the hotel
which was the lead to disclose the Watergate scandal that led to the
resignation of Nixon. His simplicity and honesty is playing a key role
in all these situations. Despite being not "normal" as the doctor and
headmaster tell to Gump' mother in the beginning but he makes a very
successful life career which makes him well known and much more
generous and giving .The lessons that Gump are given by his mother are
very simple but very helpful. One of them is faith and believes in
destiny. To do your best but at the same time to keep your faith and be
faithful on what destiny brings about to you, to accept it and "live"
with your "life". The main message of the movie can be "when there is a
will, there is a way." And as the British people put forward "Honesty
is the best policy." These two are as the secret to happiness which
Gump finds it in his life. Other than that his life is inspiring for
many such as Lt. Dan Taylor and even Jenny who accuses Gump that "you
don't know what love is" but finally backs and returns to the "kind but
slow-witted" man to make her own life much more "meaningful" and
cheerful. She even gave birth to a child and named him "Forrest Gump";
a new generation but with the old and respected values and beliefs.
Forrest Gump's tale and world is ours, too; with too many ebbs and
flows; with sorrows and joys; with defeats and victories. But the tool
and rule to overcome the difficulties is simple; to be honest and
hopeful. He is exceptional mentally but not morally. His morals help
him to make the "Forrest Gump" an icon in the movie and in the real
world as well.

******
17 December 2010
9
For me the film is a promoter of American culture and values and I want
to look at the film from this point of view. It is the promoter of the
American values using both conservative and liberal values, but the
conservative values are more dominant and highlighted and liberal
values are loosely used to promote just the American culture and at the
end liberal values are defeated by conservative values although both
ideologies are used to promote the American culture. The film also uses
the American icon and figure to promote the American culture.Family is and home are very important in film, Forrest mother is a
devoted mother who does her best to keep the family and nurture her
child although Forrest father is not present and may leave the family
but the mother asserts that that he is on vacation so she wants to that
they are a family. "there is no place like home" and "family forever"
these themes can be seen in the film when Forrest, Jenny and their
child return their home, Greenbow, Alabama, as a family. Gump is the
man family, he is loyal to his love and does his best to have his own
family. Gump is a hard working guy who works and tries hard to achieve
happiness he expects nothing without hard-working. From the beginning
Gump is running and he even runs across the US, symbolically "chasing
the American Dream". Gump also is religious person, after returning
home from China he says that people in China do not go to the church or
he goes to the church to pray in order to have a big shrimping. Forrest
also uses liberal gestures, like participating in anti-Vietnam War
rally and taking part in a TV show to talk about his experience in
China, telling that Chinese people are deprived from freedom and basic
human rights. Gump is the symbol of conservative values and Jenny is
the symbol of liberal values but at the end Jenny is dead but Gump as
the symbol of the conservatives is the source of maintenance and
continuity of the American culture.Totally the film was made to appeal to conservatives and invalidate
liberals but to promote the American culture even by utilizing liberal
values. It also is a condemnation of the counterculture movement of the
1960s and its aftermaths. Jennifer Hyland Wang, movie critic, argued
that Curran's death to an unnamed virus "...symbolizes the death of
liberal America and the death of the protests that defined a decade
[1960s]." Even the main structure of the film crew connote the
conservative orientation of the film. Steve Tisch, one of the producers
of the film is a conservative person who has produced other
conservative film after Forrest Gump like Knowing and The Pursuit of
Happiness that the later one alongside Forrest Gump are among the best
25 conservative movies by the National Review magazine.

******
24 November 2010
9
Forrest Gump is perhaps one of the greatest films of all time if not
the very best. I feel like Forrest Gump almost all of the time.Forrest Gump is a film that everyone must see before they die. It is so
touching. It just has an excellent mix of sadness, happiness, comedy,
and just about everything I could ask for in a film. Some people do not
even realize how great this film is. It is generally liked by the
people and critics but it still does not have the credit that it
deserves.Tom Hanks played the role of Forrest Gump perfectly. I could not see
anyone else in the role. Speaking of acting, every actor and actress
delivered amazing performances. All of the acting was great."Forrest Gump" will always be a favorite of mine and I recommend it to
anyone who has not seen it.

******
12 July 2010
10
Tom Hanks stars in his Oscar winning role in the best picture winning
instant classic, Forrest Gump. When making Forrest Gump, it seems like
director Robert Zemeckis' only goal is for this film to be a classic.
And it truly is.Forrest Gump is the story of a guy named Forrest(obviously played
brilliantly by Tom Hanks), a guy who has an I.Q. of 75. Forrest,
throughout the entire film, is telling his life story. And his
experiences. From his love for Jenny(played by Robin Wright Penn), who
eventually becomes a hippie slut, to his days in the war, from his
encounter with Elvis, and it goes on.Tom Hanks' performance is so delightfully sweet. and so is the movie.
Forrest Gump is delightfully funny, blissfully sad, and downright sweet
and a ton of fun. My momma doesn't like this movie. I don't know why. I
may never understand it.When I think about it, I don't think it deserved best movie of the year
over Pulp fiction and The Shawshank Redemption. But sometimes I do
think that it did. Forrest is such a lovable character. And he has such
an exiting life.The ending is sad, the film is a little sentimental, but it's not a
problem, the acting is terrific. Especially from Tom Hanks and Gary
Senise as the lovable Lieutenant Dan. Forrest Gump is a delightful
film. One of the best pictures of 94. Not positive if it's the best,
but it makes the top three no doubt.Forrest Gump: A+

******
26 June 2010
9
For the longest time this was my favorite film. Even though it isn't
anymore it's definitely in the top 5. I've seen this film so many
times, I could recite the whole thing. This film made Robert Zemeckis
one of my favorite directors, and Tom Hanks was all ready one of my
favorite actors, so this really helped.Tom Hanks is so charming as the simple minded Forrest Gump, who,
growing up in the 60's, 70's and 80's, inadvertently becomes involved
with the key moments of the 20th century, including Vietnam, Watergate,
winning a Medal of Honor, meeting multiple celebrities, etc. He goes
through life simply doing what his mamma, (Sally Field) and his best
friend Jenny, (Robin Wright) tell him.This film has some of the best quotes of all time, the main one being
"Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna
get". This film has so much going on. It's so inspirational, teaching
you so many lessons on life.Robert Zemeckis cleverly plays around with history, adding Forrest into
key moments through great visuals and photoshopping, or just plain
playacting. The visuals are really great if you know what you're
looking at. The music score by Alan Silverstri will get you crying more
than once. The soundtrack ranges from the 50's to the 80's, milking the
biggest artists of those years as the decades flow through.Possibly Tom Hank's best performance as Forrest. He can be funny, but
he can also be strong willed and confident. Robin Wright is a great
supporting character, being Forrest's main push in the movie to keep
going. Sally Field as Forrest's mamma is also really supporting,
raising him on his own at birth and supporting his decisions. More
characters are introduced throughout, like Bubba, Forrest's friend in
Vietnam, and Lieutenant Dan, (Gary Sinise) Forrest's Lieutenant in the
war.There's so much in this film, it's such a long but fun journey. I
highly recommend this if you're looking for a really good inspirational
feel good movie.

******
20 June 2010
9
Touching, Sad, Romantic, Happy, Wars, Friends, Marriage, Family, and
most of all love. Forrest Gump. Made me cry. Made me feel good. Forrest
Gump is a loving person. He got friends. He joined a war. He is good at
running, Has a girlfriend named Jenny. They marry and they have a son.
Jenny says goodbye. "Life is like a box of chocolates. You Never know
what you're going to get." There is a lot of people. But there is only
one Forrest gump. He is helpful and a good friend. He taught himself
how to run. He was friends with Jenny since he was a kid. This film
delivers. Watch it now and you will be proud. Tom Hanks best movie. Go
watch it.

******
20 June 2010
10
Do not buy this on Blu-ray, the conversion or whatever is really ,
really , bad.Paramount has put this movie out as a blu-ray, but I'm pretty sure it's
only upscaled DVD, with 540i or more likely 540p :-( this is one of my
top movies of all time as the titles says, but i was expecting the full
1080i which my 47" Philips supports (thank you Lord Jesus).stoopid is as stoopid does, cmon Paramount, you make one of the best
movies ever and hit us with this rubbish??? Forrest was simple but
never acted stupid, so why you?peaceDavaParamount you owe me a tenner, 'cos i could of got FG at a lower price,
so invest that tenner in proper 1080i please. 10 out of 10 for the
movie! 1 out of 10 for the upscaled video fudge as blu-ray!

******
6 June 2010
8
Forrest Gump tells the story of, well Forrest Gump. The man was born
with some disabilities, but he has overcome them and somehow seems to
be present at a lot of historical moments. He's in love with his
childhood friend Jenny, who constantly eludes him. The film that beat my favourite film of all time at the Oscars. I'm not
hating it, I think that both films deserved the title. Forrest Gump is
something else. It seems to have been one of those, right place at the
right time flicks. Everything about it simply works, it's heartwarming,
funny, intelligent and depressing. Tom Hanks gave us an unforgettable performance that goes down in
history as one of the greatest. He is lost in this character and Gump
takes a life of it's own. Probably one of the most lovable characters
in the history of cinema. Jenny, the woman of his affections is played
by Robin Wright Penn, her performance is almost saddening. Her life is
constantly spiraling out of control and you can do nothing to stop it.
Gary Sinise is hilarious as Lt. Dan, the hard ass in the army who loses
his legs. We love to hate it at the beginning, then we come around,
much like his character. Speaking of losing legs, despite the film not needing a heavy load of
CGI, it uses it beautifully. Inserting Gump into old footage and giving
Sinise the lack of legs among other things. These are small things
compared to what people are doing today, but Zemeckis has always been
one to push technology in films, here he does it very well and never
does it encompass the film. The story is forefront, something that he
needs to get back into.Forrest Gump is an everyman film. Meaning the almost everyone will like
it. Some political messages may turn people the other way, but the
overall feel of the film is something that a lot of people share. Every
once in a while there is one film that touches a lot of people, I think
Forrest Gump is one of those films. Even though the film goes off in
many different directions, it works. Forrest in the army in one
segment, then running around the country in another? I love it.

******
3 March 2010
10
What an amazing movie! This is how movies should be made. I saw this 3
times now and a few minutes ago, and I said to myself that I had to
comment on this one, and as a matter of fact I rarely come here to
comment as this is my 5th comment. With every view of this movie it
always gets betterI find this movie very beautiful, thoughtful, funny and in the end all
that matters is how much it touches you. Well this movie had done all
that. I'll have to say that Tom Hanks deliveres one of the best acting
performances ever and as that said my favorite. So the movie let's you
know in the beginning that Forrest is a little slow as his momma said,
but as we discover he can do some amazing things no matter of his
problems. No matter where he was he was always thinking about the ones
who loved, even for someone he knew for a little while, he always saw
the good parts of people. In the end we learn that he is not the ill or
the problematic one but that everyone around him were that. He was
always enjoying the little things, a thing that we all don't do very
often. The thing that touched me a lot and thought that was just
amazing about Forrest is that he helped everybody in a way even that he
didn't knew. Everybody found happiness in the end and I like to think
that Forrest's being push them.I give this one none less then a perfect
10 and I think that everybody should see this at least once to see how
beautiful things are through Forrest Gump's eyes"That's all I have to say about that"

******
8 December 2005
4
Saw this in the IMDb 250, and couldn't believe it was ranked this high.
Quite frankly, very sappy film about a mentally challenged individual
and how he influences key events through his life. I liked it when it
first came out, but every time I see it on TV, I realize that this is a
terrible movie. Essentially, it's a baby-boomer's movie reminiscing
about the events of times past. And the more I see it, it reminds me of
an earlier, even craftier movie with a simple-minded character which
was far more intelligent than this film will ever be..."Being There"
with Peter Sellers. Essentially the same story, but Sellers pulls of
the role more convincingly and the story unfolds much better. Forget
this film--"Being There" is the film to watch.

******
30 September 2005
10
In fact, most people in the world who are more mentally capable as
Forrest will not be able to do half of what he did. He never made dumb
mistakes like getting addicted to crack or dropping out of college. He
never did anything wrong, he did the right thing because that is all
that he knew.Forrest became a shrimp boat captain, a war hero, a gardener, a
football star and a college graduate. Pretty impressive for a man that
everybody called "stupid".People say that the movie has no plot, no line to follow, but there is.
It's Forrest, Forrest Gump. He is the backbone, he is the life line of
this movie. What you see through Forrest's eyes are both sad and happy.
But to him, it's all a part of life and it's just how you live. He ran
across the country many times for what? He just felt like running. Once
in awhile, we all feel like running. But we don't run, because we think
that it's just a stupid thing to do. Forrest runs and he becomes a
national celebrity.I enjoyed this movie very much, this is my second favorite movie and
that means that I can watch it whenever and never be tired of it. It's
hard to be tired of someone's life, because that means it doesn't
matter anymore. What Forrest Gump did mattered, he fulfilled his
destiny. Now it is the question of whether we fulfilled ours.

******
5 September 2005
10
This is probably the best movie there is! ten points is not enough. I
would give it 100 if I could. If you haven't seen this one, you should
go out and rent it as fast as you can. Tom Hanks have never been
better, and the rest of the cast I have no complaints to make. I
haven't seen them so much before, but as far as I can see they should
all have won an Oscar for best performance! If it could be possible, my
biggest wish right now is that there could be a second movie coming out
soon. Then we would see how it has gone for Forest and his friend
Lt.Dan. If they have made more money or if they have lost it all. (Not
that I believe they would have lost it, with the luck that Forest has).
As i final comment, I have to say that this movie has given me so much
joy through the years. Whenever i'm sad I look at it and it just cheers
me up.

******
31 May 2005
5
This is a truly patriotic movie, and guess what: not even half of
America probably likes it. It's got a dunce as the protagonist, who,
for sentimentality reasons talks slowly, he's got your typical,
advice-giving all-American mother, references to the Vietnam war and
America's greatness and, of course, an all to frequently appearing love
story.Yep, that's Forrest Gump.Coincidentilly appearing in many historical times, never funny (maybe
save the 'Watergate' incident) these soon tire. It's simply done too
many times, and each occurrence is as crap as the last. Many people
have stated this an 'entertaing, heartwarming tale'. Are you watching
the same film, with references to paedophilia, incest, war violence,
death, cancer and drug addiction, all through the eyes of a disabled
person. Heartwarming? Well, no. This film may have been entertaining were it not so sad. It's
got many occasions where you could watch happily. But everything bad in
the film you've seen at the times it could be entertaining stick with
you. The incest, the paedophilia, the drug use, the attempted suicide.
It sticks with you.Bad things happen to often in this film, and it's justified by Gump's
idiotic nature.I'll give it a ** out of **** for few moments of entertainment and
savour.

******
2 May 2004
10

I'll not get involved into a deep analysis of this motion picture. Other
people can give a better view.
I'll just say that no movie character inspires me more than Forrest, who
with his intelligence as excuse lives like we all wish we could. He is a
completely free human being, in the matter he doesn't have any biases or
stiff beliefs.
-
-
I think everyone can learn a lot from this uncomplicated man, who does
what
he believes is right, without turning away from his goal, no matter if it
happens' to involve running across America for three years...

******
20 February 2002
10

The head line covers most things up, doesn't it?
Tom Hanks which is one of my favourite actors does a perfect
job!
The dialogs is great, the scene play..
and I expecially like the way you get to follow him all through life, in a
movie which only gets better and better every time I look at
it..

******
9 October 2015
10
Quite simply, the greatest film ever made.Humour, sadness, action, drama and a Vietnam film all rolled into one.I'm not a stone cold, heartless villain, but it takes a lot to make me
cry when I watch a movie. Bambi's mother, I couldn't care less. Jimmy
Stewart in, "Oh, what a wonderful life," - yeah right! The Lion King,
when Mufasa bites the big one - on the verge.But seriously - I bawled my big brown eyes out, on several occasions in
this film. A real tear-jerker, and a wonderful character, played to
perfection by Tom Hanks. Every bit as worthy for the Oscar as Rooney
was to win the Premiership in 2007.I cannot say it enough: This is THE film of all time. Watch it, and
you'll see.

******
10 January 2014
10
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
The movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the
eyes of a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they
are. Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough. He's a thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who
manages between the 1950s and the 1980s to become involved in every
major event in American history. And he survives them all with only
honesty and niceness as his shields.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role. I can't
think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him into a
person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a
breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich
in big laughs and quiet truths.What a magical movie.

******
19 December 2013
10
This is the first review I've written in my whole life. Motivation?
First of all - this is a superior movie, secondly - some bad reviews
I've read about it. Also if there's something to take from this movie,
then it's good by default. And Forrest Gump has prepared quite a lot
for you.I love it because it shows the so much of human nature like love,
trust, persistence, loyalty and so on. But most important, it teaches
to do the right thing. Once you learn to do the right thing, good
things start happening to you. What few movies have is the effect of
"once the movie starts, you start living it". This movie sucks you in
and if you're a human being it leaves traces in your soul. Few movies
can do that. To oppose some of the reviewers. If you have rated this movie low, let
me tell you something. You most probably haven't got the message of it.
It's not a documentary you know. There's more to it and if you will
eventually get the message, then it might help you in quite a ways. My
advice to you - don't be too proud.I would really recommend Forrest Gump movie to everyone. If you've seen
it - watch it again. Positive emotions guaranteed. Cheers!

******
13 September 2013
10
Forrest Gump is one of the Greatest Movies of All Time. Within this
movie was a substantial amount of Life Lessons. I use to watch FG
everyday after I watched Pokemon and I absolutely love this movie. I
was able to identify with Forrest because as a child I was picked on
because I was bowlegged and because I had a mole in the middle of my
eyes. He was the perfect example of showing children who feel they are
different from others that they can do anything that they put their
mind too. Like many of us Forrest experience life and loving a girl
that was too afraid to love him back in fear of hurting him and because
of what others would say. It showed in the movie that making decisions
based on what others think will make you miss out on a great thing just
as Jenny did. Not only was Forrest handsome, but he was afforded so
many talents that made him very successful rather it educational
excellence or not. He was a Success, I feel that FG should be used in
Freshman Orientation of 9th grade children because I feel this movie
will help a lot of beginning 9th graders with decision making
throughout high school

******
13 September 2013
9
when I 1st seen this film it inspired me in a lot of different ways of
how he was treated growing up from others and what he went through in
life to get where he is now. he also help a lot of people on his way
because he never wanted to see people like bub gums family be in such
bad shape and he took care of his family and that shows there is still
great people out there in this world from off the movie. the he tried
to help captain Dan out when he visited him in his apartment. puts Dan
on the ship Jennie and made him his captain. as for Jennie she was
hanging around the black panther party and her boy friend that was not
for war. she had wasted almost all of her life partying and doing drugs
with the wrong people I think.

******
11 September 2013
10
clearly been very very good movie Forrest Gump. housed a very good
drama and romance issues that should be followed good movie. explained
very well how to implement positive is checked. Despite being made in
1994, viewed at the same quality every year. Forrest Gump, 1994 US-made
epic romantic comedy-drama film. Written by Winston Groom movies
adapted from the novel of the same name in 1986. film, Tom Hanks, Sally
Field, Gary Sinise playing scenario-Eric Roht, Academy Award for Best
Film was directed by Robert Zemeckis doing. Forrest: "Yes. Well, I do
not know. Sometimes rain will permit the stars stood up. He was always
nice. Desert looked like just before sunset. Phosphorescence in the
water would be millions. Just like that mountain lake. Too was clear,
Jenny, as if the sky had two consecutive looked like. then in the
desert, when the sun was born, where the sky ends of the earth would
not know where it begins. Very nice. " Jenny: "I wish I could be there
with you." Forrest: "You were." Jenny: "I love you."

******
9 September 2013
8
One of my favourite Maugham stories, one that's little known because
it's so short, is 'Salvatore'. It ends with the following unforgettable
words:"I started by saying that I wondered if I could do it and now I must
tell you what it is that I have tried to do. I wanted to see whether I
could hold your attention for a few pages while I drew for you the
portrait of a man, just an ordinary fisherman who possessed nothing in
the world except a quality which is the rarest, the most precious and
the loveliest that anyone can have. Heaven only knows why he should so
strangely and unexpectedly have possessed it. All I know is that it
shone in him with a radiance that, if it had not been unconscious and
so humble, would have been to the common run of men hardly bearable.
And in case you have not guessed what the quality was, I will tell you.
Goodness, just goodness." Substitute the "few pages" for "a little over two hours", and there's
'Forrest Gump' for you, in a nutshell.Goodness, unalloyed and uncontaminated, is always very difficult to
portray on screen, and it's even more difficult to make a tale of pure
goodness riveting viewing. Grey is always so much more interesting than
white. Yet, there are the rare examples of cinematic excellence where
the story is just about goodness, and the wonderful places it can take
you. Told with panache, and essayed with sincerity, goodness still
retains its power to hold. 'Yankee Doodle Dandy', with James Cagney's
unforgettable performance as George M Cohan, is one such example.
'Forrest Gump', with Tom Hanks literally living the role, is another.The story is epic in scope. It spans more than half of Gump's life, and
portrays how greatness has nothing to do with IQ. There is such a lot
to learn, about human nature, from the film, that it can hardly be told
within the limited scope of a review. Gump lives his life on the
surface, and yet the film is introspective, of life, in the extreme. It
breaks the wall of entertainment and takes us to a place where
celluloid becomes Art.I'm saying nothing further about the story. And yet, I cannot but omit
to mention the scene, near the end of the film, when Gump meets Jenny,
luminously portrayed by Robin Wright, and her son. The chiaroscuro of
expressions which cross Gump's face in that scene can serve as a
textbook example for all who want to know what Acting is all about. The
film is worth repeated viewings even for that one single shot.And yet, wonder of wonders, there are those who have panned 'Forrest
Gump'. Well, it takes all types to make a world.

******
20 August 2013
9
One of the most inspiring movie of all time.If you find yourself vulnerable or sad, this movie shows how to deal
with it, although don't try to run across USA, unless you felt like it,
:))Good behaviors can get you far, they might mistake you as stupid but
sometimes stupid acts gives us some wisdom to learn and be tough to
overcome our obstacles,'Stupid as stupid does'.Forrest is a very resilient, good friend, and always looks to the
bright side of life. He has more character than a normal person as we
speak.His loves for his Mama cannot be compared. And he takes in, all the
wisdom she taught to him very seriously, even we find it
silly/irrelevant at times.

******
10 July 2013
10
I don't know how to describe how a perfect movie is. But Forrest Gump
sure can. It gives you all the feelings a film can. It delivers
everything you ever wanted from a film. The perfect heroine, the
perfect main character, the perfect ending, the perfect punch line. And
Forrest Gump himself is a character drawn as to be a man with the most
integration you will ever meet. Inspiring. If I could shed a tear, I
would happily give it to this film.As you know the film is about the life of Forrest Gump. He starts his
story as a story teller (telling his own life) to random people at a
bench in somewhere we are yet to know. The film doesn't waste it's time
in his past as I would fear to make me bored. Quickly we go through the
many live story a man can get. Entertaining as well as thrilling (in a
way). As we go through all that, the set goes through the present time
of Forrest Gump where it becomes so touchy, you wouldn't expect so. A brilliant performance from Tom Hanks. Too a great performance from
the actor of Lieutenant Dan (Gary Sinise), as I have not seen him in
many, but all favorites, but this tops them all. Sinise gains my
respect.Easily comes to the top of my favorite movie of all time. Brilliant.
10/10

******
15 June 2013
10
I'm a 30 year old guy and this movie makes me cry every time I watch
it. What a fascinating portrayal of friendship, curiosity and love.I first remember seeing this when it came out as a child in the cinema,
and when Jenny died I shed a tear. Over time, this film has just become
better and better and its meanings more profound, to the point where I
find myself in tears through almost the entire thing. It's a really
beautiful movie.Tom Hanks is perfect, Robin Wright is beautiful, the music by Silvestri
is the most chilling beauty he's ever written and everything comes
together for this movie like it was just meant to be.I am satisfied, completely, and ten times over. I like Shawshank but
because love rather than redemption is something I can relate to more
I'd have to say this is my number #1 movie. Just the greatest. I'm
really glad I saw this in the cinema when it first came out and can't
believe it has touched me so much from my first viewing to my last.One of, if not the most sentimental films I have ever watched.

******
13 June 2013
10
I'll keep this short and simple.Forrest is a simple man that doesn't ask much out of life and ends up
living what some would call the luckiest life in the history of cinema.
Except it isn't.Dig a little deeper and you'll find some very simple yet profound
truths. The most important thing in life are the relationships we have
with others, not the things that we accomplish or obtain. And Forrest
loses almost everyone that is important to him throughout the course of
the movie. He's a simple man, but he knows what love is.On the other side is Jenny, who's entire story is summed up when
Forrest says the deceptively profound "sometimes I guess there just
aren't enough rocks." For her scars, there weren't.Watch it again. Dig a little deeper. Then you'll come to understand why
this is considered a timeless classic.

******
18 May 2013
10
Forrest Gump was released in a year that included some of the greatest
films of all time. The two that standout being Pulp Fiction directed by
Quentin Tarantino and Shawshank Redemption directed by Frank Darabont,
and this film is on par and arguably better than both of those films.
The seamless flow of major historic events seen through Forrest Gumps
eyes is achieved through great directing and a great script with some
of the most quotable lines of all time. The characters and
relationships in this film represent the greatest aspect of America and
her history and that is the ability to love one another and the ability
to recover and remember. Robert Zemeckis creates this masterpiece
through visionary flow a great ensemble cast that include Tom Hanks in
his greatest performance as Forrest, and the perfectly cast Gary Sinise
as the good hearted, misunderstood Lieutenant Dan. These actors along
with others that include Sally Field and Robin Wright form a film that
will stand the test of time as one of the greatest films of its
generation and generations to come.

******
12 May 2013
10
"Forrest Gump" is a classic masterpiece that showed the world the actor
that Tom Hanks is, simply PERFECT in every detail. And the director
Robert Zemeckis is fabulous. In technical aspects the film is very
good, but the story is the one who shines.Here we have the fabulous "fictional biography" of the unforgettable
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) a very smart autist. We follow his story since
his adolescence to adulthood, having the chance to be part of various
historical moments in American history, giving him the chance to meet
Elvis, JFK, LBJ, Nixon, John Lennon. The movie always following closely
the life of Forrest in a fantastic and inspiring way.The visual direction of Zemeckis works perfectly in this film, from the
first scene where we follow closely a feather afloat until the moment
when Forrest meets JFK closely.The writing of Eric Roth (screenplay) upon the story is superb, giving
us truly emotional moments but also very funny moments. Leaving the
movie extremely entertaining and exciting from the very beginning to
the feather flying in the last scene.The performances are fantastic. Tom Hanks, no comments, PERFECT in
every detail with a performance so innocent and dear; Gary Sinise as
Lieutenant Dan, the suffered and hilarious soldier with a superb
performance since his first scene; Sally Field as Forrest's mother,
despite not appearing much she has its many moments where her
performance shines.A film that is to be watched over and over again. With a heartwarming
story, really well written, directed and performance. A story that will
make you cry, laugh, have fun and involve lot about the life of this
fantastic character. Run to watch now, RUN PEOPLE... RUN!!

******
27 April 2013
10
Forrest Gump is a film that is hard to describe. It gives the viewer so
much more than a standard drama/romance film. It would call it a 'life'
film; one that takes the emotions that everybody feels and serves them
on a plate at a 5 star restaurant. Tom Hanks plays the title character
in one of the most iconic acting performances of all time. Forrest is,
in fact, my favorite film character of all time - and that's saying
something. Unlike, some films with great acting roles, the film is not
carried alone by Tom Hanks. A whole range of great actors (young and
old) are in this breath-taking film. The music in this film is simply
stunning; it is filled with child-like lullaby themes to symbolize the
childish attitude that Forrest has to life. This is mixed with grand,
epic pieces as we see Forrest mature infront of our eyes. The music is
some of my favorite in all of cinema and brings a tear to my eye when I
hear it. Robert Zemeckis is known for using hi-tech effects to give a
unique feel to his films. Forrest Gump uses this technology in an
amazing way; bringing Tom Hanks and us into historical events. The
cinematography in this film is superb; the iconic feather scene at the
start giving us a glimpse of what is to come. But the script is what
makes me adore this film so very much; it is so quotable, so witty, so
simple, so effective. It is genius!There aren't enough words on earth to describe this film's
magnificence, so I will just end by saying that Forrest Gump is most
definitely in my top 5 favorite films of all time and will always
remain in my heart.I'm not a smart man, but I know what a good film is.

******
21 February 2013
10
This touching tail of a man with a heart bigger than his brain is
amazing. The movie covers almost every genre imaginable: drama, comedy,
romance, action, adventure, history... It has something to appeal to
any person. This is one movie that you can watch over and over again.
each time i watch it i pick up on something i never realized was there.
The acting is superb with everyone playing there part perfectly (my
favorite is Michael Conner Humphries as Forrest Gump when he was a
kid), the filmography is astounding, the story is ground breaking (I
find it interesting how they incorporate history into his life story),
you will laugh, you will cry, you will remember Forrest Gump.

******
28 June 2011
10
I know a lot of people may disagree but i find this to be the best
movie ever made. The script, the direction and most of all Tom Hanks
stunning performance made this movie perfect for me.This movie is about a slightly mentally challenged man (Hanks) who
finds himself parts of very memorable parts of history. He tries to do
his best and thats exactly what happens. As the story goes on he finds
himself doing amazing things throughout the world.This is an amazing movie. Its touching, its breathtaking, its filled
with action sequences, its exciting, i could go on forever because this
ovie literally has everything you could want and more. There is a
reason this movie won 6 Oscars in won award because it is hands down
the best movie ever made. This movie is for everyone no matter who you
are this movie is for you. 10/10

******
22 June 2011
10
Well to describe how I personally see this movie is hard, cause so many
aspects of it really are hard to describe in words... It's really
something special to watch this guy who everyone said was a man with no
real future go trough life in a way we could never expect, with such a
simple way to see things while people around him seem to have a hard
time simply living... That's where the paradox of Jenny comes into
mind, where she seems to always want to find herself in a messed up
world, she always comes back to the only man who never saw her for
anything else than his best friend and the woman he loves... That is to
me the essence of this movie, the power of Forrest Gump is that
attraction, the feeling that you're watching an epic adventure trough
the life of a simple man who never intended to be a great man but he
became one without even knowing it... He lived for the one he loved,
his mother, Jenny, Bubba and Lt. Dan... And Tom Hanks captured this
essence... I truly believe this is one of the greatest movie of all
time... Truly, perfection in simplicity...

******
28 February 2011
9
Ever have that one film that you've been getting bothered to watch, and
just because you haven't seen it people feel the need to hate you and
bash you? Or maybe it's just me. Forrest Gump has been neglected by me
for years on end. Sadly, I can not give a reason strong enough for
people to understand. It's something only I understand.My reason is that sometimes I get so sick and tired of hearing so much
about one film I just blow it off and pick around the edges. It gets
annoying to hear the same thing being spoken over and over again, and
when I say some of my favorite films are Clerks, Tremors, License to
Drive, Joy Ride, and Bio-Dome people, the ones that have heard of the
above, say I have a very eclectic taste in film. That I do. But when
people started verbally insulting me saying "I'm not a real critic" and
"You can't call yourself a critic if you haven't seen the masterpiece
that is Forrest Gump, I finally just said "OK! I'll watch it!" The plot
I won't waste time repeating. Aside from me till this day EVERYONE
knows the plot of Forrest Gump. So why repeat it? A simpleton with an
IQ of 75 (Hanks) describes his life in an autobiographical form to
strangers while waiting for a bus. Can't get more simplistic than that.Forrest Gump has been called by people "a masterpiece" and "a classic."
While I think it's a well made film, I don't think it deserved six
Oscars. I also don't think I should be ridiculed and slapped in the
face for not seeing this film. It wasn't truly amazing. In fact, no
film is really "amazing." Even the favorite film I don't call amazing.
When defining "amazing" you'll find it's definition is "surprising
greatly." I've seen actors, directors, people, teachers, etc do an
"amazing" job teaching. The film I'm waiting to define "amazing" has
not been found.The Oscars Gump won were Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best
Actor, Best Director, Best Effects, and Best Film Editing. It deserved
Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Actor, Best Director, and Best Editing.
That's about it. Forrest Gump, Pulp Fiction, Four Weddings and a
Funeral, The Shawshank Redemption, Quiz Show were all nominated for
Best Picture in the year 1994. I can tell you right now I liked
Shawshank better than Gump.As for the rest, Director Robert Zemeckis did a great job adapting the
story onto film. Tom Hanks is rightfully the only person who could play
Forrest with true affection. I respect that. Hanks is now attached to
so many things like Angels and Demons and The Da Vinci Code I think
"Will he ever make a film worth seeing again?" One category Forrest
Gump should've won for is "Best Musical Score." The film includes the
catchiest, most enjoyable score I can remember in a film. It's
definitely on my list of faves (and my iPod for that matter). I found
myself jamming out to the tunes in this movie. Especially Lynyrd
Skynyrd's iconic "Free Bird" which was used to perfection in this film.Forrest Gump, the character, is very likable because of his mild
mannered and innocent ways. I enjoyed the scenes of him in the army,
and the scenes of him at the end. He is definitely a very memorable
character. Not an amazing character.My final thoughts on "the greatest movie ever" go as followed; it was a
damn fine film with very memorable moments, but is NOT the greatest
film to ever be filmed, put in theaters, thrown in a case, set on the
shelves. I somehow feel if I was not pressured and annoyed to review
this film I would've enjoyed it more. Maybe if people didn't annoy me
so much to review it I would've enjoyed more of what it had to offer.
The damage is done. I bet even after I'm done with this review people
will say I didn't do it appropriate justice. I got two words to say for
them; s**t happens.Starring: Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, and
Sally Field. Directed by: Robert Zemeckis.

******
29 January 2011
10
I watched this a very long time ago, but I never really appreciated
this movie. It must have been because I was very young. I wasn't even
born when the movie first aired! However, I do remember a few scenes
from this movie. The ones that stuck with me throughout the years were
the very, very sad scene of Bubba dying and the oh-so-famous quote:
"Life is like a box of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna
get." This movie starts with a feather floating in the background,
getting flown all over in the place, when finally it lands beside some
dirty rubber shoes. The owner of these shoes, Forrest Gump, picks it up
and keeps it. He just sits there, quietly all by himself, when a woman
sits beside him on his bench. He then greets her and thus, begins the
narration of his life story.His story is wonderful. I loved everything about it. Forrest wasn't
exactly the brightest crayon in the box. On top of that, he couldn't
even walk properly. His IQ was a poor 75 and he couldn't even get
accepted into a public school. But his mother did everything for
Forrest. His mother was great. You could see she struggling.I thought it was very cute the way Jenny and Forrest's friendship
blossomed. How she invited him to sit beside her. The way they hung
around with each other in their tree and just talked about anything and
everything. Jenny was very protective of Forrest. When the first
bullying encounter happened and Jenny told Forrest to run? That made my
skin have goosebumps. It just felt good. "Run, Forrest! Run!" I also
never realized back then that Jenny was having trouble with her father.
But now, I understand. Jenny's prayer was also.. Amazing. "Dear God,
make me a bird. So I could fly far. Far far away from here." That just
touched me.After his friendship with Jenny, Forrest met Bubba during the Vietnam
War, after he finished college. During the scene where Forrest first
entered the bus, it was like the first day of school all over again!
Nobody would let Forrest sit with him. Until he came upon a guy who had
a weird lip jutting out. That was the start of their strong
brotherhood.I felt like the time they spent together was so short. I didn't even
cry when Bubba died. It was weird since I was expecting to cry, seeing
as how Bubba's scene was the one that stayed with me all throughout the
years. I'm so disappointed in my lack of emotional attachment. But I
still love Bubba. :) It was nice how Forrest went on with his shrimp
catching business just for the sake of keeping his promise to Bubba.The two things that changed during my previous screenings and the one I
had tonight were 1.) I liked Lt. Dan more than I thought I would and
2.) Jenny wasn't all that great.I'll talk about Lt. Dan first. First of all, I didn't even remember
him! I was even shocked when I saw that his legs were cut off! See how
much that "didn't" affect me. But he was a good friend. He became one
of Forrest's best friends. He even stood up for him when one of the
hookers called Forrest stupid. I thought Dan didn't care, but that
proved me wrong. They even became partners with the whole Bubba-Gump
thing. Sweet.Now, about Jenny. I don't see why Forrest liked her. Yes, I get that
they were friends since childhood, but after they grew out of their
childhood, she kept leaving him! I was so mad after she left him during
"the morning after". At least that sparked Forrest's will to run all
over America. Hm.The ending was great. I forgot all about that. What a welcome surprise.
It's just a shame that Jenny died, too, in the end. All of Forrest's
loved ones passed away. All he's got left is Little Forrest. I guess in
a way, that was nice. He had someone to look after and someone to look
after him. :) There were a lot of great cameos that I was on a look out
for. I loved that Elvis part! I even took a second look to check if
that guy was really Elvis! Yes. I know. It's impossible since he's
already dead, but hey! It seemed realistic. There were also meetings
with different presidents. And a deal he had with a very famous "fruit
company". The cameos just kept coming and coming. And it worked! The
main message of this movie was that life just keeps on going. Bad
things are inevitable, but you can trust that there will be a million
good things that will come your way. It's a movie about life. Forrest
Gump teaches you things. He sees the world from a different viewpoint.
Not an idiot's viewpoint. But a child-like sort-of perspective. No
biases at all. Just an average things-the-way-they-actually-are
perspective. This is one movie you mustn't dare miss. Wonderful movie.
Just wonderful.

******
6 June 2010
10
I have this in my collection it is by far the most played movie I own.
I love the simplicity of it, while at the same time being a complex
tale of how so many of recent history's pivotal moments involved the
same man. From the simple reference of Forrest teaching Elvis to dance,
to meeting Presidents as an adult. I love the music and the scenery,
the costuming and the special effects, which although now are common in
movies, for their time were ground breaking in the way they were done
with such detail. And it is the detail of this movie that makes it work
so well. For instance when Lt DAN is on the floor in the motel room and
spins around, his "missing legs" do not get caught on the table in the
centre of the room. This was done by filming the scene without the
table in the room so that Gary Sinise could move, then placing it back
later to reinforce that this character had no legs. It is the sort of
detail that is rarely noticed, unless it is not addressed. But most of
all I love the fact that at heart it is really just a simple story of a
man's love for his one true love, Jenny, a tortured soul who was so
mismatched for him in so many ways that it was always going to be
impossible for them to be together but this did not stop Forrest
carrying her in his heart throughout all his adventures. It is easy to
see why this movie was an award winner and remains my favourite movie
of all time.

******
14 April 2010
9
Forrest Gump An absolute film favourite of mine, mainly because there
has never been a movie character that I have appreciated so much as
Forrest Gump. A simple man who experiences (and creates) some of the
most significant events in American history, while all he really wants
is to be with the woman he loves, Jenny.Tom Hanks gave an incredible performance as Forrest, a man of 75 IQ who
is waiting at a bus stop whilst telling his life story. As we see the
story develop from him meeting both his sweetheart Jenny, Elvis Presley
and being told 'run Forrest, run!' different people arrive at the bus
stop and listen to him. Each meets his story with emotions ranging from
enraptured to derision, as they learn with the audience the incredible
life Forrest has led. This includes him starring in the All American
Football team, winning a Congressional Medal of Honour in Vietnam,
exposing the Watergate scandal and making millions from 'Bubba-Gump
shrimping industries', while meeting three different U.S Presidents
along the way. The film ends on a poignant note, with Jenny and Forrest
meeting again and having a son, as Jenny dies of HIV/AIDS.Along with Tom Hanks in the title role Forrest Gump featured an
excellent supporting cast, with career bests from Robin Wright Penn as
Jenny and Gary Sinise as the legless Vietnam veteran Lt. Dan Taylor.I was inspired by the wonder of a man experiencing his life without
realising its significance to the world, just simply wishing for an
emotionally damaged woman who goes on to live a lonely life without
him. She rejects Forrest, telling him 'he doesn't know what love is',
before eventually realising that no-one would ever love her more.Due to its preposterous plot line and sentimental tone, Forrest Gump
could easily have descended into melodramatic mush peppered with phony
special effects. However in the capable hands of screenwriter Roth and
director Zemeckis the movie becomes a highly entertaining yet profound
account of one simple-minded man who goes on an enthralling quest. For
such an audacious film there were amazingly few flaws (Forrest
inspiring John Lennon to write the song 'Imagine' and the contrivances
of him running across America the only examples I can recall).Forrest Gump is a film that may well transcend anything of its kind. It
gave us a character I had great sympathy and hope for, and reminded me
that a person needs no intelligence to be an upstanding and admirable
person.9/10 BrianInvincible

******
8 April 2010
9
There are some in which we cannot enjoy .There are some movies which aren't smart mix of comedy and drama.There is one Forrest Gump which changed whole structure of mixes .There is one Tom Hanks who definitely one of the best actor who
transformed himself from dummy to smart man .There are so many laughs and so many dramatic scenes .There is one sad but funny story .There is story which learned us how one man can change the world with
his running and he can call whole nation to run with him .There is one friendship with Bubba which ends with death and there is
one love with Jenny .There is only one Forrest Gump and watch it .

******
5 April 2010
9
As a low-IQ child escaping the pursuit of his classmates, a football
player holding the ball considering nothing but to run, and a Vietnam
War soldier saving his friends regardless of danger, Forrest Gump
seemed to be running all the way in his life. He ran through not only
his life, but also most of the most meaningful years of American
history. We can never imagine that it is a person with only 75 IQ that
could be interviewed by the President Kennedy and President Johnson,
accidentally exposed the Watergate scandal of President Nixon,
participated in the establishment of diplomatic relations between China
and America, and even enlightened Elvis Presley with his casual dance.
He shared his innocence and purity with people around him, even in the
most difficult times, and also explained us what true love and
friendship are. Finally, Forrest became a millionaire, a father, and an
idol by his running-followers, any of which could be the dream of the
normal people. He made us laugh at ourselves, because we finally
realized that it is not your possessions that make you powerful, but
your internal heart.

******
3 April 2010
10
All I can say is that I love this movie! Tom Hanks is such a wonderful
actor. The very beautiful Robin Wright was perfect for this part, she
always loved Forrest, but just was never really in love with him, and
ends up jumping around from guy to guy looking for love and drugs as a
adolescent sexually abused flower child of the 1960's. Although Forest was born with a learning disorder, he goes on to
accomplish great things, and meet some of histories most notable
figures of the 1950's, 1960's and 1970's such as President John F.
Kennedy, President Lyndon Johnson, President Richard Nixon, Governor
George Wallace, before he is shot, leaders of the Black Panthers, Elvis
Presley and Forrest even receives the Medal of Honor for selfishly
saving the lives of his fellow platoon members during Vietnam war.After Forrest's return to civilian life, he goes on to start a
shrimping company named the Bubba Gump shrimping company with his
former Lt. Colonel, who thn wisely invests the companies profits in a
small start up in Silicon Valley called Apple computer.Although Forrest accomplishes success in life, deep inside all he
really wants is to marry Jenny, his child hood friend and first love,
and have a family. The story takes an interesting twist when Jenny is
diagnosed with a disease that we can only assume may be AIDS due to her
care free and irresponsible drug use and numerous sexual partners over
the years.Such a movie, although fictional inspires all us to strive to be good
hearted and kind, in a child like manner as Forrest Gump is. This film is a modern day classic that you can watch over and over
again.Jose F. Medeiros

******
6 March 2010
10
I just recently saw this film and I gotta say, it had to be one of the
best movies I've ever seen! This film has everything you could want in
a film, humor, sadness, drama, action, etc. The actors were fantastic,
especially Tom Hanks, who's performance is one of the best ever. This
film also explores a short glimpse of the horror and loss of friends in
the infamous Vietnam War, which just added to the film's greatness.
Overall, Mr. Zemeckiz has created a film that will live inside
everyone's hearts for the years to come. I have never, nor ever will,
see a more emotional, gripping, and inspirational film than Forrest
Gump!

******
25 December 2009
10
I lost count of the number of times i watched this movie. It must have
been a dozen times at least. However, every time i'm viewing this
movie, it's like seeing it for the first time. It's still as brilliant,
cheerful and emotional without losing any of its glance or beauty, and
the story stays as powerful as it truly is and keeps you interested
till the end. Seeing it for just a few seconds makes you stick to the
screen till the end-music stops. The dialogues are perfect, the timing
is as a swiss watch, the story-twists are more than one could imagine,
and the setting in the enduring storyline of the 60's, 70's and 80's of
last century, placing the movie inside the main events of that era,
just gives you the idea that this almost could be a real-life story. It
at least makes me wish it really was.If there should be a best-movie-ever, i think this movie should be it.
It would have my vote at least. Forget the Godfather, LOTR or Star
Wars, this truly is a movie that you'll never forget.

******
23 December 2009
9
The concept of the movie at the first instant might seem a bit absurd
because you might seem to wonder how a man can be intelligent and act
stupid at the same time. But this is exactly what Tom Hanks manages to
do and do it perfectly.This is a story of a man whose IQ is lower than that of a normal person
but still manages to do everything in life on his own and manages to
find love in his life through Jenny. Every moment in the film
emotionally touches you especially the sequences between Jenny and
Forrest. The dialogs are really gripping and makes you take notice of
the hard-work put into writing those lines.Special mention has to go to the writing department. Not easy to create
a character to which audiences can relate. A very subtle story,
beautifully crafted and perfectly executed. Director Robert Zemeckis
has put up a commendable effort for giving us his most-prized
possession of his career.But the film stands firmly on its feet mainly due to Tom Hanks. The
actor deserves his second successive Oscar after Philadelphia. He
manages to bring out one of the best performances of his career, ably
supported by Gary Sinise, a deserving Oscar nomination. The sequences
between them are hilarious to watch and they share a great on-screen
chemistry.The movie in itself is a revolution. Such movies are hard to come by.
Do yourself a favor and waste no time in catching this movie. Just like
in the movie all used to tell Gump "Run, Forrest, Run.", I say to you,
"Run, Viewers, Run."

******
4 December 2009
10
Everything about this film works! The acting. The visuals. The story.
Everything is strewn together in a story of one's mans life and his
journey to understand love, friendship, and destiny, leaving us with a
film unlike any other that cannot be imitated.Tom Hanks's performance as the main character will be the one that
defines his career. He makes his character believable yet different
from any other movie character ever created. Watching him grow up and
learn more about the world is already well done, but what is amazing is
that even though his world changes around him, he does not. As a
result, he learns more about life, love, destiny, and how they all work
together.Gary Sinise's character, Lt. Dan, is one of my favorites in this movie.
Just like Forrest, he learns about destiny and life. But unlike
Forrest, he already had his own belief about destiny, and how he was
destined to be a certain thing. But life got in the way, and he felt
"cheated" out of his destiny growing depressed and alcoholic. It is not
until a life-threatening situation that he comes at peace with his life
and the fact that it took a road different from his destiny.The way that director Robert Zemeckis uses both human emotion and
creative special effects to tell such a story is ingenious. Everything
flows together, creating an unforgettable story that faces issues like
destiny and fate, American society and history, and love and
friendship. Add that to great performances, especially from Hanks and
Sinise, and what comes out is a great story that will be around and
highly admired for years to come. 10 out of 10!

******
1 July 2009
9
Forrest Gump is one of my favorite movies of all time. It tells of a
mentally disabled man who has lived through so much history and who did
not let his disability hold him back from living an ordinary life. In
fact, Forrest lived an extraordinary life that most people do not get
to experience. His innocence has made this story humorous and
heartwarming. It is very difficult to not fall in love with the
character Tom Hanks has created. Hanks has done a remarkable job with
portraying Forrest Gump making you laugh while your crying. I have
watched Forrest Gump a million times and I can watch it a million more
times. I recommend everyone of all ages to watch this movie.

******
4 January 1999
6

I found this an entertaining movie to watch, nothing more, nothing less. I
have one major reason for being negative about this film: it portrays a man
who is able to attain the 'American Dream' without any intelligence. However
much we can admire him for that, I'm afraid that the message being sent out
is that you don't need education or smarts and that everything will come to
you as if laid by a golden goose. Surely this is not what the movie makers
intended but that's the way it came across on me.Besides that I must say that Tom Hanks does an excellent acting job, and for
that alone the film is actually worth watching...but not a
classic.

******
4 December 1998
10

I must admit that I did not understand sadness in movies before this. This
was truthfully one of the only movies that I would ever even feel sad at
all. I've seen movies like Good Will Hunting and had no idea why people
thought that was so sad but this is a great movie that is funny and makes
you feel like you are there the whole time. I personally like this movie
because it's the only kind of non horror or action film that I can actually
get into. I recommend this to anyone

******
16 November 1998
9

Forrest Gump could have been better, but it's good enough.In the first half hour I find the screenplay's a bit weak but then I get
carried away by Zemeckis' creativity in bringing historical icons into
Gump's simplicity. The music and the background are fantastic but somehow
the acting from the casts don't impress me as much as they should.
Nevertheless, overall it's the feel-good film of the year.

******
12 November 1998
9

I like this movie very much. The first time I saw the movie, it was the
french version. The movie was good but the voices were not so good. Then a
saw the original version then I was surprised how much the movie was better.
Tom Hanks is one of the greatest actors in the present area, he won two Oscars
in a row. All of the supporting actors made a great job too. Tom was
marvellous in Forest Gump. I like the way Forest goes through modern
American history. The story is presented is a funny way. We saw all the good
and the bad mood America has go through. The music is also
great.


******
24 October 1998
10

Probably the best movie I've ever seen! Forrest Gump, along with
Titanic(1997), will be an unforgettable movie, a classic. After watching the
relatively long film, I couldn't get enough of it, I wanted more and more.
I'm sure you'll feel the same feelings I had after the end. I would gladly
see it once more, without being bored not even a second. I think that tells
it all.Tom Hanks is an excellent actor. I wish he had earned his third nomination
for best actor for Apollo 13. The next movie I'm watching is Saving Private
Ryan.Thanks.

******
1 October 1998
10

The rest of the comments in the comments section seem like they are talking
about another movie. What does Forest Gump lack? Plot? Imagination?
Originality? Excellent acting? By all means, none of those! Why should it be
compared to The Shawshank Redemption, I can't comprehend. These are both
excellent movies, but of a very different genre. Personally, I wasn't as
touched watching The Shawshank Redemption, and never have I laughed as much
as was moved in the same movie.Hanks' acting was the apogee of his career, not even outmatched by his role
in Saving Private Ryan, which I loved, and consider the greatest war film of
all time.The story is indeed eye-watering. An improvement of the novel. Behind the
character of Forest Gump hides a philosophy.... An awe to the man who knew
nothing yet lived them all.Merely, Forest Gump is a classic.

******
12 September 1998
10

You'll laugh. You'll cry. You'll just have a darn good time. Tom Hanks gives
the performance of his career, one year after his other brilliant
performance in Jonathan Demme's masterpiece Philadelphia. The supporting
cast is flawless, and the soundtrack would have to be right up there with
the Star Wars soundtrack as the best ever, including my personal favourite
Creedence Clearwater Revival. Anyone who says this film only won Oscars
because, like Rain Man it was about an idiot, has no idea what they are
talking about. Citizen Kane may be the greatest film of all time on a
technical level, and I do love it, but is it as magical as this film?I
think not. 

******
26 March 2012
10
In "Forrest Gump", Tom Hanks and Gary Senise are brilliant along with
the rest of the cast. From start to finish, most everyone will love
this flick. I can't find fault with this movie, and I am shocked by
some of the negative comments on this forum because it is a truly great
film.I've watched this movie at least 10 times and I just love it. This
movie is filled with all the emotions done with precision. Just sit
back and enjoy it. In some ways it is so light on the outside and so
profound in other ways. This is a wonderful movie for all ages and is
so very deep. You will die laughing and also cry your eyes out. All you
need is a pulse and you will love this movie for ever. 10 out of 10!
One of the most memorable movies of all time.

******
21 March 2012
10
"Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies ever made! It made a HUGE
impact on me when I saw it in 1993.If you haven't seen this one, you should go out and rent it when you
get the chance. Tom Hanks has never been better, and the rest of the
cast I have no complaints to make. I haven't seen them so much before,
but as far as I can see they should all have won an Oscar for best
performance! If it could be possible, my biggest wish right now is that
there could be a second movie coming out soon. Then we would see how it
has gone for Forest and his friend Lt.Dan. If they have made more money
or if they have lost it all. (Not that I believe they would have lost
it, with the luck that Forest has). As i final comment, I have to say
that this movie has given me so much joy through the years.Much like "Sound of Music" did for that generation, this film does for
our times!

******
6 December 2010
10
This might be my first review In IMDb... But I have to tell you what i
felt after watching this movie.... I live in a place where i dunno
anybody and i dunno what i m doing... .I m away from my parents, away
from my brother....away from my life doing something just to earn money
and fame... .This movie explained me What i actually want from my
life...Just Love and only love.. .I Think about u mom!!! i miss u..
some movies are definitely life changing...for me this is...if you
think i m one emotional pervert.OK, but this is what this movie can do
to you....OK the performances were out of the world..the direction was
classy...and Tom hanks...what a performer he has been...he is
definitely gifted and is here to change lives of so many...I am one
among that few or many... ..For those who are just deciding to or not
to watch this movie, Please don't afford to miss this movie.. ..this
might well change your destiny or may be not...

******
1 August 2009
10
Some movies are not to be rated because those are the movies which
defines movies. Entire story of movie is summarized in this one line which tom hanks
says simply somewhere in middle of movie. "I am not the smart man. But
I know what love is."Tom hanks at its best of all performance. Not stupid but less smart
than others. He is best in everything but he never do anything for
himself. He proves to be a best son, best soldier, best sportsman, best
shrimper, best runner, best father and at all times, a true lover. Tom will give his best in everything while maintaining his simplicity
and innocence which gives you a smile every time with moisture in eyes.
One of the rare movie which can make you smile and cry at same time.Nothing needs to be said for this movie. Oscar defines it all. Don't
care about ratings and watch this masterpiece.

******
14 July 2009
10
This is one of my favorite movies that I've ever seen. It's
heartwarming, beautiful, charming, funny, and just overall great. The
acting is superb, the story is excellent, and music is probably the
best I've ever heard. Mostly because of the genius song selection for
this movie. Every single song in this movie that you will hear(not
including the original score)will perfectly some up the 50's - 90's
era.A great thing about this movie is that the story centers around
historic events like Vietnam, Watergate, and even includes famous
people like JFK, LBJ, Elvis, and John Lennon. The movie perfectly
captures these famous moments and people through the eyes Forrest Gump
who simply was at the right place at the right time.Forrest Gump is an innocent tale about an innocent, loving man who gets
sucked into America's history from the 1950's - 1990's. While going
through these important moments of America's history, he is also trying
to be with the woman he loves, Jenny. Jenny is an interesting character
because her actions and her life are the exact opposite of Forrest's.
Forrest is a person who wouldn't hurt a fly. He manages his life well,
works hard, and has family values which make him a great person and
therefore,the audience can easily fall in love with him. Jenny on other
hand, is a person who can't seem to live her life. As a child she was
abused by her father, she got kicked of college for appearing in a
Playboy magazine, and her dream of becoming a country singer is pretty
much destroyed because in the 70's she started taking drugs and the
entire time she's being used or abused by every man that she meets,
except Forrest.Thats the beauty of the film. You want these two to get together.
You're rooting for the characters. And that's something hard to find in
movies.Forrest Gump still stands the test of time even though it's already 15
years old. It's a classic movie that I enjoy watching whenever it's on
TV. It offers a great story complete with great acting. If you haven't
seen this movie yet, then what the hell are you doing? Go watch it, I
guarantee you won't be disappointed.10/10 A+ all the way

******
4 July 2009
10
gonna keep this short cos' I could write about this movie all day,
there's just so much to talk about! an amazing film that tells an
amazing story about an amazing man, forrest gump has got it all: a
brilliant cast, a wonderful score, arguably the best soundtrack of all
time, and so many emotional highs and lows.great special effects too,
and the Vietnam section is better than 99% of the movies that actually
centre on the Vietnam war.lots of laugh out loud moments, and I love the direction by the master
of all things fantastical, Robert Zemeckis.what a movie!

******
2 March 2009
9
Forrest Gump, from a humble afflicted childhood, and with a low IQ,
goes on to play a major part in the history of the second part of the
20th century.Forrest Gump is one of those movies that comes along every once in a
while to light a fuse under the movie worlds bottom! The sort of film
that has evident flaws yet packs in so much charm, wit, intelligence
and sentiment to make it really difficult to dislike with any sort of
conviction. Even those with an aversion to the talent of Tom Hanks
would surely be kidding themselves if they honestly fail to see that
Hanks, as Gump, gives anything less than an extraordinary performance.What made Forrest Gump such a well loved picture? Garnering 5 golden
baldies at the Academy Awards {three of them the main ones} and earning
a staggering $677,387,716 worldwide after being made for the now
relatively paltry sum of $55 million? Personally I think it has a
little of everything that a film watcher wants in a picture, it sure
does have things many dislike {the romantic arc, the overdose of sugary
sentiment}, but as Forrest lurches from each apparently none-plussed
situation to another, the air of the underdog coming thru triumphant
sticks in the craw, but, in a most appetising way. We are in the
company of a perfectly honest, simple and innocent man, he may not know
it, but Forrest Gump has become a champion of the people, both in the
film and to us the movie loving public.If by some miracle you still haven't seen Forrest Gump, then I urge you
to do so, it may not resonate with you as much as it did/does the
majority {argue with the box office I say}, but for towering
performances by Tom Hanks and Gary Sinise, and for being a clever movie
with its finger on the pulse of Hollywood, Forrest Gump has few peers.
9/10

******
20 July 2007
10
Well. When Tom Hanks is acting there is no doubt's that the production
will be a box office hit. He is a true prodigy of our time. Forrest
Gump can never be told; it has to be seen in order to appreciate this
masterpiece. This movie never ages, it really gives us hope and seeing
this really makes us think what it would have been like, if the whole
world had people like Forrest. Hanks have portrayed the protagonist in
his usual brilliant way. Since thousands of reviews have already been
given I will not go into details; Forrest Gump can be recommended for
any one who likes watching movie with a riveting theme.Forrest Gump will always remain as a true achievement in Movie Making.

******
23 July 2006
6
In all fairness and all clichs and preachy political statements aside,
Forest Gump is an extremely watchable film on a basic level. If you just see it as a straightforward biographical story, then
director Robert Zemeckis really gets you involved in the main character
throughout his life. It features comedy, a war story, portrayals of
eras, issues of acceptance and tops it off with a romance story--all
supported by mostly strong performances and a fantastic soundtrack. However, when you scratch the surface of some of these things--and
sometimes you don't even have to--you see the many issues that the film
attempts to tackle and they are so many and so stupidly treated that it
really ends up a babble of political correctness. AIDS, prostitution,
racism, war, drugs and conformity are all touched upon at various
stages of Forest's life as he experiences them like the innocent child
that he is. The treatment of some of these issues is offensively moralistic and
perpetuates and facilitates the holier-than-thou moral high-ground that
Zemeckis takes in the film. Example: Forest fights in Vietnam war. Forest denounces war. Forest
makes best friends with an African American guy. Forest won't take
drugs. Forest helps bitter handicapped guy. Forest has a sincere mind.
The only remotely rebellious character in this film is killed off with
AIDS.Or maybe I'm simply too cynical to truly enjoy Forest Gump and its
preachy optimism and 'fine-and-dandy' attitude. Either way, this film
is obnoxiously politically correct but still quite enjoyable. 6/10

******
31 October 2002
4

This movie manages to get the idea of the book and some of the episodes, but
completely misses the tone, which was dark and cynical. Imagine Candide
being made into a Lifetime movie and you get the idea.Tom Hanks is fine (although actors get a little too much credit for playing
mentally-challenged individuals - a bigger challenge would be Einstein,
Leonardo, or like Tom Hulce, Amadeus Mozart). Some of the better, more fantastic parts of the book are completely left
out. One in particular involves Forrest's being stranded on a Pacific island
following the crash of his spacecraft (he is an Astrophysics savant).
Would've been great. This movie cried out for a director like Terry Gilliam,
but it got hackmaster Z. Oh well. It wouldn't hurt so much if it hadn't won
best picture and best actor(!?!?!).

******
31 August 2008
9
Screen favorite Tom Hanks proves that even the most unlikely soul can
change the world in the award-winning 1994 blockbuster "Forrest Gump".
The movie chronicles the life of Forrest Gump (Hanks), a slow-witted
but good-hearted Alabama man who has been present during significant
historic events in the 20th century. In his life, Forrest Gump has been
an All-American football star, a Vietnam War hero, a champion Ping-Pong
player, a successful fishing tycoon and an inspiration for a whole
generation. Directed by Robert Zemeckis (Back to the Future), "Forrest
Gump" is a remarkably uplifting smash hit that ranks as one of the best
films of the 1990s. Tom Hanks delivers his most entertaining acting
performance. "Forrest Gump" features an unforgettable story, great
special effects and terrific performances by Robin Wright, Gary Sinise
and Sally Field. The 142-minute blockbuster opened with overwhelming
positive reviews, grossed over $650 million worldwide and earned six
Academy Award wins including Best Picture, Best Director and Best
Actor. "Forrest Gump" Collector's Edition is an absolute must-have for
any DVD collection. The 1994 blockbuster is presented is its theatrical
2.35:1 anamorphic widescreen format. The 2-Disc DVD contains an
enjoyably well-defined video transfer and an excellent 5.1 Dolby
digital sound. Its supplemental extras include two detailed audio
commentaries by director Robert Zemeckis and crew, the 30-minute
"Through the Eyes of Forrest Gump" documentary, behind-the-scenes and
visual effects featurettes, trailers and picture gallery. Overall,
"Forrest Gump" scores a winning "A".

******
4 June 2005
6
It seems that most people either love "Forrest Gump" or hate it. I am
right down the middle. I didn't find this movie to be a masterpiece,
but I thought that it was interesting how they did it. The title
character (Tom Hanks) is of course a retarded Alabaman who grows up
with his single mother (Sally Field). Throughout the movie, he plays a
part in almost every major event of the post-WWII era, and in the
process meets several distinguished personalities. All the while, he
continues trying to get back together with his sweetheart Jenny Curran
(Robin Wright Penn). Toeing the line between comedy (he shows his butt
to LBJ) and drama (his friend Bubba gets killed in Vietnam), the movie
never gets idiotic, although it was intermittently sappy.Either way, I liked "Forrest Gump". It was the first Best Picture
winner that I saw in the theaters, but I didn't consider it the best
movie of 1994. In my opinion, that distinction goes to the
under-appreciated "Shawshank Redemption".Tom Hanks sure has come a long way since his debut, the slasher flick
"He Knows You're Alone".

******
18 December 2003
7

People seem of two minds about this film: it either moves them to tears or
to nausea.  But in reality, it is a well-made film with some strong
performances but not more than that.  The core of this movie that is as
simple minded as the title character; the facile speciousness of the movie's
reactionary attacks on matters I agreed with made me realize just how
shallow the movie's entire argument is.But beyond that, the movie is very well made; Hanks's performance could have
been annoying in other hands but works well here.  Sinise was excellent as
well.  Robin Wright's performance was adequate - I try not to blame her for
the movie's implied argument that the social movements of the 60's and 70's
were a working out of childhood neuroses - but never really stuck to me. 
The technical aspects of the film are outstanding, and the movie has a lot
of laughs and tears despite its empty headed core.If it helps anyone, this is my wife's favorite movie.  But then, she fell
asleep during Casablanca, so....

******
20 October 2000
5

I am surprised that `Forrest Gump' made it on the 1997 AFI list of the 100
best American films. My only explanation is that had the virtue of being a
recent film. It is memorable, no doubt, but it doesn't fit
together.When I first saw the film, I didn't understand the Black Panthers or even
the specifics of the Vietnam War. Ultimately I was lost at some places. Now
I understand the history, and my stomach turns at the thought of squeezing
forty years of history into a two and a half hour film; it didn't work.
Digressing, I am shocked by how disgustingly idiotic the character is
portrayed, under the guise of a 75 IQ. I'm no expert, but I don't see
someone with that IQ dropping his pants or letting himself be hit by rocks.
Frankly, the rural areas of the South where young Gump grew up didn't yield
rocket scientists. This is because common sense was taught instead of the
abstract reasoning of the Weschler IQ scorer. Just because a person cannot
recite ten numbers backwards doesn't mean that they will drop their pants on
TV.I'm lingering on this because it annoys me due to my elementary knowledge of
these facts which were overlooked in the plot of the film. In the 1979 film
`Being There', Peter Sellers plays Chance, a gardener with a mind similar to
Forrest Gump; even a little simpler. However, his character never left the
house where he was born and learned everything from television.Next up on the docket, Vietnam. Vietnam was not funny, nor is its
interpretation through the eyes of Private Gump. I don't like heavy-handed
Vietnam films like `Platoon' or `Apocalypse Now', and this film is more
accurate, visually; so I hear. As for the aftermath, Lieutenant Dan's
post-war trauma so closely models that of Jon Voight's character in `Coming
Home' that I would sue for copyright infringement.The acting has ups and downs. Gary Senise is excellent as Lieutenant Dan.
Robin Wright's dime-a-dozen performance makes me want to throw up. Sally
Field is good in her few scenes. Star Tom Hanks is overrated and, frankly,
not deserving of that golden statuette. As for the film's Best Picture
Oscar, I can only conclude that the judges knew they would be lynched by
angry mothers, old people, and arch-conservatives if they selected the
ultra-controversial, though much better, film `Pulp Fiction'.`Forrest Gump' has highlights however. The bus stop bench as a forum was a
fresh idea. The Bubba-Gump Shrimp section is hilarious. And the
too-little-too-late drama at the end of the film sticks with
you.Make your own decision, I'm playing it safe with a 5/10.


******
12 August 2000
7

Entertaining (but long!), however the message seems to be "be simple,
don't
question authority and life will be fine, be angry, politically active,
and
come to a bad end".  Not quite the message I think is healthy to
spread!

******
10 June 2000
6

This is a "cute" movie. Tom Hanks is cute. The video clips are cute, to say
nothing of technologically advanced. Let's face it, this guy Gump knew
everyone, met everyone, and did everything, and there are pictures to prove
it. He was a hero and a Medal of Honor winner and he took care of his slutty
girl-friend who had sex so often with so many different people that she got
this disease no one even had a name for back then, but he just wanted to
marry her anyway. On top of that, he was warm-hearted and sweet and a warm
and fuzzy human being. So what if he was a "dull normal" in IQ terms? He
triumphed over all the egg-heads and nerds, and you, Joe Six-Pack and your
brainless children, you too can triumph over them by being a mediocre, slow,
plodding, non-comprehending, low-IQ individual. You will win in this
technologically cut-throat world-wide competitive market by being nice. The
meek will inherit the earth. Take that Bill Gates!

******
17 May 2007
10
This is the ultimate movie. It contains within it all of humanity and
human history, wrapped around one special guy: Forrest Gump. Gump is
clueless to this fact, he is just looking at the moment or forward, and
in the process he changes history and fates of humans around him to the
better.I recall no other movie that has satisfied me as a human in such way as
this, in both drama, comic and thrill, with a manuscript that seems
god-made in it's completeliness.Only a few other movies ever made, can get close to Forrest Gump, if
you ask me!

******
17 April 2004
4

I had heard a lot about this film before I actually saw it, and the idea of
a man unwittingly being present at the biggest moments of four decades
seemed funny and entertaining enough. But I was heavily
disappointed.What Forrest Gump lacks most is a stringent storytelling. The movie just
doesnt get off the ground. It isnt the fault of the actors in general and
certainly not of Tom Hanks, who gives a brilliant storyteller and doesnt
make pure slapstick out of the dimwitted Forrest - the actors are doing fine
jobs. Its the fault of the filmmakers. Lots of shots and even whole motives
are plainly useless, not even in adding atmosphere, a lot of plot turns
vanish into nothingness. The touching moments are soaked in corny music and
lose their emotional potential, the technically great TV montages get less
entertaining every time because they are wasted in bad punchlines. The whole
dialogue is highly predictable. The reenactment of the Hippie movement is
quite sound, and details like the Watergate joke are good laughs, but the
scenes in between are painfully slow, at the end even simply boring. About a
thousand times you are led to believe that there is a deeper moral than
"enjoy your life with the things you can do really good" (this being
introduced at the very beginning), but it isnt. I dont know what, except for the few gags that really function, could earn
this movie the triumph that it had and still has. Watch "Hair" for the
Sixties and "Harold and Maude" for the moral, you will be better
off.

******
30 August 2001
6

I read the book before going to see the movie.the book was strange but it
was ok.this however is a overrated movie with a highly predictable
performance by Tom Hanks.this movie was both pointless and how it managed to
defeat pulp fiction at the oscars well only the academy know that one.i
hated this movie with a vengeance i saw this the same day as the fantastic
The Lion King.After the highs of Disney came the Lows of Hanks.a truly
pathetic movie.

******
14 January 2002
5

This movie has several elements for success in the right place, and could
have been a true classic.  Ultimately, however, it is undermined by its
own
thinly-veiled moralizing and its whitewashing of social institutions and
history.  This confection has an inviting, sugary coating of the sweetness
of love and the matters of the heart, but has at its center the preaching
of
the "moral value" of social conformity.

******
8 March 2001
3

The first half of the film is OK, the second half one of the most tedious
experiences imaginable.  Quite possibly the most overrated movie of all
time.  "Pulp Fiction" was robbed for "Best Picture."  This is one of those
films that people feel required to love because the main character is
"slow."

******
5 November 2006
1
Gimme a break. There are a few nicely photographed scenes, especially
in Vietnam-section, but otherwise this is as pathetic, manipulative
tearjerking as it gets. Of course you always succeed when you put a
retard or other ways handicapped or addicted person in the main role
("Rainman", "Awakenings", "Bad Boy Bubby" etc etc) and make him deal
with the "sane" world. Drama unfolds by itself. It's funny how almost
all the films which are labeled as "family picture" don't concern male
members aged 15-60. So don't worry, producers and film companies, there
are always this huge part of mankind to whom you can sell these stories
no matter how transparently "constructed": women. And senior citizens
who you can of course sell anything to.Like in everything, there are a few exceptions, i.e. movies you can
honestly offer to everyone. "Sixth Sense" coming first in mind.

******
14 June 2006
2
I read the book and saw the movie back in the 90s when both were out
and popular. The book was wonderful. The movie was pure junk! All the darkly sad and darkly humorous parts of the book were
completely chewed up and regurgitated into pablum for the masses, so
that Forrest Gump the Movie would be the feel-good experience of the
year. Which it was, apparently. The masses are stupid. If I was the author of this book, I'd be pi**ed at this movie.This review requires 10 lines, but if I were to write more, it would be
to give too much of my valuable time to this crappy movie.But I want to warn intelligent viewers out there who might not have
seen this clap-trap yet, to avoid it.So I will try to accomplish 10 lines via the return key.Do I have 10 lines yet?Edited 9/20/96 - adding 1 star to this; I've seen the worst movie ever
made (Crash-1996) and it's a true 1-star; no movie deserves to be in
the same class as Crash, therefore I am adding 1 star to all my
previously rated 1- and 2-star flicks.

******
5 June 2003
3

More hollow patriotic nonsense from Hollywood, if Zemeckis is going to
insist on trying to rewrite the past could he at least make it interesting
as in the first two Back to the Future films.The moral of the film is ultimately that despite how stupid you might be, or
whatever historical connections with the KKK you have, if you play sports
and join the army you can be a good old all American hero. hardly
fascinating stuff. I watched this film in theaters in the US and people were
cheering at the Vietnam scenes and when Forrest gets his share at Apple
Mackintosh. Saw this film again in Britain and the same scenes were greeted
with the deserved apathy and boredom. I think that says it
all.If you are interested in seeing a very patronizing and shallow movie about
recent American history, then this film is for you.

******
29 June 2002
2

One of Oscar's low moments had to be in awarding this picturebest film, best director, and best lead actor. The movie's nothingbut a pastiche of sentimentalism and forced nostalgia, strungtogether with soundbytes and pasted-in beautiful visuals, like aHallmark card glued onto celluloid.The whole schtick of having Forrest appear at "key moments" inthe 60s and 70s is just a sort of emotional rorshach blot on film,designed to allow the viewer to see whatever she or he wants.Even the soundtrack is a formulaic greatest hits soundtrack.Vietnam? Creedence! Drug scene in the early 70s? The Doors!Want to relive the running craze of the 70s? Jackson Browne's"Running on Empty!"  Yes, the movie is that achingly literal.I'm also stunned Hanks got best actor for this film. Hollywoodreally does love actors playing "special" people, doesn't it? (DustinHoffman in Rainman, Billy Bob Thornton in Sling Blade, etc. )Hanks is a professional, to be sure, but given the plotless text andthe range of emotions in the character (the whole gamut fromscared and stupid to confused and stupid), it wasn't a whole lot towork with.In an allegedly enlightened era, too, there's a lot of humour in thismovie which is basically, "look at how stupid this retarded guy is!he doesn't know his mother's whoring! he doesn't know a shrimpboat isn't a tiny little craft! he doesn't get ironic humour like we do!ha ha ha ha ha!" Pair him up with another such person in theVietnam sequences, ha ha, it's so funny the two dummies don'tknow the other one is a dummy! So to compliment the trite,non-dramatic sentimentalism, we have sophomoric comedy at theexpense of the mentally retarded.The one curiousity is an early performance by Haley Joel Osmentas, of course, a preturnaturally loquacious but cute mop-toppedurchin (spoiler coming) named Forrest Gump Junior.

******
22 July 2006
1
I almost walked out of the theater when I saw this movie. I usually
love Tom Hanks, but his acting was wooden and his character was
unbelievable. I was very disappointed when it received an academy
award. The movie was supposed to be inspiring, but it's hard for me to
be inspired when there's so little that's recognizable about a
character. I think the reason the box of chocolates line was quoted so
much was that that was all that was memorable about the movie. One
"effect" that I especially disliked was the technique whereby Forrest
Gump was included in old footage. In addition, I found myself worrying
about Sally Field's career. There was a period in her career when she
was in some excellent movies and this role as a pitiful mother
definitely seemed like a step down.

******
15 March 2005
1
This is one of the worse movies I've ever seen. An insult to one's
intelligence. Unbelievable and just plain moronic, I could barely
watch. Tom Hanks was stiff and gave his worse performance ever. The
directing was dreadful. Only a five year old could come close to
believing any of this could ever happen. All the money spent on a
turkey like this is shameful. And to think that it was actually
successful is mind boggling. I was embarrassed watching it. The
producers and director involved should have been barred from the
industry for five years. The script should have been thrown away on
half a reading. To suggest that a retarded person could play football
is completely ignorant.

******
15 December 2006
1
One would think you would have to be 5 years old to like this movie.
Tom Hank's worse acting job ever. If you could call it an acting job.
"Dah, I'm a dumb guy, please have empathy for me." This movie begs for
your sympathy. But Forrest is a hollow shell, and as unbelievable as
the inane plot. How can anyone like this movie. Your more likely to
meet the Wizard of OZ in Emerald City than you are to meet an athlete
like Forrest Gump. It's not possible and it's not funny to pretend that
it is possible. How about a sequel where Gump becomes a heart throb
movie actor? Or a brain doctor? Or how about an investment banker? It's
not funny. It's not interesting. And poorly acted. Just plain stupid.
Puke...And it made a lot of money. And is one of the most highly rated
movies. Go figure.

******
9 May 2000
1

Perhaps one of the most overrated movies I have ever seen.  I fear for a
society that adores and embraces a movie without looking beyond the
surface.
This movie is, at its core, a celebration of mediocrity.  Sort of like the
current popularity of "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire," (which lets the
average person feel smart because they can answer easy questions) this
movie
is designed to make the average person feel great about themselves for
being
nothing more than average, just like Forrest.I agree with the comments that infer a fascist or totalitarian subtext to
this movie.  This movie is designed to sedate the viewer into feeling as if
the world is fine and dandy just the way it is, and that they too, without
doing anything at all to improve, educate or enlighten themselves, can be a
"success" without trying.  A satisfied public is easy to control, for
better
or for worse . . .

******
30 April 2005
1
Not being Tom Hanks' greatest fan, I avoided watching this film for
several months after its release. This also gave me time for the hype
to die down a little - but on the back of all the press and several
positive comments I was still expecting to sit down to enjoy a good
movie.I was mistaken. My reward? Two hours of praying for the credits to roll
to take away the pain.To me this movie takes pleasure in displaying everything that is wrong
with the Hollywood film industry - America's need to rewrite history to
suit its own needs, its desire to peddle the "American dream" myth and
the rewards given blindly to any movie that does the above (in the form
of several Oscars - could anyone please explain to me the exceptional
qualities of the movie that put it above anything else released that
year?If only Forrest had kept running... into the sea

******
6 May 2004
1

Everybody talks about how great this movie is.  Will someone tell me why?
So a stupid guy wanders through the world, saying all kinds of stupid
stuff,
chasing a drug addicted stripper, and by blind luck wanders into millions
of
dollars?  Yeah, I can see why that's so popular.  It seems like this movie
would make more sense as an inspirational video for retarded people.Look!  You too can be a success without the unbearable burdens of
intelligence or talent.  All it takes is ridiculous levels of
luck.And what about the years of running?  Years of running?  What is that?
It's
just so ridiculous.  Who does that?  Who?  And people follow him?  "I
don't
feel like running anymore."  You're joking.  Who wrote this because they
should really be crucified.

******
13 November 2003
1

THis movie plain and simply was stupid. There were a couple of laughs
here
and there, but it was carried by the soundtrack. It was like "dumb and
dumber" with better music. It tries to tackle every political and social
issue over the past 50 years. It is a slap in the face to anybody who
lived
through those years to try and bundle them all together. It was not only
corny but long, this movie is the reason that people smoke pot at the
theater! 

******
10 December 1998
1

first of all, I've only seen this movie once, but I was actually very
offended by it.  It takes itself far too seriously.  The commentary embedded
in the film's core, relating to the 60s revolution and drug use in general,
are shockingly naive, reactionary, and simple-minded.  This movie likes to
think that if it can pass itself off as simple, it can pass of its truths as
"simple truths" much like its foggy-headed main character.  Not so.  It's
just simple, in a kind of idiotic way that makes us underestimate the
complexities of our social history (speaking as a 23 year old, what do I
know?, but I've been through a little bit) and come out with a shiny happy
90s answer to all these issues.  This movie is for people who voted for
Reagan.

******
24 February 2002
1

This is one of the most ridiculous and over-hyped movies of all time, and
the sole reason I stopped liking Tom Hanks as an actor. Ridiculous
accents,
too many special effects, unbelievable story. The high point is young
Haley
Joel Osment as Gump Jr, and it's only at the very end of the movie that we
see him.

******
5 November 2005
1
This film clearly falls into the Love/Hate category. I think it's one
where either you like the principle idea of optimism or you detest the
idea that life is simply handed to you and all you have to do is throw
it away.I for one hated this film. Not for the acting, which I didn't rate very
highly, although Sinise put in a good performance in my view, I'm even
a fan of Hanks other work but didn't particularly enjoy his performance
here. No, I hated this film for its message which I found to be so
central and pervasive that I couldn't enjoy any of the rest of the
film's supposed qualities. The message I got from this film was that it
makes no difference what you do in life, no matter how hard you work,
how talented you are or how much you believe, if you just let life go
past you, obey and be good then you will be a huge success. It's a
belief I see more and more and one which I find abhorrent.Strangely enough it seems that this belief is becoming true. Make an
average film with average acting and you too can have a huge box office
success and win multiple Oscars.Perhaps this is then a truly brilliant and ironic piece of work. I
still hated it.

******
11 September 2003
1

Implausible, unbelievably mawkish and sentimental, the high regard that
viewers and reviewers have had for this film baffles me. Nobody should be
forced to watch this trite and smug piece of film-making more than once,
apart from the writer responsible for the "Life is like a box of
chocolates..." line, who, if there is any justice will find himself stuck
in
hell watching it for all eternity.

******
12 June 2008
1
Because my English is not quite up to the task, I'm going to borrow the
words of another reviewer from the UK: "a nauseating piece of
reactionary twaddle". Frankly I couldn't put it better - this is right
wing propaganda at its worst; all the more so because it's wrapped in
(mostly) competent directing and acting (although Gary Sinise's
"performance" is frankly irritating). Sorry let me rephrase and
apologize to right-wing people, who are entitled to their political
views: this movie is (bordering on) fascist propaganda.There is so much to love about America, "Forrest Gump" brings out the
worst in it. An insult to anyone's intelligence - I hope it gets
remembered as the "Leni Riefenstahl's movie" of the Reagan area.

******
10 January 2002
1

I love Tom Hanks, but the fact that film has enjoyed such popularity
seems to me to be a sign of the endless American thirst for the
milk of amnesia.  Anyone who cares about any of the historical
events "depicted" in this film -- especially the war in Vietnam --
ought to be offended.  Anyone from the south ought to be offended,
too, at the way Hanks' and others' southern accents are used as
signifiers of imbecility, and that imbecility then romanticized.  And
lastly, African-Americans ought to be outraged at the way Mykelti
Williamson -- a very fine actor, by the by -- is used to slip the worst
of stereotypes in under the "comic" door.  When we look back fifty
years from now, this will be the "Bedtime for Bonzo" of its
day.#1 on my list of all-time worst films.

******
14 January 2007
1
A movie with this many comments obviously has great resonance. On the
one hand, the movie is technically skillful, well-acted, and used
then-advanced special effects to great advantage. As demonstrated by
the comments here, it has charmed many viewers. On the other, the
movie's values and message are clearly right wing: as many other
reviewers point out, the plot rewards ignorance, unquestioning
obedience, and laissez-faire corporatization (the marks of a good
heart, apparently!), while it trivializes retardation to charm viewers
with a saccharine vision of idiocy as goodness. It provides a
right-wing allegory of recent US history by punishing the free-thinking
Jenny and rewarding the mindless Forrest, named after Nathan Bedford
Forrest, a founder of the Ku Klux Klan. Charming!I share the view of those who not entertained by the movie's right-wing
allegory of Reagan-Bush era know-nothingism and historical blindness.
As another commenter put it, "this is a movie for people who voted for
Reagan" or for the Bushes. Overall, it's a remarkable document of
Reagan-Bush era dominant thinking.So the basic situation with this movie is not too difficult to grasp:
the movie is skillfully made and acted, and the wide success of its
right-wing plot and message demonstrates that the American movie-going
public largely shares these right-wing views.

******
6 June 2002
1

Spoilers aheadI was 15 years old when Forrest Gump was released. I saw it on the
recommendation of a friend and absolutely hated it. The soppy right wing
politics, the greetings card sentiments, the abuse of history, the acting.
I
hated it all. I watched it again recently, now I am more mature I thought
there may be a new meaning to this film that I overlooked first time
around.
I was wrong.
The politics of this film are the most infuriating thing about it. The
idea
that if you're an idiot but you do what you're told then you will be
rewarded, but, if you experience life then you're going to die a miserable
death.
This attitude is also reflected in the scene where Sally Field has sex
with
the school principal in order to keep Forrest in school. The message?
Never
mind your principals or your dignity. Sacrifice whatever it takes to
ensure
you stay on the verge of middle
class "respectability".
Tom Hanks is usually a good actor. Think Big or The Green Mile or even The
'burbs(an extremely overlooked film) but here is performance is a one note
joke. There is no character development, no arc for Forrest.Which brings me to the abuse of history. He meets Presidents, Lennon,
Elvis,
etc.Yet what does he learn from these meetings? Nothing. How does his
character grow and develop? It doesn't. These meetings merely place
emphasis
on the smugness of the filmmakers, they are meaningless, unfunny jokes
that
do not add to the fabric of the story in any way.
The treatment of black characters is much the same. They are reduced to
eye
rolling, offensive stereotypes.
The only people who retain any dignity in the abysmal excuse for a movie
are
Gary Sinese and Robin Wright who both do wonders with under written roles.
Why this film is on the imdb 250 I can't imagine. I only hope it becomes
quickly forgotten.

******
23 June 1999
1

This movie uses all the sappy, sentimental tricks in the book to sucker the
audience into believing in poor, disadvantaged Forrest Gump: the sick
mother, the bad legs, the innocence of incomplete mental capacity, the
bullies, the girlfriend, etc.If that's as far as it went, however, I wouldn't be writing this. The
dangerous thing about this movie is its sweeping generalizations and
stereotypical portrayals of events, groups, and people in recent American
history. Because the filmmakers have succeeded in getting the viewer to
pull
so strongly for Gump, they can then pass off their revisionist version of
the past few decades with little objection from the viewer.Yes, it's just a movie, but images like these shape the way people think.
The anti-war movement in the sixties and seventies and the Black Panthers,
for example, were much more complex than portrayed in this movie. Using
tiny, value-charged episodes to paint with such broad brush strokes, in
settings that are designed to pull the viewer to Gump's side, is deceptive
and manipulative.


******
24 September 2015
10
Some people don't like this film? For the life of me I can't understand
why??Some people don't like Tom Hanks, I don't especially but whatever you
think of him, what a awesome film. It's take you on a journey which
brings joy, sadness, action, love and most of all a message. It's not a film I would put on if I had it on blu-Ray but when it's on
TV I end up watching it and I always think at the end, what a brilliant
film. The story is fantastic, Hank's is simply awesome. It's an instant
classic which everyone should watch and enjoy.

******
13 September 2015
10
It is an amazing movie, words can't describe the writer's great job and
directing in this movie. Fantastic/Provoking are some words i can think
of right now. Definitely a must watch. Forrest Gump is a rare character
we see in which we all fall in love with. His characteristics and his
simple actions will make you be obsessed with this character. The whole
plot is great, mainly the whole story line is great. Tells a story from
beginning to end. Robert Zemeckis does it again, an instant classic
that can be remembered, probably once of Zemeckis's best work in his
entire career. I would say it is appropriate for all audiences and
teaches great life lessons as well.

******
13 September 2015
10
This is a beautiful film that deals with many major social issues as
well as giving the audience a tour of the past. Tom Hanks gives his
character so much life and brings us a whole new level of
entertainment. The acting is spot on and manages to pull your heart
strings on so many levels. Gary Sinise's character has always been my
favorite character besides Forrest as he brings such a deep presence in
to the film, you feel very sorry for him as you follow him through the
movie and learn his story. One of the key things I enjoyed about this
was the fact that it included so many historical events and managed to
bend the story to fit within them, the use of the CGI was nicely done
and really gave you that sense of realism. If you are looking for a
romantic comedy which educates and leaves you reaching for the tissues
this is certainly the film for you 10/10 I would recommend.

******
8 September 2015
10
I thought this movie was the best movie ever that I ever seen. This
movie tells a great story. I thought Tom Hanks does a great performance
in this movie. He makes Forest's life into a great story. This movie
takes you through his life and what he went through. His story deals
with him having a diablity with his legs when he is young, when he
first fells in love, when he went to join the army, and just how his
whole life was a journey. This movie will just inspire you because of
his story. The story behind Forest Gump is amazing and it shows you how
if you listen to a stranger or a close friend everyone has a story, and
sometimes your be susprise about the story they share.

******
8 September 2015
9
This film brings us the story of Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), a southern
young man with a little mental retardation that, despite don't allow
him to be the top in his class, cannot deprive him of the innate
goodness that brings in his heart. Owner of a large sympathy and
gentleness, maintains an imperishable love for Jenny (Robin Wright), a
childhood friend who will lead a very different life from his. Directed
by Robert Zemeckis, features Eric Roth's script based on a novel by
Winston Groom.This is perhaps one of the most moving films of the nineties, and a
turning point in Tom Hanks' career, which entered its maturity phase,
already visible in the film who filmed before this one ("Philadelfia").
And it's very difficult not to feel an immediate empathy for his
character, which constantly shows great kindness and sympathy towards
all. Forrest, always running, will watch and even take part in many
important moments in the recent history of America without, however,
set aside his goodness. It's like he passed through life but remained
so pure that worldly vices couldn't affect him. Jenny, his love, will
follow a different path that will determine the fate of the link
between both.A love can last forever, even without seeing the beloved? Can a person
live a love that is pure and without malice? This film is especially
dedicated to those who still believe in that.

******
26 August 2015
10
I love this movie and Tom Hanks did a wonderful job as Gump. I
recommend watching it at least once in your life! I used to have a
tradition with myself that I would watch it every year at my
grandparents beach house before they sold it. I was a dedicated fan!
"Life is like a box of chocolates and you never know what you're gonna
get." Boy, was he right! This movie was a trip the first time I saw
this! All I have to say is watch this movie and love every second of
it. You sure won't regret it! Tom Hanks is the man and I love
Lieutenant Dan and Bubba Gump! Jenny just keeps on doing Gump so wrong
and he lets it happen!

******
22 May 2015
10
To all of you guys who haven't seen this movie - go for it. Story,
Acting, Camera & Music - it's a fantastic piece of work and true art.
Probably the best character of Tom Hanks for all time. I first saw it
when I was quite young, but it already made me think about life and
tit's true calling. So without telling you anything from the story, you
should know than it might make you cry. Although I love Action Movies I
really enjoy this one without having any really interesting fight
scenes (except the war in Vietnam) - but that's not what this movie is
about. It's simply a journey from a simple man's life to your own
life...

******
24 March 2015
10
Forrest Gump is a simple man from Alabama who lives an extra ordinary
life.This is my highest rated film of all time. A movie that can be watched
over and over. Tom Hanks becomes Forrest Gump. You never feel like you
are watching an actor. He is superbly backed with stellar roles by Gary
Sinise (Lt Dan Taylor) and Robin Wright (Jenny).The soundtrack to Forrest Gump is classic. As the story plays out it
captures pivotal moments in American history. The cinematography is
stunning, with the perfect track for every scene delivered by Creedence
Clearwater Revival, Elvis Presley, Fleetwood Mac and the list goes on.The greatest film ever made.

******
15 September 2014
7
Somehow, I had not seen this movie when it first came out. I guess it
became so big so quickly that it gave me some pause. Everything I had
heard about it made me feel that it was going to be one of those
cloying, hyper-sentimental Oscar-baits that come out late in the year.
After the safe distance of 20 years - and almost as a bet with a friend
- I finally got around to seeing it. While I probably didn't hate it as
much as I would have in 1994, I still don't understand why it was such
a phenomenon in 1994 (were the movies really that bad in the 90s?). I
still don't think of it as highly original; it certainly has very
strong echoes of "Being There" and "Zelig" (and it certainly is not a
good sign when a movie reminds you of so many other, better movies).
Overall it is a pretty competent bit of film-making with decent acting
(though you can see the seams of the "acting").

******
4 September 2014
7
I just saw this one. Though it was corny and I can see why many
disliked it, I couldn't stop laughing. Whether the jokes were good or
bad, I laughed and that is good enough for me to call it good. I was
surprised as well by how well done it was. The quality was excellent. I
guess if I was in a bad mood, this movie wouldn't be half as good, but
I thought it to be enjoyable and would recommend it for the parents and
kids to enjoy. Granted, everything in it is historically incorrect but
that's the fun part! I give Tom Hanks a lot of credit for making this a
good flick, but I wouldn't go so far as to say it was the best movie of
all time and a beautiful piece of art, but a movie doesn't have to be
beautiful to be good.

******
1 July 2014
9
One of the worlds greatest movies and I really liked it. I have nothing
more to write so now just nonsense. USAF disaffected rigidify caved
Jojo Dick Mojave Kass Ia Kain Aviv five univ Hedvig advocated Kaifeng
unhook Iggy UHF Lola hag Forest Noe y7d ump panted 5u6i 66gh desk Olga
dad Jud taps Keir ferric argue has-pi defame adieu heaps Omaha effusive
Seka ump AP Argo oafs pique hoof effacer Hapgood ergo hippo chef Ho of
overhear FHA Elihu headscarf ennui Felipa chef equip Elihu weighs
awkward weigh hodgepodge ahem reweigh pique chef aweigh pouffes Europe
paw FHA edify equipage equal overhang equine hough Fukuoka FUD VHF
Uighur effect FHA Fromm syncope Heep forgetive evacuative expo Kharkov
urned equivocally Fiji efface feed pouffe ewe if-uh WWI ghat fief UPI
Keefe Ewing hawked fews Uighur pug agave THE END

******
17 June 2014
10
Forrest Gump is probably one of the most well known films of all time.
By now it is a classic of cinematic history. To talk about this movie
in anyway would be futile, because everyone has their opinion on it by
now. It is an excellent film, but I feel it is a bit over-hyped. Since
everyone has seen it, its popularity is astounding. The acting is
great, the cinematography is outstanding, the story original and
interesting. It is quite a long film, but that is cast out by the
enjoyment of the film. Tom Hanks brings a magnificent performance, as
to be expected. There is not much to talk about this film, so I will
leave it at that.

******
11 June 2014
6
This may be a good story.. the rise and rise of a character-from a
sportsman to a soldier to a millionaire- who has an IQ lesser than that
needed to get admitted in a state school- where he gets bullied and
meets his love of life. This character graph has inspired many
Bollywood filmmakers (Rajkumar Hirani, Karan Johar in particular) to
sketch their characters, and they have milked their stories with enough
drama too. I turned upon this film after watching its Bollywood
inspirations. But I wasn't looking for any (melo)drama; but subtlety,
of course, which, in my opinion, this film lacked. Lacking subtlety is
not a problem but hammering with details being blurted out in voice
over is, for me. The overdose of voice-over narration concerns me
here... it gives too much of unnecessary information which aren't
contributing anything to the narrative or the plot or either emotional
value, and many of the details are just repeated twice for no
particular reason. And this voice-over is not even breaking the fourth
wall but is a narration to strangers. He meets these strangers at a
bus-stop and they happen to change from time to time, just like the
visitors at the home his mom had let for. (Such symbolism, if you call
it one, work.) He starts his story quoting his 'mama' (and to count how
many times this Mama's boy calls her out could be one irritating game
for viewers). This grown up man taking us into the flashback of his
childhood never came across to me as a sympathetic one though the
film's 'feather light' treatment (also embodied as a symbolism in the
film) worked in many tight scenes but at the same time looked desperate
in demanding emotion and sympathy from the audience. (Even that white
feather hitting the screen with a whoosh at the end came across as- "Oh
look, we hit you so hard with such a heartwarming and light story").
Maybe I'm too cynical but the character, Forrest Gump, looked to me as
a dumb throughout. And over-usage of the quote "An idiot is as idiot
does" made him look more. And I totally get that the point of the film
was to look the cynical world from the prism of an unintelligent man
that would make it look more simpler and a winning place, but all I'm
saying that this could have been said differently, more beautifully and
overwhelmingly and obviously, with some subtlety.Also I'm not asking to take away its classic status. The way the film
depicts and incorporates American history, its thriving new culture and
counterculture into its storytelling deserves to be acknowledged and
that would have surely helped to achieve this status. The music score is indeed beautiful. But only if the director had
realized that it's also about the 'sight' and not only 'sound', he
would have deployed a more focused and centered cinematographer to work
who would add his bit to the narrative.What worries me is that how did a film so repetitive and monotonous in
its narration and tone with no powerful visual storytelling win Best
Screenplay and Editing awards at the Oscars! But again what overwhelms
me is the fact that this film which used visual effects as a
requirement and not a motif to tell a story won the Oscar for Best
Visual Effects!

******
5 June 2014
9
best movie in the entire world if you have never seen this then you
have no life. TOM HANKS IS AMAZING. YOU. NEED. TO. WATCH. THIS. BEST.
MOVIE. EVER. YOU. NEED. TO. WATCH. THIS. Immediately. I only wanted to
write a small review but it says it need to be more then ten lines long
like what kind of review is this? I wanted it to be short and sour and
now it's long and sour. stupid IMDb STILL AN AWESOME WEBSITE I GO ON
EVER DAY got to check those birthdays everyday. lines are so big and
long and boring don't read this I have no idea why I'm still typing I
could be doing better things like read wattpad or talk about fifty
shades of grey with my friends BEST BOOK EVER! I'm fifthteen by the way
I shouldn't be reading books like that but I am HAHAHAH READ FOREST
GUMP TOM HANKS WILL MAKE YOU ALL HOT AND BOTHERED IN IT WATCH THIS
MOVIE OR I WILL HAUNT YOUR DREAMS WITH SEXUAL Christian GREY BY MY SIDE
WITH HIS FLOGGER

******
24 February 2014
10
I've never met anyone like Forrest Gump in a movie before, and for that
matter I've never seen a movie quite like "Forrest Gump." Any attempt
to describe him will risk making the movie seem more conventional than
it is, but let me try. It's a comedy, I guess. Or maybe a drama. Or a
dream.The screenplay by Eric Roth has the complexity of modern fiction, not
the formulas of modern movies. Its hero, played by Tom Hanks, is a
thoroughly decent man with an IQ of 75, who manages between the 1950s
and the 1980s to become involved in every major event in American
history. And he survives them all with only honesty and niceness as his
shields.And yet this is not a heartwarming story about a mentally retarded man.
That cubbyhole is much too small and limiting for Forrest Gump. The
movie is more of a meditation on our times, as seen through the eyes of
a man who lacks cynicism and takes things for exactly what they are.
Watch him carefully and you will understand why some people are
criticized for being "too clever by half." Forrest is clever by just
exactly enough.Tom Hanks may be the only actor who could have played the role.I can't think of anyone else as Gump, after seeing how Hanks makes him
into a person so dignified, so straight-ahead. The performance is a
breathtaking balancing act between comedy and sadness, in a story rich
in big laughs and quiet truths.Forrest is born to an Alabama boardinghouse owner (Sally Field) who
tries to correct his posture by making him wear braces, but who never
criticizes his mind. When Forrest is called "stupid," his mother tells
him, "Stupid is as stupid does," and Forrest turns out to be incapable
of doing anything less than profound. Also, when the braces finally
fall from his legs, it turns out he can run like the wind.That's how he gets a college football scholarship, in a life story that
eventually becomes a running gag about his good luck. Gump the football
hero becomes Gump the Medal of Honor winner in Vietnam, and then Gump
the Ping-Pong champion, Gump the shrimp boat captain, Gump the
millionaire stockholder (he gets shares in a new "fruit company" named
Apple Computer), and Gump the man who runs across America and then
retraces his steps.It could be argued that with his IQ of 75 Forrest does not quite
understand everything that happens to him. Not so. He understands
everything he needs to know, and the rest, the movie suggests, is just
surplus. He even understands everything that's important about love,
although Jenny, the girl he falls in love with in grade school and
never falls out of love with, tells him, "Forrest, you don't know what
love is." She is a stripper by that time.The movie is ingenious in taking Forrest on his tour of recent American
history. The director, Robert Zemeckis, is experienced with the magic
that special effects can do (his credits include the "Back To The
Future" movies and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit"), and here he uses
computerized visual legerdemain to place Gump in historic situations
with actual people.Forrest stands next to the schoolhouse door with George Wallace, he
teaches Elvis how to swivel his hips, he visits the White House three
times, he's on the Dick Cavett show with John Lennon, and in a sequence
that will have you rubbing your eyes with its realism, he addresses a
Vietnam-era peace rally on the Mall in Washington. Special effects are
also used in creating the character of Forrest's Vietnam friend Lt. Dan
(Gary Sinise), a Ron Kovic type who quite convincingly loses his legs.Using carefully selected TV clips and dubbed voices, Zemeckis is able
to create some hilarious moments, as when LBJ examines the wound in
what Forrest describes as "my butt-ox." And the biggest laugh in the
movie comes after Nixon inquires where Forrest is staying in
Washington, and then recommends the Watergate. (That's not the laugh,
just the setup.) As Forrest's life becomes a guided tour of
straight-arrow America, Jenny (played by Robin Wright) goes on a
parallel tour of the counterculture. She goes to California, of course,
and drops out, tunes in, and turns on. She's into psychedelics and
flower power, antiwar rallies and love-ins, drugs and needles.
Eventually it becomes clear that between them Forrest and Jenny have
covered all of the landmarks of our recent cultural history, and the
accommodation they arrive at in the end is like a dream of
reconciliation for our society. What a magical movie.

******
19 February 2014
10
When I saw "Forest Gump" I was amazed, it blew me away. I cried at
times and I laughed at times. It had everything a film really needs,
drama, sadness, laughter. Tom Hanks had a great performance. The story
is about a man/boy who has grown up being bullied because he wears
metal stilts on his legs, but one day he met a girl and she changed his
life. I took the stilts of and started to run and he kept running. It
was like he was at every event in his lifetime. He wasn't getting good
grades at school but in his own way Forest is a genius. I recommend
this film, because I guaranty you will enjoy it. You will cry and
laugh, you will watch this.

******
15 February 2014
9
This movie will always be a classic. It really tugs at your
heartstrings and makes you care about Forrest. There's moments when you
feel sorry for him but every negative Forrest turns it into a positive.
Sometimes life maybe easier with a simpler existence and an always look
on the bright side attitude. Sometimes you envy Forrest and the fact
that he is happy with every success he obtains. There will always be
haters who can't move on from their abysmal lives but there are always
plenty of good souls out there to maintain the balance.This is definitely a must-watch movie that ages very well. It never
feels like I'm watching a good old dated film, it feels like I'm
watching a completely relevant movie. I cannot recommend it enough.

******
7 February 2014
3
This is the kind of movie they make you watch when your in high school.
Like close to the end of the school year and the teachers are looking
to kill some time, so whip out the school TV and DVD player press play
and disappear for two hours. Forrest Gump reminds me how far American
public schools have fallen, surely those hypothetical teachers could
have found a better movie to show. Look hard through the school
library's pile of DVD's, there has got to be something better than
Forrest Gump, wait what was that, Barbarella? Yeah you can show fifteen
year-olds Barbarella, it only has tittie at the beginning Romeo And
Juliet has more nudity, fine, not Barbarella, what about that Charlie's
Angels 2, well of course its garbage but its watchable....

******
10 January 2014
10
this movie, i first saw on my local TV program,and because of that, i
did not have ANY expectations.It began with kid that had bad spine... not something that would i
usually want to watch,but i was bored,had nothing else to do or watch
,so i watched it.i don't want to spoil a really good movie,so i will just say,5 years
have past sense i first ,and one time watched this movie,butt strangely
(or not so strange after all) i remember almost every frame of the
movie,and i remember all the emotions i felt.Forest Gummp...what a character,what a movie!to think there are people like Forest,genuiely good people...makes me
wanna slap myself ... you get the point.now i must write 10 lines,butt i think i said everything i wanted about
this movie,so i will just write on,and on,and on.

******
26 December 2013
10
One of the best movies I ever seen. This movie changes the moods and
aspirations!. A craft which is made out in detail perfection!. A
magical script with a wonderful treatment!. Cinematography and Back
ground score highlighted the movie to its peak.The dramatic element and
the movie go hand in hand.The director follows the characters.So the
camera movements!!. Actors were awesome !.Tom Hanks is the only actor I
can see in this role.His performance is Mind blowing , making a
definite balance with comedy and sadness.Despite his sub-normal IQ,
Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a ringside seat for many of the
most memorable events of the second half of the 20th century. Its
really gives an in depth of emotions!.No wonder it creates the land
mark!.

******
6 October 2012
8
Forrest Gump happens to be a film that took off, up and away very
easily, and it's not hard to see why. As much as it was a very good
effort, you can't help but to feel the whole idea is slightly over
hyped.The best elements of Forrest Gump is 2 things. Firstly, the excellent
performances by the actors. Tom Hanks and the rest of the cast were
brilliant. Secondly, the many representation of historical facts weaved
into the plot. That being said, it's somewhat understandable, albeit contradictory,
why this movie is being rated so highly among viewers. It's nice to
watch a movie every once in a while, where everything falls into place
perfectly, and no one really wants to question the sheer oddity of it
all. Forrest Gump is a good example of that. The good performance by
Tom Hanks alone undoubtedly is enough for the many to drench this movie
in praise. The problem for me then becomes this. Knowing this movie is
definitely at least a good movie, what's stopping it from becoming
great? I think it falls short of giving us the ultimate sense of
profoundness and awe by the end. It does, though, but not as profound
as other movies from that decade, say The Green Mile (making this
comparison since many claim Gump to be one of the best movies out
there, it's only fitting to compare it to another heavyweight, nothing
to do with Tom Hanks being in both). I also feel Gump, at times within
the movie, has moments of drop and stagnation within the plot. It
doesn't continually escalate with time. Usually in movies it's not a
problem, or sometimes necessary, but in Gump, these lapses of
stagnation can seem almost endless and perhaps a tad bit overused. I
will give this movie credit for the acting and for the way it captures
the counter-cultures, lifestyles and many nuances of the up and coming
USA. It does a good job pacing us through these many historical
elements, and has its moments leaving the audience at awe.But I remained convinced a silent minority out there share my opinion
on how this movie, despite being a very good effort, isn't as awesome
as everyone makes it to be. It could be one of the best movies of the
decade, but definitely not the best. 7.7 on my scales. A very good
effort. Nothing more.

******
20 February 2012
10
Forrest Gump achieves a Rockwellian canvas without being head in the
clouds about America. Beyond the great pleasure of following Forrest
through his storied life, a protagonist neither long on intellect nor
burdened by it, the depth of the all around character development has
me completely absorbed from beginning to end. It is really something
special for a protagonist to have four relationships so well
cultivated. I also consider it the best cinematic treatment of the
Vietnam War. The nobility and absurdity of it is evinced.Well deserving of its many accolades in one of cinema's best years, the
film blends humor and pathos perfectly. It creates a world for itself
whereby the few poetic licenses do not detract from the experience. I
find no fault in it. It doesn't even have a notable production mistake.
Bubba Gump Shrimp Co. restaurants are nice, too! Simply put, Forrest is pure innocence, free of pretense and
calculation. A great character unlike any other I have known. I was
recently delighted to screen the film for someone who had not seen it,
so it is to such people, however few they are, that I address this
review.

******
19 February 2012
9
My first time watching Forrest Gump was this past Saturday, and I left
my media room feeling, well, Gumpish. Meaning, I felt like I was
Forrest Gump. I talked to my brother in a sort of Forrest Gump accent,
and when we went downstairs to discuss the movie like we usually do, we
felt it was proper to get out what else than a box of chocolates. Now,
hearing quotes from this film my whole life, I knew I had to see this
movie soon. After weeks of waiting for it to arrive from Blockbuster, I
finally got it on Blu-ray. That night though, we were gonna watch
Chronicle, a new movie that seemed pretty cool to watch. My father said
fine, but my brother said he'd rather not waste another day from
Forrest Gump, for he wanted to get this film over with so he could have
felt that same sensation that almost everyone else in America has felt.
So we went home, popped in the disc, and started to watch. And it was
definitely at my high expectations. At the end, I had experienced
Forrest Gump, and I can only say one thing; I was pleased. Yes indeed,
Forrest Gump was fantastic film, with great acting and a great story
just like everyone had told me so. Tom Hanks blew me away as a sort of
"disabled", you could say, man who spends his whole life wanting one
girl named Jenny, his childhood sweetheart. Not many words can describe
the brilliancy in his acting, but the fact that he won for Best Lead
Actor at the Academy Awards should some it up. The many adventures he
had running through America, fighting in the Vietnamese war, hopping
into China to play ping-pong, raising a shrimp fishing empire, and
especially chasing the girl of his dreams made this film fully
brilliant and gave Tom Hanks a chance to take his character to full
heights. My favorite part about the film, though, had to be Lieutenant
Dan Taylor. Gay Sinise played his role, and received an Academy Award
nomination for his role, and definitely deserved it. I wasn't expecting
a character like his anywhere in this film, for he was so dark and
corrupted later in the film. He first arrives in my favorite part of
the film, in the Vietnam war which had an epic battle scene. Over
there, he was supposed to die with honor, but Forrest Gump saves his
life from the hand of war, and Taylor loses his legs. Throughout the
film, he lives of booze and regrets his life and hates Gump, but later
learn to work together. A strange friendship is made, and that is
another beautiful part of this film. The editing in this film was
spectacular, for there are many scenes in which Gump arrives in famous
footage of America. The only problem I had was the dubbing, for that
was bit off and edgy. I also felt the film was bit unrealistic at
parts, like when he's child and he starts to run and suddenly his back
is fixed. The only explanation for that in the whole film was that it
was a "miracle". Also some parts were unnecessary and only for comedic
use in such an epic, broad film, and it kind of ruins the moment. This
film, though, still was at the height of my expectations. But it wasn't
any higher, just perfect, so I kinda already knew how I was supposed to
feel at the end of the movie; emotional. The only problem though was
that I didn't feel very emotionally invested in the film at all, and
just looked at it from a sense of enjoyment. So, that's why this film
deserves a 9. It was very good at many aspects except a few, but if it
wanted to get a 10, it should've felt me emotionally, which it didn't.In the end, Forrest Gump is a masterpiece with great acting, excellent
character development, and a broad plot line, but not much emotional
feel(depends on whose watching, though) and a few flaws. All in all,
this is an excellent film of the 90s and a story to behold.9/10 A

******
17 February 2012
9
The character Forrest Gump inspires me to push my limits and to do my
best.Forrest has many limitations that would normally hold him back his
whole life long. He has trouble walking and has to use leg braces and
crutches. But when he has to run away from a gang of bullies, his
braces unexpectedly fall away and he finds himself outrunning the
bullies. This is the first time he has ever run. Forrest understands he
has special abilities and that he must use them wisely. Jenny screams,
"Run, Forrest, run." This admonition echoes at other crucial moments in
Forrest's life. Forrest has a low IQ. He is nearly turned away from public school
because his entry exam score is so much lower than that of any of the
other students. He only manages to enter after his mother "befriends"
the director of the school. He struggles throughout school, but to
everyone's surprise, he is accepted into a famous university on an
American football scholarship because he easily outruns the opposing
players as he carries the football to score a touchdown. While in the
army, Forrest is considered a genius by his superiors because he works
well under pressure, follows orders and doesn't complain. Forrest deeply cares about the people in his life. While in the army,
he constantly remembers his mom and Jenny and writes to them regularly.
Another recruit in the army, a big black man named Bubba, becomes
Forrest's first best friend and Forrest looks out for Bubba until the
end. Forrest Gump is determined to succeed in his life despite tremendous
odds. As I watch Forrest Gump struggle to overcome his limits, I feel
hopeful that I, too, can overcome the obstacles that come up in my own
life.

******
2 February 2012
10
It almost seems pointless to write a review for this movie because by
now I would like to hope that everyone in the world has seen this film.
This is truly one of the greatest films ever made because it explores
many important events in American history and explores the life a
seemingly slightly retarded young man who manages to make out in life
even when all odds were against him. The filming is fantastic
throughout the film as is the sound and the orchestra. The orchestra
actually does a lot in the film, just the sounds of the violins and the
moments that the orchestra plays seems to bring audiences to tears.
It's really unexplainable how touching this movie is, honestly anyone
if you're reading a review and have never seen this movie I advise you
to watch the movie and you will love it. Nothing is more heartbreaking
then the ending of this story so if your not one to like tear-jerkers
steer clear because even as a tall muscular man I still break down in
tears every single time. I'm honestly surprised this movie isn't rated a solid 9.5, I give it a
10 because everything about it is perfect, it's got probably the
biggest Hollywood actor of modern time starring in it (Tom Hanks), and
truly is a phenomenal movie.

******
31 January 2012
9
I believe that Forrest Gump had the criteria for a great movie
including its plot, characters, rating, and graphics. The plot is one
everyone can relate to. The plot consists of someone not fitting in and
breaking through the standards that people placed on him and finding
his true love. The actors that are playing these roles could not have
been more perfect. Forrest is an average man with a very low IQ but he
has an optimistic view of the world. Tom Hanks plays Forrest and he
plays it well. Along with Mykelti Williamson playing Forrest's very
good friend Bubba Blue. There are many actors and characters in the
movie, but every role was successfully played out to its full
potential. The rating on this site is an 8.7 out of 10. This rating is
an accurate one because it reflects not just what one or two people
think of it, but a multitude of people. The movie won six academy
awards including best picture. An 8.7 is a good rating, it could be
even higher for the amount of awards it got and how many people loved
it. The graphics, for when the film was made, were great. The war
scenes, the presidential scenes, and the segment with Elvis Presley and
all the other famous characters, were portrayed well. It made the movie
seem less fictional and more relatable. With the great plot, awesome
characters, accurate rating, and exciting graphics, the movie Forrest
Gump is a must-see.

******
26 January 2012
10
This is one of the most uplifting and moving movies in modern cinematic
history. I absolutely loved it. How could you not love this movie. We
have Forrest Gump, not the smartest guy on the world, with an I.Q.
below average, yet we see the world through his eyes. And he is in many
imortant world events, e.g., the Vietnam war, meeting the president and
so on and so forth. And he has influenced many people to follow their
dreams. I have seen this movie so many times, and it is one of my all
time favourites. Easily Tom Hanks' best film role. And Hands off to
Gary Sinise for his role as Lieutenant Dan. Forrest Gump is a very fine
piece of filmmaking.

******
16 January 2012
8
The book this movie was based on, which I haven't read, was more
satirical in tone, which explains the basic concept of a simpleton
managing to have such great influence on American politics and culture
without being aware of it. His childhood leg problem inspires Elvis
Presley, he unintentionally mocks Lyndon Johnson's showing off his
surgery scar, he goes to Maoist China to play Ping-Pong, he
unintentionally starts the 1970's jogging fad, etc. The book's story
was purposely contrived; the movie plays everything straight.As for those who claim the movie glorifies stupidity, the phrase
"Stupid is as stupid does" has a more honest message, namely that
stupidity isn't an inability to think but an unwillingness to. As for
the movie's uncomplimentary view of the counterculture, there was
plenty of bad as well as good about the 1960's-divisiveness, racial and
other hatred, violence, the spread of venereal diseases, etc. But not
only the left gets skewered. Remember the scene where the legless Dan
described being told he could "walk with Jesus"?The acting serves to make the movie work, just as Monty Python's comedy
worked by everyone being able to play it all straight.

******
1 January 2012
10
I am 23 years old (2012) and I cannot believe it took me so long to
watch this movie. After watching this, i felt something that i have
never felt before in my life!enough about me, lets get to the movie. I though this movie was one of
Hanks' best, if not the best, performances. everything he did or said
was 100% believable, a lot of the story was very... how can i put it,
improbable in the real world but he played it so convincingly that i
did not, even for a moment, felt it was actually a movie. it was like
someone telling their life story. only with that funny accent.I recommend this film to anyone, anyone with any taste to watch this
movie. if you are feeling down, in need of aspiration or have 140
minutes to kill. believe me it'll be the best 2 and a bit hours of your
life.

******
28 December 2011
10
Forrest Gump is an epic comedy-drama romance film based on the 1986
novel of the same name by Winston Groom. It was directed by Robert
Zemeckis and it stars Tom Hanks on the title role together Robin Wright
and Gary Sinise.The supporting cast also include Sally Field as Mrs
Gump,Mykelti Williamson and Haley Joel Osment.The screenplay by Eric
Roth depicts several decades in the life of Forrest Gump, a native of
Alabama who experiences firsthand, and contributes to, some of the
defining events of the latter half of the 20th century while being
largely unaware of their significance due to his below-average
intelligence."Stupid is as stupid does," says Forrest Gump as he discusses his
relative level of intelligence with a stranger while waiting for a bus.
Despite his sub-normal IQ, Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a
ringside seat for many of the most memorable events of the second half
of the 20th century. Entirely without trying, Forrest teaches Elvis
Presley to dance, becomes a football star, meets John F. Kennedy,
serves with honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks at an
anti-war rally at the Washington Monument, hangs out with the Yippies,
defeats the Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard Nixon,
discovers the break-in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping
business, becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides
to run back and forth across the country for several years. Meanwhile,
as the remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets
Jenny, the girl he loved as a boy, who makes her own journey through
the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more troubled than
the path Forrest happens upon.This is a sentimental film with sweetness and charm are occasionally
enough to approximate true depth and grace.Although Roth's screenplay
may somewhat look implausible as it is a chronicle of the long journey
taken by a slow-witted boy through American history and politics,it
definitely would provide sympathy to any viewer watching this film.Tom
Hanks rose to the occasion with his unforgettable performance as
Forrest Gump by providing high-caliber performance. This film simply
belongs in company of such sweet classics as Rain Man and Harvey for it
is moving,compelling and simply wonderful.And most of all,it is truly a
masterpiece.

******
28 December 2011
10
Tom Hank's second Oscar was rewarded to him for his role as the title
character in the 1995 Best Picture winner Forrest Gump; a performance
that I'd rank up with his other Oscar winning performance in
"Philadelphia" as his career's best. Forrest Gump is a simple man
(Arguably suffering from Aspergers Syndrome) who has been to many
places, and has been unintentionally present at important points in
history. We meet him as he sits on a bus bench, waiting for the bus
that we learn is going to take him to meet his childhood sweetheart
Jenny - the one thing Forrest has chased all through his life. Forrest
tells his life story up until this point to the people sitting next to
him, a life that began in Alabama where he was an awkward kid with a
very low IQ score, up until his ability to run very fast got him
accepted into college on a football scholarship and later on to the All
American team where he got to meet the president, up until his tour of
duty fighting in the Vietnam War and his subsequent feelings and
successes afterwards. This well crafted story based on the novel by
Winstom Groom (Which I've heard is a very complex novel) and based off
a brilliant screenplay written by Eric Roth, and directed by "Back to
the Future" director Robert Zemeckis, captures a very interesting time
period in American history, particularly the Vietnam War and the
consequences of it on society and culture. Forrest Gump is arguably one
of the most iconic characters of the last twenty years, and is nearly a
household name at this stage. Tom Hanks is brilliant as him, and he is
backed by brilliant performances from Sally Field as Forrest's mother,
Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan who is Forrest's crazy platoon leader in
Vietnam, and later becomes his best friend, and Robin Wright as Jenny.
Aside from the brilliant story and acting, the visuals are impressive,
especially in the war scenes and also in the TV footage where Forrest
meets President Keenedy, Nixon and John Lennon. Their voices and lip
movements are real authentic and very well done, and Hanks is blended
very well into these scenes. Even after countless viewings over the
years, "Forrest Gump" still maintains it's magic, and is without a
doubt one of the best movies I've ever seen.

******
3 December 2011
10
This is one of the best movies made. The story, the characters, the
flow, the humor, the wisdom, was just outstanding. All these different
elements of filmmaking worked so organically. It is a film that leaves
you uplifted. It truly deserved all the Oscars it won. Tom Hanks gave a career best performance. Historic events were never
treated the way the have been in this film. You see it from the
perspective of Forrest Gump who doesn't realize what is happening, and
just goes with the flow. But for the viewer the contrast of someone
like him in some of America's darker events is clear. Without preaching
it is a comment on what America is. But what rises above everything is
sincerity and love. Forrest may not have a high IQ, but he sure has a
lot of those two things.

******
26 November 2011
10
Honestly, how can you hate 'Forrest Gump?' The movie is packed with
comedy, romance, drama, action, and almost everything else! It's the
tale of a below-average American boy, and his life growing up through
one of the craziest times in American history, with everything from the
birth of worldwide rock star Elvis Presley, to the Civil Rights
Movement of the 60's, and the new technology in the late 70's-early
80's. Forrest as a character is so simplistic that you cannot help
yourself and love him. This movie should be on your top 10 MUST SEES if
you haven't yet. I'm gonna watch it again tonight for the 8th time and
I'll still love it!

******
26 November 2011
10
Robert Zemeckis's loose adaptation of Winston Groom's satirical novel
still remains one of the most talked about films of the '90s. The irony
and satire of the novel is still there, but Hanks's performance and
Zemeckis's direction is what makes it beautiful. One of the best
sentimental films of all time! Zemeckis weaves Hanks into archive
footage and his combination of satire and sentimentality is what makes
this masterpiece so beautiful and effective. It's a beautiful story and
has Zemeckis's signature visual creativity for good measure. I could
not hold back the tears at the arguably beautiful ending and I doubt
few can.

******
11 November 2011
10
This movie made me cry. It is so beautifully made. The story is unique
and interesting, and you will never get bored. I can definitely
recommend this movie to everybody! It is no action movie, nor a
thriller, it is a great drama for everybody. Nobody can hate this! My
favorite movie. We go through many big events in this movie, as if
we're there ourself. How they pictured the famous persons I have no
idea. It is amazingly done.All in all, I give this movie 10/10, because there's nothing bad to say
about it. It touched me more than any other movie i've ever watched.
Even thought I prefer horror and thrillers, action and movies with a
fast and less deep story, they cannot compete here.

******
12 July 2011
9
1994 was probably one of the best years for movies, at least from the
movie's I've seen. Pretty much every movie I've seen from that year was
great, and for me, the best of all those good movies was Forrest Gump.
Now some people say this movie wasn't that good, and didn't deserve
best picture against other movie's like Pulp Fiction and Shashank
Redemption. Well I tried, I tried really hard, to nitpick this movie,
find any flaw, and I found so few that they are probably barely worth
mentioning.Sometimes Jenny could come off a bit unlikable, like, why does she
continue to leave Forrest and come back to him, just to tease him. I've
heard some people complain about the moral, saying it's OK to be stupid
because eventually you'll be good at something, or something like that.
Personally I see it as don't let disability's get you down, you can do
anything no matter what, also God is good.This movie gives you almost everything, you want comedy it has comedy,
you want action it has action, romance, drama, historical fiction, even
a little bit of fantasy. As long as you aren't looking for sci-fi or
horror, this movie will give you something. It looks great, the
production design transport you back to the middle of the twentieth
century. And the special effects are phenomenal, and the best part,
they aren't noticeable. Seriously you would be surprised how much of
this movie used special effects. The acting is great, Tom Hanks giving
the best performance of his career, the direction is great, and the
writing is fantastic. It sort of gives a history lessong while being
hilarious at the same time.Forrest Gump is just one of those movie that is almost perfect, it came
out in a year of great movies, and managed to be the best.

******
8 July 2011
10
Forrest Gump is a magnificent movie with an extremely well developed
storyline,an outstanding cast and absolutely terrific character
development.The movie is without a doubt one of my favourite films of
all time,it is a very inspiring film to anyone trying to get in to this
business,there are so many memorable scenes and quotes.Tom Hanks
performance is probably his finest,which is really saying a lot,he
really becomes his character beyond the point that you feel like he is
acting.So much happens in this movie but it manages to never feel
scattered or rushed,which seemed hard to pull off when we follow a mans
childhood,love life,time in Vietnam,etc.,in the space of only two hours
and twenty minutes.Forrest Gump is a brilliant movie and there really
isn't anything else like it,I would recommend it to all moviegoers. An unworldly man is present at a series of historic events of the 20th
century,without ever quite realising.Best Performance: Tom Hanks Worst Performance: Peter Dobson

******
12 January 2011
10
Forrest Gump is possibly one the greatest movies of all-time. Like many
people, I have seen it many times. Like many others, the famous quotes
from the movie are installed in my brain. Like many others, I deem this
as one of my favorites movies ever. Why is it so good? Many good
reasons. One for sure is the natural entity of Forrest. He may seem a
dumb guy who can't think 'logically' but he has a good heart. He has a
good intentions and people recognize that. People love to see someone
who has an ability to look by all the bad events which happen in the
life. Forrest brings that kind of peace and aplomb which people need in
their life. People need to have hope. And Forrest shows that if there's
an attitude, there is always hope for good things. Good things happen
to good people.Tom Hanks is one the best actors. His peak was in 90's and this is his
masterpiece. He'll be always remembered as Forrest Gump. He is perfect
for the role and a worthy Oscar winner. His character is so likable
that people care about him immediately. The supporting cast is also
memorable. Great performances by Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, Robin
Wright and Sally Field.The life of Forrest Gump is fascinating. He did things that made people
love him. Not to express sympathy for him, but truly look up to him. It
is a story of a lifetime. A story that moves anybody who believe in
good things. A compelling, touchy and emotional movie. Forrest says
that life is like a box of chocolate, you never know what you gonna
get. Pick a candy. It's probably delicious.

******
8 January 2011
10
this film is by far the most emotional film i have ever seen.everything
in it works perfectly the script is amazing with interest all the
time.the story depicts us that the most important thing in our life is
the love we have for our beloved ones,and the nostalgia we feel for
them when they pass away.the story has elements of comedy and adventure
but the meaning of the film is completely emotional.the acting in the
film is amazing.the three actors that take your breath away is tom
hanks gary sinise and robin wright.tom hanks depicts perfectly a person
that has a minor mental disability but with some great talents also a
person with a pure heart who would give his life for the people he
loves. it is extremely sad and maybe makes you cry that such bitter
things happen in his life i don't want to give a spoiler but in the end
forrest has only two reasons for living, that are the memories he has
from his mother his friend bubba and especially jenny.and the other
reason is his son he had with jenny.it is a really bitter movie truly a
nostalgic masterpiece.forrest gump titanic and cinema paradiso are by
far the greatest nostalgic films ever that i will never forget as long
as i am alive

******
31 December 2010
7
Dumb luck allows a moron to be present during numerous historical
events and to become fabulously rich. This film consists of numerous
amusing episodes that don't add up to a satisfactory whole. There is so
much emphasis on cleverly incorporating Gump into historic moments that
the narrative flow suffers. As such, the skits become tiresome after a
while, especially given the excessive length of the movie. Hanks's
performance is interesting but overdone, as he shifts from robotic to
goofy to emotional, making Gump not so much a character as a
caricature. The effects showing Gump interacting with the likes of JFK,
LBJ, Nixon, and John Lennon are well done.

******
22 October 2010
10
i have no words describing this larger than life view from a point of
view of person who is mentally not that good as we people are , nothing
can get better than this , i have to say i loved every bit of this
movie , and most of all what this movie gives , is above all . which is
message of love , hope and everybody is unique in his way, no matter
what disability he posses , this movie gives you everything 1. peace of
mind 2. sooths your eyes with its incredible cinematography, and i have
to say this "i love tom hanks" ,what he can does with his acting
prowess i bet very few in world can do it . these people makes you
drive crazy for making your way into this industry , which gives ideas
like this movie to showcase , i wish someday i'll like to make movie
like this or at least try . i give this movie 10 out of 10 . it
deserves more than that .

******
22 September 2010
10
Now, im not gonna spoil anything, although im presuming most of you
have seen the movie by now. When i first saw this movie i didn't really
have any expectations because i didn't know anything about it. It
simply blew me away though. The characters lives representing the
liberal and conservative side of America throughout the 20th century.Everyone can enjoy this movie. Its so amazing in its simplicity which
combines beautifully with just how amazing this movie is. The acting is
great and so is the plot and the dialouge. Hands down one of the best
movies of the 90's.My rating: 9.7/10

******
3 August 2010
10
There is absolutely nothing to say. Everything in this film is done to
absolute perfection. Every shot is beyond beautiful, every actor is
beyond fantastic, every second of the score is beyond amazing, every
character is beyond wonderful, everything this film gives me is beyond
compare. This film is my favorite of all time, and nobody will ever
steal its spot. Everyone who was involved with this film has earned
more respect out of me than anyone. This is the film that inspired me
to want to make, and review film. I have watched many films, but none
have ever made an impact on me as Forrest Gump. This movie does
everything right. Everything done in this movie is pretty much the best
anyone has ever done. Tom Hanks delivers what is in my opinion the best
performance in film history as the greatest character in film history.
Every word that Forrest says I hold on to. "Life is like a box of
chocolates. You never know what your going to get." If that is the
truth than this movie is a box of chocolates too. When I saw this film
for the first time I didn't know what I was going to get. What I got is
amazing.4 stars out of 4

******
19 July 2010
10
I saw "Forrest Gump" several times at the theaters and also at home on
a DVD I bought since it has become available. I believe this movie is
inspirational to what men can accomplish, despite of one's limited
intelligence. However, even men with limited intelligence have feelings
and can fall in love as did Forrest with Jenny, his life long sweat
heart from childhood. Through his life Forrest always loved Jenny and
under the most adverse circumstances he always kept her in his mind and
close to his heart. Despite of events in Forrest's and his life's
direction, he never forgot Jenny as his true love. After Forrest
returned from the Vietnam War, he ventured into the shrimping business
following the suggestion of his friend Bubba. By coincidence Forrest
met Jenny again, by which time she has become infected with an
incurable disease (I think HIV). Despite of his best efforts to give
her a loving home and try to have her cured, he was not able. Near the
end of the movie, I burst into tears when I saw Forrest tending to
Jenny's Grave. Beside of all the 60's and 70's historical events
Forrest stumble into, I believe this movie was a beautiful Love Story
of his Love for Jenny. by Steve Horvath, Chicago, IL

******
12 July 2010
10
Tom Hanks delivers a nuanced and cunning performance that cements his
status as one of the most talented actors of his generation in this
touching and beautifully rendered masterpiece.On the surface, it is the story of a mental midget who is haphazardly
thrust into pivotal and prolific moments, in history and in the lives
of those he loves. But Mr. Hanks imbues in his title character a
tugging and ironic mystery: Is he really the small-minded dolt everyone
assumes him to be, or is there something much more to him  something
we all wish we had?An impeccable supporting cast helps lift Mr. Hanks up. We see Robin
Wright as Jenny, the true and only romantic love of Forrest's life,
battle demons on the road to her own personal and transformational
peace. Gary Sinise is nothing short of marvelous as the semi-crazed
Lieutenant Dan, and Sally Field hits the mark as Forrest's doting and
insightful mother.Wonderfully paced and chock-full of memorable quotes, the film inspires
viewers to ponder questions so large as destiny and the true nature of
the just man.Lovely cinematography and an outstanding, apt soundtrack also help to
make this one of its decade's finest films.

******
26 March 2010
9
Robert Zemeckis brings Winston Groom's novel to the big screen in a
film that is easy to mock and reject but that, when actually watched on
screen instead of viewed through the filter of memory, is simply a fine
movie and a magnificent meld of sound and visuals, courtesy of one of
the best soundtracks ever.Tom Hanks plays our titular character, a simple man who somehow ends up
circling many important events as he goes through his life, innocent
and conforming. He meets Elvis, presidents, ends up in Vietnam, becomes
a ping pong wizard, goes shrimping and runs a lot ("run, Forrest, run")
but despite his travels and experiences his heart always belongs to his
Jenny (Robin Wright).I like Tom Hanks and I like this movie. A lot. But let's be totally
honest here, the central performance is a rather easy, goofy one and
there's nothing here that shouts "Oscar" except to those who somehow
gave Hanks his second Oscar for this role. Gump is lovable enough but
not really all that complex. Robin Wright fares well as the young girl
who wins his heart and spends far too much time damaging her own. Gary
Sinise is fantastic in a role that reminds you that he should be doing
so much more nowadays than TV work, Mykelti Williamson is great fun to
watch and Sally Field is . . . . . kinda Sally Field-ish.It's strange how innocent and yet twisted this movie is. The movie
starts off with one simple man talking to a stranger on a bench while
they wait for a bus and that man's narration covers topics as dark and
diverse as coping with disability, child abuse, drug taking, life at
war, racism and AIDS. Things may only be alluded to or hinted at but
they're there, in Forrest's life, and they all make an impact.With that in mind, it's hard to consider the movie as a straight,
standard comedy-drama or as an all-out black comedy. Whichever way you
view it, and Forrest's complete conformity seemingly making his life
turn out for the best puts me in the latter camp, it's a wonderful
movie that veers into schmaltz once or twice but that has enough
entertainment value elsewhere to make this forgivable.See this if you like: Zelig, The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button, Sling
Blade.

******
4 September 2009
6
***SPOILERS*** Incredibly schmaltzy movie about this borderline
mentally retarded, with an IQ of 75, person who despite his disability
gets himself involved in some of the most earth shaking events, in some
cases even initiating them, of mid to late Twentieth Century America.It seems that fame glory and even fortune, which he's seems to be
totally oblivious to, magically takes to Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks, like
a bee or hungry bear takes to honey. Forrest despite having the mental
capacity of an eight year-old ends up being a student, with a straight
D average, at the highly touted Alabama State University and, after
miraculously recovering from polio as a child, it's top 10 football
team's star running back. Forrest is also the major reason that Alabama
State was disaggregated despite the state's very pro segregation
Governor, George Wallace, standing at the doors of the university not
allowing black students to enter!Among the many achievements credited to Forrest is him, as a polio
stricken youngster, teaching "The King"-Elvis Presley-how to swings his
hips and shake his behind, while preforming on stage, that made him the
rock & roll legend, while still alive and after his death, that he was
to become. The film gets more and more ridiculous as it goes along with
Forrest not only becoming a national war hero-in him receiving the
Congressional Medal of Honor as well as a VC bullet in his behind-in
the Vietnam war but being involved in the biggest anti-war
demonstration against that war, by just happening to be there, at the
same time!Not only is Forrest a war hero he's also a vastly successful
businessman, in him cornering shrimp market, a stock market whiz in him
buying up hundreds if not thousands of shares in that up and coming
"Fruit Company"-Apple Electronics- for peanuts but is also the man-not
Woodward & Burnstein- who broke the story of the Watergate break-in
which had President Nixon resign from office in disgrace! While
accomplishing all that Forrest in his spare time became the world
champion Ping-Pong player defeating China's best at the Summer
Olympics!Despite all his accomplishments Forrest feels that something is missing
in his life in him being on the outs, she feels that he's somewhat of a
weirdo, with his childhood sweetheart Jenny Curran, Robin Wright Penn.
It's when Jenny gets pregnant with or without, it's never really fully
explained in the movie, Forrest's child that she in her being an unwed
mom, and addicted to crack cocaine, decides to finally give in and
marry the big schlump. It's after that premature happy ending that
Jenny is to find out that she's dying of an incurable disease,
obviously AIDS, and leaves a totally confused and befuddled Forrest
holding, together with little "Forrest Gump Jr", the bag. In the end we
see Forrest, like at the start of the movie, sitting on a bench waiting
for the bus to take little Forrest to school as he munches on a box of
chocolates reflecting on his incredible life that can happen not in
real life but only in the movies!

******
27 January 2008
6
Comedy-fantasy director Robert Zemeckis ("Romancing the Stone", "Back
to the Future", "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" and "Death Becomes Her")
branches out on a new tangent with the comedy-drama "Forrest Gump",
which tells the rather unlikely tale of a simple Alabama boy's
incredible journey through life.At times Zemeckis manages some subtle and observant comedy, but at
other times his attempts at humour fall completely flat. The same too
can be said about the dramatic element of the film, with many
emotionally powerful moments being contrasted with the bland and
ineffective.Potentially, "Forrest Gump" could have been a strong, intensely moving
saga of the life of an extraordinary - though slightly 'stupid' - human
being who's outlook on life could certainly teach us all a thing of two
about what should really be important to us. Gump's naivety and basic
values of friendship and love make him akin to another delightful yet
simple character, Mickey Rooney's "Bill", a mentally challenged man
who's only care was the people close to him.Zemeckis does achieve inspiration occasionally -symbolism is
interestingly used at the beginning and end of the picture, to
represent Forrest's biggest responsibility coming into his life and
then moving on in it's natural course - but for the most part he
approaches the movie as a comedy and so wastes the opportunity to
create some truly memorable cinema.Tom Hanks successfully tackles yet another challenging role, though
hardly triumphantly. Though Forrest's life is a roller coaster of ups,
downs and sensational events (too much so I must say), Hanks gets very
little chance to display a versatile range of emotions, and he doesn't
even have the most interesting character.As Gump's childhood sweetheart Jenny, Robin Wright portrays with
conviction a troubled, tormented and haunted character whose terrible
childhood has left her with no self worth. Forrest is the only man who
has ever respected and loved her for who she is. Also in strong support
is a very impressive Gary Sinise as the bitter Lt. Dan Taylor, a man
infuriated with Gump for saving his life, only to have to live it as a
cripple. Trapped in a wheelchair and feeling cheated out of his
destiny, the Lieutenant turns in desperation to booze and fast women.It is these two people, both of whom influence Forrest's life greatly,
that are by far the most intriguing characters, and it's a shame their
parts weren't developed more fully in this film. One mustn't forget the
evergreen Sally Field either. She plays Gump's momma, and her small
role gives us another glimpse of this fine actress.Cinematographer Don Burgess jumps at the chance to capture some
marvellous images of war and peace, with rural America photographed
splendidly at times. Rick Carter's production design maintains the
authenticity from the sixties to the eighties, as does the rock
soundtrack which even doubles as a narrator on occasion. Arthur
Schmidt, as editor, had a tougher job though, and it would appear he
had little idea what to leave in and what to take out.As a result Zemeckis' film is patchy and disjointed, inconsistent,
episodic and a fraction over long. Our director and his script writer
(Eric Roth-Groom) have tried too hard, and attempted to say too much.
Perhaps they could learn something from Anthony Page's "Bill" (1981),
which was brilliant in its simplicity.Rest assured though that the promise shown in this movie indicates Bob
Zemeckis has a definite future in the genre.Friday, December 2, 1994 - Croydon Twin Cinema

******
24 March 2006
10
This honestly a flawless movie. Its got everything, romance, comedy,
drama war! It sort of reminds me a Big Fish, you know, one of those
movies that follows some random persons amazing life. Tom Hanks is
amazing. Forrest Gump has an I.Q. of 75, but that does'nt stop him from
returning touchdowns on a college team, serving in Vietnam and winning
the Medal of Honor, being one of the best ping pongers of all time,
meeting numerous presidents, making a peace speech, which was not
heard. And then going out to be a shrimp captain in honor of his friend
in Vietnam. Eventually Lt. Dan comes along and joins him.Then, he gets a letter saying that he should invest in the apple
corporation which he mistakenly thinks is a food company. He sends his
friends family millions of dollars, and restarts their shrimping
business after a hurricane. There are many things that happen to the
slow-witted southerner, and I'm not going to name all of them, I must
warn you it is sad sometimes! Very few movies if any at all have a mix
of romance, drama, war, and comedy. Entertainment at its finest!

******
22 March 2006
10
He's really important for all humanity. He's big one Maybe we are all
Forrest We must look Forrest's eye He's really important for all
humanity. He's big one Maybe we are all Forrest We must look Forrest's
eye He's really important for all humanity. He's big one Maybe we are
all Forrest We must look Forrest's eye He's really important for all
humanity. He's big one Maybe we are all Forrest We must look Forrest's
eye He's really important for all humanity. He's big one Maybe we are
all Forrest We must look Forrest's eye He's really important for all
humanity. He's big one Maybe we are all Forrest We must look Forrest's
eye

******
21 March 2006
9
Forest Gump is an outstanding movie. It touches so much about American
History. It gives you an idea of how America was back in the 70's. When
the hippie revolution was going on. The Vietnam War, schools
segregations and so many other events that left a mark in American
History. Tom Hanks performs at is best in this movie. Forest who is categorized
as a "special" child lives through events that many "normal" children
would never experience. Getting to meet the President of the United
States, becoming the mvp of the coollege football team, becomes a ping
pon world champion, and by luck ends up oweing a multi-million dollar
fishing corporation.

******
21 March 2006
10
I was only 13 when this movie came out, but it changed my life. Since
then I've seen it like 40 times and I still find it amusing. It's the
magic of the masterpiece movie that it makes you watch it over and over
and you still find something new, something valuable. There are plenty
of great movies but only one is on the top for me. Forrest Gump.
Soundtrack is brilliant, cast even better, Tom Hanks is so believable,
that you almost think that he really has IQ 74. The plot covers like 40
something years of a man, history events included in such a way that
you just have to love it. There is no other way. I think that everybody
would like to be a Forrest Gump in some way he is something like a
working class hero of the 90's. Zemeckis did a great job with this
movie, he managed to repeat it with CastAway in a different way. Hanks
is exceptionally good in roles which view him as a solitary character,
having nothing but a bunch o dreams, memories and plans.

******
19 March 2006
10
I was wondering if anyone else noticed that when they were kids, in the
field behind HER house when her dad was hunting for her, she prayed
"god make me a bird so I can fly far, far away."(as birds did fly away)
Then when he found her singing naked at the bar and they were on the
bridge she asked him "do you think I could fly if I jumped?" Then when
she was ready to dive off the hotel balcony, the song Free Bird by
skynnard was playing and at the end when he was walking away from her
grave, he paused for a moment and watched the birds land in the tree
above her. The symbolism of her trying to always get away and find
peace and freedom only happened when she died and was laid to rest. By
the way, the soundtrack cd for sale for that movie had every song on it
but Free Bird.

******
19 March 2006
10
This movie touches me in many ways. He goes from the love of his mother
to the love of his life. He "Gumps" his way through life and finds
himself in lots of life's great events. It makes me feel as though I
have done and seen a lot of what Forrest has done and seen. I must say
that I have "Gumped" a lot in my life and been there to see history. I
am a navy veteran and was there when the Marines were blown up in
Beruit in 1983. I was standing outside Buckingham Palace when President
Ronald Reagan came up and pulled into the main gates as I was saluting
his limousine. I was sightseeing in the courtyard of the Vatican on
Christmas day 1984, when Pope John Paul opened a high window and
blessed us all in the courtyard with his Christmas blessing. I was
aboard ship in the Gulf of Lybia, when Momar Kadafi called on his
people to kill all Americans and to blow up my ship, the U.S.S. Dwight
D. Eisenhower. So I have "Gumped" around a bit. I also have the love of
my life, although her name is Lori.

******
5 March 2006
10
this is a heart wrenching film, that will make you cry and laugh at the
same time.. i know how clichd that sounds, but i really loved this
film, i thought it was so original and Tom Hanks is amazing in it! i
recommend you to see this film if: 1) your looking for something moving
2) you got a while cos its quite long 3) you want to watch a film that
makes you think. tom hanks plays an excellent role, and always keeps
the character going throughout the film, you really feel pity or
happiness for him, he really gives it his all. I'm not sure how great
this review really is, I'm really just going on bout how good the film
was without any reasons, but I'm unsure of what to say. i definitely
think, however, that it is a classic film, that will be watched for
generations.

******
1 March 2006
10
I'm about to publish a book, called the Bubba Book of Knowledge. One of
my quests has been to travel to take photographs of famous movie
scenes. I've lived in Savannah since 1983 and was thrilled that Gump
was filmed in and around my town. The bench was in downtown Savannah.
The Gump House is near Beaufort. The tree they sat in is near the
entrance to the Beaufort Marine Base. The bridge that Jenny almost
jumped from has been torn down, but was the Kings Ferry Bridge near
Richmond Hill, Georgia. Love's Seafood had a temporary "Girls, Girls,
Girls" neon sign on their restaurant, next to the bridge. Gump was
running in front of the houses on West Bay Street in Savannah. I spent
a night across the street from the Santa Monica Pier, where he ran to
the end and stopped. The grate the young Gump caught his foot in was in
Ridgeland, South Carolina. It's such a thrill to recapture the scenes. It's amazing that this
movie has continued to be one of my favorites. It was set in the times
of my same age groups and so much of the memories come flooding back.Thom Brooks Brooks Insurance School, SABL Baseball Savannah, Georgia

******
17 February 2006
10
Maybe the greatest film of the contemporary cinematic age. A heart-felt
tale of love, loss and life. The films meandering account, of a
selfless man, in search of destiny; portrays vivid historical events
and landmarks, affirming an aura of surreal realism. "Adversity does
not create character, it uncovers it", and this statement is no truer
than for Forrest Gump. As the film suggests, perhaps life IS as fragile
as a feather, moving from place to place for no rhyme or reason. But
maybe, just maybe, there is reason; an underlying human hope, that
there are no coincidences, that there is a plan and you never know
where it may take you. To pass off this film as 'great' or even
'excellent' would be an insult of unfathomable proportions. An insight
into the fragility of life and the unbound nature of 'destiny'; maybe
we're all just feathers, blowing on a cool summer breeze.

******
14 February 2006
10
Forrest Gump-The first thing i want to say about the movie is that it
has a wonderful soundtrack.After you saw the movie and listen to the
soundtrack you fully relive the movie.That makes a soundtrack a good
one. And a good movie needs a good soundtrack.But what i really wanna
say is how i was overwhelmed by actor Tom Hanks. What a wonderful
performance.So many and different emotions in one character and the way
he translate it on the screen is just great.Also a very nice thing
about the movie is that it has it all. Its romantic, dramatic,amazing
and sometimes funny. Everybody's movie i should say. Too bad of that
smiley on the shirt though but that is just for fun. But this is an all
time winner i guess.

******
13 February 2006
10
Not because it is the best movie ever , I cannot define such , its
simply so full of American flavors and humor that you cannot resist to
watch it once, twice, many times over and still discover details,
jokes, lines, symbols, history, music, all these things typical and
amusing. First you have a brilliant sense of humor, well sometimes
rough around the edges but still like a diamond shine. Second - so many
historically important events and stories, scenery, heroes, etc. that I
really enjoyed it. Third - the music is really good, also typical and
fit to the scenes and moments in the movie. Fourth... I am tired of
discussing but I would like to say just go ahead and watch this,
especially if you are European tired of American movies, Americans
really can make a good laugh movie implanted with very deep thinking
and brilliant allusions. Oh I almost forgot the acting of Tom Hanks is
quite perfect!

******
7 February 2006
10
I have seen this movie at least a dozen times, and it never gets old.
It is just a classic, moving movie that sticks with you for a long
time. I am a big movie buff and have become a careful critic, and this
movie is at the top of my list.The movie is about the life of a simple man. Everyone he meets can't
help but love him because of how sincere and innocent he is. Even
though he is made fun of, loses people he loves, and practically
ignored by the woman he is on love with, he always remains kind and
never holds a grudge.After seeing this movie, I fell in love with Tom Hanks as an actor. He
does such a good job of making you love and sympathize with his
character, Forrest. Everyone else in the movie also does a wonderful
job in playing their roles. Overall, this is one of my favorite movies,
and i would highly recommend it to anyone who likes great movies.

******
29 January 2006
10
All i can say is that this is by far one of the best movies ever. The
story flows perfectly, the characters are flawless, the events are all
meaningful, the dialogue is clever, it is funny, it is sad, it is
smart...it is all things great. Tom hanks is a great actor and he fits
the role perfectly. This is my personal favorite movie and always will
be. What is so great about this movie is the fact that the flashbacks
flow flawlessly. With some movies that attempt a flashback type story,
i feel lost in the order of events. The characters in this movie are
also some of my favorites and there is a significant change in all and
you learn to love all of them, even Lt.Dan. If you don't ever see this
movie you are missing out on a classic.

******
29 January 2006
10
After seeing this film again, I realized that this is the reason we
watch movies. The reason we make movies. It is funny and hopeful and
sad and imaginative and truthful and everything that we look for in our
everyday lives, but aren't likely to find. With a Hollywood inundated
with unoriginal pieces of tripe - this film is a shining example of why
we still have faith in the art form. When this movie came out people
made a fuss about the 3-hour running time - but every minute is worth
it. Now 3 hours sees to be the norm for Hollywood "blockbusters" - but
what do we get for that? Special effects and weak scripts (with a few
notable exceptions). Take the time to watch this movie and savor the
innocence and pure fun that is this classic film.This is a film that everyone should watch at every different phase of
their lives - because it will mean a different thing each time you see
it.

******
29 January 2006
9
When i first watched this movie i was about 10 or 11, and i hated it..
I couldn't understand how people would like this film, or even why they
were continuing to watch it. It was to sad, and at that age, i couldn't
cope with the thought of mothers and friends dieing.Then fast forward 7 years, and my neighbour lent me the book, and i
decided to give it a go. I started to read it, and it was nothing like
i remembered the film. I can remember thinking, why did i hate the film
when the book is so gripping?? I then decided that i would have to
watch the movie again, to see why i hated it so much.I then found out that the book is nothing like the film. There were no
cannibals, or trips to space with a monkey. Had they just forgotten to
put it in? and where did all this running come from?? After deciding to
stick it out, i realised that in its own right, the film was brilliant
too. Although it was completely different form the book, it was still
brilliant.I finally understood everything, and that this man didn't let anything
stop him. And although he wasn't the brightest person, he was the
strongest.

******
26 January 2006
10
When I hear the music, I think of how wonderful the world can truly be
if there were more Forrest Gumps out there. When the film came out, it
was truly breathtaking. It showed that the great and talented Tom Hanks
can perform anything. Had this film been released a year before? He
would have probably have gotten his first Academy Award for Best Actor.
Truthfully, his role in Philadelphia was good but not Forrest Gump. We
don't really remember much of the role in the previous film except that
he played a Philadelphia attorney dying of AIDS and suing for justice
for his termination. While the film, Philadelphia is good. It's not
Forrest Gump. What separates Forrest Gump from Philadelphia is that
there is so much more going on around the character. I think it's a
shame that Sally Field did not get an Academy Award nomination for Best
Supporting Actress for playing his mother and Robin Wright also did not
get a nomination for Best Supporting ACtress for playing the love of
FOrrest's life. They were some of the best female performances of that
year alone. When you hear the music or the soundtrack, you are reminded
of the some of the most memorable moments in movie history of a truly
remarkable character named Forrest Gump. Gary Sinise was also worth
mentioning because he was nominated for BEst Supporting Actor as the
man's Vietnam comrade who he saved. That touching moment of when
Forrest realizes his gratitude for saving his life is still chilling
and touching and remarkable like the film.

******
18 January 2006
10
Not one to have quite made a classic (though the first "Back to the
Future" film and "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?" come close), Robert
Zemeckis never makes less than interesting work. (I have a particular
weakness/affinity for it). In some senses, "Forrest Gump" may be his
magnum opus - if only because it showcases all of Zemeckis' nuances and
idiosyncrasies whilst also somewhat disguising and flaunting its own
off-beatedness in a fairly linear - albeit curious - narrative. How do
you criticise a film like this? For every negative thrown at Gump, I've
seen the film produce a reasonable rebuttal in my own mind. It seems to
defy criticism altogether. This unique quality of Gump stems from its
refusal to completely yield to its conflicting tonalities and messages.
Is it satire, drama or something else? Does it favour the American
Dream, slander it or alternatively embrace and shy away from it? Does
it champion Forrest's virtuosity, outright demean it or look
impartially at it? Do these labels and divides exist at all - is the
film merely disinterested in these things or maybe trying to suggest
that we shouldn't be bothered and stop dealing in labels and monikers?
Many questions - few answers.Hanks' performance embodies the film. It's pleasant, slick and
affecting - yet was it really more Oscar worthy (he won, the others
didn't) than Gary Sinise's in the same film or Samuel Jackson's in
"Pulp Fiction"? Was the film as a whole deserving of "Best Picture"?
Are you sick of reading questions? It's all so damn hard to pin this
work to one thing. The film offers itself up for criticism in a number
of areas - in its flagrant sentimentality, in its gimmicky "Forrest
interacting with famous people" sequences, in its vast extravagancies
(e.g. any time Forrest runs and inevitably performs a remarkable feat)
- but all these things seem woven into a greater fabric that spins and
toys with them and its pure protagonist, like the wind spinning and
toying with the pure white feather and contriving it to land at his
feet, not to mention the viewer, in a knowing and powerful manner.
Truly, there is nothing quite like "Forrest Gump" - nor is there
anything like Forrest Gump. Perhaps that is at the root of it all. The
film is possibly nothing more than a celebration of individuality. What
makes it so profound and transcendental is that the individual of
Forrest gives us a unique look at varied and turbulent American
history, and more broadly, even more varied and turbulent human
experience. We should probably be thankful for that.I'm sorry for the slightly unconventional review, but as I've said and
implied all over, it's an unconventional film and needs to be handled
as such. We can all look tough picking up broken glass with Kevlar
gloves; when the sharp diamond-like edges can't get to our skin so
easily. We can all look good destroying a film with sweeping words;
when we've "gloved" ourselves away from its smaller details. But how
many of us can dispense with the gloves, picking up broken piece after
broken piece, constantly risking exposure to the finer qualities of the
glass - glass that may cut us? How many of us can dispense with our
harsh words, patiently resolving to consider and explore the finer
textures of "Forrest Gump" - a film that may be saying nothing of
interest and reward our patience by "cutting" us? It's a tough one.
This review has been non-committal. So is the film. See it. Feel it.
Live it.

******
16 January 2006
9
Forrest Gump, starring Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright Penn and
Gary Sinise and directed by Robert Zemeckis, is a lovely tale of one
man who tells his life story at a bus stop while waiting for the bus
that will take him to the woman he has loved for most of his life.Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) has an I.Q. of 75 but has done so much with
his life. He has met three American Presidents, fought in the Vietnam
War, played for the American Football Team and the Ping-Pong Team and
has owned a shrimp-boat. While waiting at a bus top for the bust that
will take him to Jenny (Robin Wright Penn), a life-long friend, he
tells anyone who sits next to him the story of his life. From his
childhood, living in Alabama with his mum (Sally Field), to his battle
in Vietnam under Lt. Dan Taylor (Gary Sinise) and the multitude of
other things he has accomplished.Forrest Gump is a wonderful movie, with a great mix of everything, from
comedy to drama and even war. Forrest Gump is wonderfully acted and
directed. Zemeckis has made a lovely film that is very touching.It only loses half a star because I thought it was a little
over-sentimental.4/5.

******
10 January 2006
10
(Original comment September 2005)I saw the critically-acclaimed 'classic' Forrest Gump just the other
night. The story revolves around a slow-witted, unintelligent man by
the name of Forrest Gump. As Gump waits at a bus stop, he decides to
tell those sitting next to him his life story. As it turns out, Gump
has been present at many historic events; the problem is, he's too
stupid to realise their significance. He also tells of his one true
love, Jenny, who was the only person in his life to accept him for who
he was. However, from adulthood onward, she often eluded him, instead
preferring to live a life involving sex and drugs.Anyway, enough about the plot. Judging by what I saw the other night,
Forrest Gump definitely deserves it's status as a 'classic' movie.
First off, it is original to an extent, as it focuses on deconstructing
a low-intelligence person, rather than putting one in just for cheap
laughs (as in There's Something About Mary). Another interesting aspect
of the movie is that there is no real villain who is constantly at odds
with Gump, as there are in other movies. It also takes on so many moods
successfully. Most movies choose one mood and stick with it (comedy,
romance, etc.), whereas Forrest Gump provided me with laughs (like
when, in a football game, the crowd flashes 'GO FORREST' and then 'STOP
FORREST' when he reaches the try line) and romance (Gump and Jenny).Second off, some of the acting here is great. Tom Hanks really does
deliver as Forrest Gump. His accent never wavers and he portrays his
low-intelligence character in a touching yet funny way (two signifiers
which are pretty much opposites in today's movies). His facial
expressions are also quite realistic (see his look when he discovers
that he has a son). Gary Sinise (or as I called him, Steve Waugh) puts
in a pretty good performance as the embittered lieutenant who believes
that his destiny was to die in Vietnam and is 'pissed off' at Gump for
robbing him of it. Mylketi Willamson (I think that's his name), also
gives a decent turn as Gump's black buddy. Thirdly, as aforementioned above, this is like a documentary on
American culture in the 50's, 60's, 70's and even 80's, as seen through
the eyes of Forrest Gump. During the movie, Forrest meets JFK, Lyndon
Johnson, Richard Nixon, begins the Watergate scandal, serves in Vietnam
and makes national TV, to name a few. This part of the movie, I
believe, is presented in an interesting manner.I find it hard to criticise a movie like 'Forrest Gump', however, I do
have one issue with it. It is a little too righteous. Gump has no
personality flaws other than being a man of low intelligence. Jenny, on
the other hand, is constructed as a woman with many flaws and pays the
ultimate price as a result. This is a touch unrealistic. However, this
is a minor issue which most people won't even see. Other than that, it
is perfect.I've spoiled enough of the movie for you, so I leave you with this
parting advice: See this movie as soon as possible. I saw Forrest Gump,
hoping that it'd be good and I wasn't disappointed, but bear in mind
that good is an understatement when referring to this movie. This is
probably the best movie I've seen this year (over Memento and The Dirty
Dozen).5/5 stars

******
7 January 2006
10
This movie narrates the life of an ordinary man who becomes part of
some extraordinary events.His life revolves around 3 persons. His mother - Though Forests school
was not ready to accept Forest as student (due to lack of
intelligence), but her mother never gave up and went beyond her limits
to give proper education to Forest.His childhood friend Jenny - Jenny is the person whom he loved and most
in his life and always cared for her. Jenny has always treated him as a
true friend. She knew he is not a smart person, but he is a very nice
person.His friend Gary - He saved his life in Vietnam war. But Gary lost his
both the legs. They started a shrimp company and become billionaire.
Their friendship is a good example for all of us.In Summary, Forest Gump is a story about a ordinary man who become part
of extraordinary historic events. This man is a kind hearted person who
is loved by everyone due to his kind nature.This is the best movie I have ever seen.

******
6 January 2006
10
I saw Forrest Gump when I was around eight years old, and to tell you
the truth, it was boring to me then. Now I am old enough to understand
how the director uses symbolism to represent how anyone, in this case a
young man with a mental illness, can change the world by following his
heart. That sounds cheesy, but it is very much true. Forrest Gump,
beautifully portrayed by Tom Hanks, is extremely naive, yet maybe that
is why he withdraws affection from any audience (that can comprehend
basic symbolism, of course, a huge part in this movie's nature.) as you
watch his amazing life unfold. I recommend this movie to anyone in the
mood for a sad, moving, and intellectual movie. Forrest Gump truly
deserves to be called a 'classic'.

******
28 December 2005
8
You can not watch this movie and empathize with Forrest. When Jenny
leaves him, you weap. When they reunite, you get that warm, fuzzy
feeling. When he exposes his rear-end to the President, you are
embarrassed for him. Tom Hanks plays the role of "clueless child
trapped in a man's body" superbly. Gary Sinise's character, Lt. Dan,
also insites a lot of emotion. Mostly pity, but emotion nonetheless.
This movie also contains two unforgettable scenes: The first being when
Lt. Dan makes the leap from the shrimp boat after asking "Where the
Hell is this God of yours?" and receiving an answer. The other being
when the birds take off in flight at the end of the movie. Thinking
back on what Jenny prayed when fleeing her abusive parent, that scene
is truly powerful. A must see!

******
19 December 2005
10
TBS showed this movie last night, and none to say the least, I've seen
it a thousand times, and all those times, I kept thinking to myself.
How can a man with an IQ of 75 become a millionaire while us regulars
are pulling in a regular salary of $45,000? The answer: Perseverance,
Character. Ambition, Pride, and finally, Inspiration. That's what gets
it done, and this movie gets it done with great fashion. It preservers
through the rough times Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) possesses (the death
of Bubba, his mom, and Jenny). The character he had for going back to
get the wounded men on the front when Gump was in the Vietnam War, and
allowing people to run with him in his mindless running. Ambition to
try and succeed with what he wanted to do with his life (be something,
and get there), as well as braving out a storm during a day out on the
sea looking to catch some shrimp. Pride, his confidence in himself, the
way he handles things around himself, and the ability to handle his own
situations. Finally, there's inspiration, as he gave the normal human a
reason for hope, and an ability to start anew after making a bad
mistake.The film itself is true in the exact word of it. A man who had limited
potential to be something in the world, who then becomes a wealthy
tycoon with millions of money. He doesn't run away with it either. He
gave it to families that needed the money, build a church, a hospital,
and helped his old war companion Lieutenant Dan out of some financial
troubles that he was suffering.Hanks plays Gump with terrific fashion and expertise as southern with a
low IQ and skills of a 3rd grader. His performance gets a round of
applause from all and standing ovation from many. Jenny (Robin Wright
Penn), though drafty at times, looked pretty as Jenny, who struggled in
life and her obstacles, and finally, there's the man Gary Sinise, who
portrays the enigmatic Lieutenant Dan. He's terrific as a supporting
role as one of the friends that Gump develops, and is a great sidekick
to his downfalls (see the New Year's Eve party scene).Based on true current events behind him, its a superb movie that should
be watched with the entire family. I wholly recommend it.That's all I have to say about that.

******
27 November 2005
10
what a film. The special fx Unbelievable you've got to love Forest even
though every thing was against him, from his bad legs to his low I.Q he
saw the good in everyone Tom Hanks played the part excellently. My
favourite film of all time. It has every thing action comedy romance.
another great thing was the soundtrack you've got elivs, bob Dylan, the
beach boys & the doors the music makes the film that extra bit special.
usually you watch films you only remember small parts, in this you're
amazed by what he achieves that you remember everything his football
career, ping-pong success, medal of honer & all those trips to the
white house. Forest Gump is Tom Hanks at his best

******
24 November 2005
7
While 'Forrest Gump' is a good movie, it is a victim of being an
over-rated movie. It was one of those films that was in the public eye
for a few years, and people quoted it until it became less than a
novelty. Finally, it died down, and it is nearly forgotten by the
fickle mainstream now.The film follows a southern United States boy with a below-average IQ
into adulthood. It is a film about love and longing as much as it is a
comedy film and a historical film. (I know that there are a few rated
scenes, but this would be a good film to show to young adults because
it is as entertaining as it is a lesson in American history.) Forrest
happens to be involved in some important events from his childhood in
the 1950s (where he meets and inspires Elvis) to the end of
segregation, the Vietnam war, and meeting the president. Despite his
low IQ, luck plays a big part in Forrest's life except in his love life
where he yearns for Jenny, a girl he knew since his childhood.I would recommend this film, even though it is over-rated.

******
14 November 2005
10
Forrest Gump is a classic. A film in which people cry, laugh and are
even shocked. Tom Hanks gives one of the greatest performances of all
time in movie history. He won an Oscar for the role of Forrest Gump,
and darn right he should have. Where do you start with a great movie
like this? I think the way Forrest is so..dumb, people want to see what
is going to happen next. If it was a normal guy, well he would propose
to Jenny on the spot. He wouldn't listen to everything his mama said,
and you wouldn't have such a good film. Forrest goes through just about
everything. His best good friend dies, his mama dies and someone else
dies that's close to him. Forrest Gump is a great, great film. Watch
it. My mama always said if you watch a good movie, you'll have a good
heart. :)

******
10 November 2005
9
A mentally-challenged man is telling his life to random people on a
bench. Good idea? Sure, it doesn't sound too promising, but trust me-it
is! The film starts out with Tom Hank's wonderful performance of
Forrest Gump. He sits on a bench telling his about his life to people
that will listen. What exactly is his life? Forrest has lived a
dramatic, passionate life full of love, romance and laughs.Forrest Gump plays out in chronological order. We start out in his
childhood, which Forrest lives through without a father. When he goes
to school, he meets Jenny, the girl he is destined to fall in love
with. The childhood is a bit embarrassing- the kids are all very odd,
but luckily, that is soon over when Forrest goes to high school. He is
picked on for his low IQ, and only Jenny sticks up for him. When the
kids throw rocks at him, he runs. And thus, one of the most famous
lines in Cinema History: "Run Forrest, run!" So, Forrest lives through
life, often meeting historical figures, which are seen through
Forrest's eyes. (The tag line is "Your world will never be the same,
once you've looked through the eyes of Forrest Gump.") Meanwhile, Jenny
goes in her own direction, having boyfriends, becoming a hippie,
prostituting, and much more.Through the thirty years Forrest lives, only a few moments are spent
with Jenny. Because of this, those moments are the sweetest moments of
them all. Well, they might be. There are so many moments; it's hard to
pinpoint just one.I know this film has some flaws such as some gross jokes, and
embarrassing moments. I cannot deny these flaws, but I also cannot deny
the warmth that was in my heart after the movie was over. The acting, witty humor, drama, creativity and romance will do noting
less than put a smile on your face.10/10Feel free to send me a Private Message regarding this comment.

******
4 November 2005
8
In reply to the first comments on this movie.... I always thought that
the movie was trying to imply that life is short, take every
opportunity that is handed to you by the horns and make the most of it,
and don't be afraid to try new things, it just might open a door to a
new adventure....why can't movies just be about making people feel good
for a change, too many people try to read into the "secret meaning" of
films.... that's all I have to say about that. But wait there's
more....why is it that our comments have to be 10 lines long? I mean
what happens if we can communicate what we wish to say in LESS than 10
lines?? What then? There ya go, 10 lines.

******
29 October 2005
10
This movie is by far the best movie I have ever viewed in my entire
life! Tom Hanks' stellar performance shocks everyone who sees this
movie, therefore it was not a surprise that he won best actor at the
Oscars for the 2nd time in a row for this movie. As well this movie
received best director (Rob Zemeckis) and best picture! Not only is the
acting and script excellent, "Forrest Gump" also shows some of the best
camera techniques ever shown in a featured film.The movie gives a great
story, both dramatic, funny, and exciting. All in all, if you are one
of the few who have not yet seen this movie, than you should do so
right away because this movie not only has one of the best living
actors starring in it, it also has one of the best characters ever
created to star in a film. Kudos to the whole team who worked on this
memorable masterpiece!

******
24 October 2005
10
Well i m going to say this as simple as i can , if you haven't seen
this movie yet , you should just go right now and rent it or buy it.
The main character of this movie , even if he is just a "retarded" he
is very smart and very noble. He is a kid , an innocent kid, who sees
the world in a different way. I loved this movie because is just so
good , we see him in so many different important moments. I've seen
this movie like 10 times and yet i haven't got enough of it. The camera
shoots just perfect so does the Tom Hanks acting. This story shows a
noble, caring , good and retarded kid, in a world of madness he gets
himself into a happy, rich and completely wonderful life.

******
3 September 2005
9
In the film Forrest Gump, Tom Hanks actually plays allegory and
myth-in-the-making (aka history) as a "slow" individual floating
through the decades. The cinematists used this technique of "history
personified" uniquely to full effect in this film. No other film has
gotten away with such an entertaining stroll through the years. Not
necessarily to be taken literally; this film was so lauded (possibly
unknowingly) for its seamless ability to compartmentalize and package
the most recent years of American history up to 1994. Much like the
writing of a history textbook, we watch the years unfold as Forrest
Gump glides through the ups and downs, stoic to the signs of the times.Though the film also tells the stories of Jenny, Lt. Dan, Bubba, and
Momma, it is Forrest through which we see the world. Though each of
these characters *(and the many lesser characters) who come in contact
with Forrest each have their own some what negative first response to
him, they each, in surrender, are redeemed. Much like each person's
relation with history. In the end it is Forrest sitting alone on a rock
in a small town Mississippi once again alone. For alone, history sits
on a rock in small town Mississippi watching his son ride the bus to
kindergarten.Through this lens, all the devices of the film take on new meaning.
Forrest's sporadic television appearances and brushes with celebrity
are in fact their own brushes with history. While many films use a
boy-girl love relationship as a centerpiece around which to build
elaborate stages, here the relationship of love is wrapped around the
passage of time. History loves you and history survives you. History is
slow and history is a minimalist. The feather device is yet another
metaphor for history but one which would not have connected with the
audience nearly as much as Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks is the feather, the
loose leaf, the page from the Curious George book. Our myth/history set
free in the wind yet marked by the past; the pages of our lives.

******
3 September 2005
10
FORREST GUMP (1994) I don't think it is possible. Forrest Gump has to be one of the best
movies I've had the pleasure of seeing.There's not a lot of people like Forrest, so there's not a lot of
movies like Forrest Gump. The movie is about a man named Forrest
(played by Tom Hanks) whose IQ is a 75. In the movie, he shares his
life with people at a bus stop. He shares about all kinds of different
events that happened from the 1950's to the 1980's.This is not a story about a man who is mentally retarded. It is more of
a man who manges to get through life, despite all he's been through.Forrest was born in Alabama to a boardinghouse owner (played by Sally
Field). During his childhood, he is forced to wear leg braces to
correct his posture. When they finally fall off in his high school
years (during a chase by bullies in a pick-up truck) Forrest realizes
he can run like the wind.In his adult years, Forrest accomplishes so much. First, he joins the
military and is sent off to Vietnam, he becomes a ping-pong champion,
he becomes a shrimp boat captain (in memory of one of his military
buddies, Bubba), he becomes a millionaire stockholder for Apple
Computers and he runs across the country for no reason.The thing that impressed me most were the carefully-selected TV clips
and the voice dubbing. With these, director Robert Zemeckis was able to
create some hilarious moments throughout the movie.Overall, this movie is a must-see. Forrest Gump gets a well-deserved
10/10!

******
26 August 2005
10
Forrest Gump is my favorite film ever, and in my opinion the greatest
film of all time. That's right, I said of all time. It has everything:
romance, drama, war, and comedy. Tom Hanks is among the greatest actors
ever and definitely the best in the last twenty years. Robert Zemeckis
is very good at what he does, although he has made some movies that
weren't up to par for him (What Lies Beneath...Ew). He is a great
director, and I would've retired after this film if I were him. I've
seen this film countless times, probably over three hundred, and I
think I enjoy it more every time I watch it. The composition of the
scenes are great, the interaction between characters and overall
character development is superb, and it truly captures a point in time
that many baby-boomers can truly appreciate. I really do think it is
the greatest film I've ever seen or will see.

******
22 July 2005
9
Forrest Gump is a timeless film that has won the hearts of millions.
It's attraction is a combination of an inspirational story that has
heart, the likable innocence of Forrest as the pivotal character during
significant periods of recent national and even international
historical events, and his genuine affection towards the people who
become a part of his life. It is a story about life that the audience
can relate to on many different levels, containing elements that
provoke every human emotion. There are quite a few catchy, memorable
"one-liners" that have real meaning for us to ponder, and we can even
learn a lesson or two from the simple examples that he sets. Played by
actor Tom Hanks, Forrest was a slow-minded southern boy who overcame
his disadvantages and challenges through his own sheer will. Often
times people are ridiculed by others for being "different", as was the
case with Forrest starting in his youth. Whether it was for the braces
he wore on his legs or for his below-average IQ, there would always be
others who would pick on him for no good reason. Forrest did the best
he knew how and overcame these obstacles in spite of those who looked
down upon him. With a strong upbringing by his "Mamma", played by Sally
Field, he was instilled with a basic sense of good southern values that
propelled him to accomplishments of greatness that can be admired by
people from all walks of life.On a few occasions when somebody actually treated Forrest with the
decency and appreciation that all human beings deserve, they won a
loyalty from him that would last beyond a lifetime. It doesn't take
much sometimes to gain somebody's friendship. Maybe it starts with just
a simple gesture, like on their first day of school when nobody would
let him sit with them on the bus except for the little girl Jenny who
let him sit with her (and then she had a friend for life). Forrest's
"best good friend" Bubba did the same thing for him when they first met
on that Army bus. Since they were both a little slow-minded, they had a
lot in common and there was an instant chemistry between them. Bubba
shared his dream of being in the shrimping business and invited Forrest
to become a part of it with him, but unfortunately Bubba got killed in
the war at Vietnam and could never realize his dream. However, Forrest
kept his promise to him and followed through with it for Bubba, and
when it became a successful business, he remained true to Bubba and
gave his half of the profits to Bubba's family. While in the Army,
Lieutenant Dan became a part of his life and was right away someone who
Forrest looked up to and admired, with the memorable one-liner, "I sure
hope I don't let him down". After saving the Lieutenant's life, their
friendship and loyalty continued after the Army. When he showed up to
fulfill his promise of becoming Forrest's first mate, Forrest was so
excited to see him that he jumped out of the boat and swam towards him,
leaving it unmanned. When it then took a whole dock out, only
half-embarrassed, Forrest looked and proudly said in another one-liner,
"that's my boat". Out of continued respect and appreciation, Forrest
always referred to him as Lieutenant Dan. Forrest can run, which is a
favorite pastime of many people and also can be a source of solitude.
When he ran just to run, all of a sudden it just made sense to people
and many thought he had "all the answers". "He sure is a running fool",
but when it comes to defending the honor of his girl and doing what's
right, he is truly a man on a mission and isn't afraid to fight for
what he believes in. These all show qualities of friendship and ideals
that everybody can strive for.Not only does this film appeal for it's heart-felt entertainment value,
but it also has a lot of replay value as well. It's the kind of movie
that, each time it is watched, more is learned about the depth of each
character and their relationships with Forrest. The one-liners are
always just as enjoyable and, after all, what red-blooded American
couldn't be inspired watching Forrest clobber some guy in defending the
honor of his Jenny? In every way, Forrest Gump packs a good wallop.

******
18 July 2005
10
Forest Gump is personally my favorite movie of all time. Not only does
it portray the inspirational story of a "slow" man's life, but it also
shows one of the most important times in our nation's history. Forest
Gump is an outstanding movie with exceptional acting by Tom Hanks and
Sally Field. Robert Zemekis blends human emotions with friendship in
this timeless tale. Forest Gump is also a hilarious movie with many
jokes and laughs for the whole family. Many people would say it is not
appropriate for small children, but I beg to differ. Forest Gump is one
of those movie you SHOULD show your kids to give them a taste of what
it was like when you were a kid.Two Thumbs Way Up!!!

******
3 March 2005
10
This is the best film I have ever seen. It broke my heart, yet was so
funny in parts. It is impeccably acted, from even the youngest of cast
members, and the tapestry of Forrest's life crossing paths with
memorable historic events is magical. A young boy from the deep south
with a disability who meets such people as John Lennon, Elvis Presley
and two presidents of the United States! A story of romance,
prejudice,abuse, war, humour, drugs and most of all, serendipity, this
is a MUST-SEE film. Once I had seen it, I immediately purchased it on
DVD so that I could watch it with all my friends again and again. I
showed it to my best friend, and she too became enchanted. Please,
please watch this film. You owe it to yourself!

******
27 February 2005
9
The first time I saw this film it was in Portugeuse with subtitles and
I watched it and thought what the hell am I watching this for? I
absolutely hated it, I couldn't understand it for one thing, but on
some level I must have connected with it because ever since I've wanted
to sit down and watch it again. Today after 5 or 6 years I finally got
to watch this film again, this is one of my favourite films ever. This
film really is one of a kind, I have never seen a film like it. Most of
the story is narrated by Tom Hanks's Forrest with him telling passers
by his life story, he is looking back on his life and it is evident
that he has played an important role in history unaware though he is.
Forrest's story is a heartwarming, heartbreaking tale, despite his fame
and fortune the one person he's ever wanted will never truly be his for
any length of time and what can you do but cry? Without doubt this is
Tom Hanks's film, I doubt that any other actor could carry off the role
of Forrest, the other characters are acted superbly but Tom Hanks's
fully deserves praise for this film. In my eyes Forrest Gump is a real
person who has led a very real life, his heartfelt monologues will stay
with me forever & I will always remember what "Mama always said..." I
am yet to find another film that has stayed with me the way this film
have, I have never waited years to see a film and will probably never
do again. This film stands out, it is one of a kind, there is no other
film like this film and there is nobody else like Forrest Gump. "The
World will never be the same again once you've seen it through the eyes
of Forrest Gump."

******
22 February 2005
10
This movie is pure truth, love and innocence. This is kind of movie
that you can watch over and over, and you will always find something
new, something that you didn't recognize. Watching World trough Forrest
Gamp eyes, World will be better place to live! Simple, masterpiece of
Robert Zemeckis. Best movie that I ever see! I must say it again: This
movie is pure truth, love and innocence. This is kind of movie that you
can watch over and over, and you will always find something new,
something that you didn't recognize. Watching World trough Forrest Gamp
eyes, World will be better place to live! Simple, masterpiece of Robert
Zemeckis. Best movie that I ever see!

******
2 February 2005
10
As said in previous reviews, 1994 was a good year for movies. But in
the end one stood out among the crowd. This was "Forrest Gump". With
its compelling story, lovable cast, and filled with memorable, and
hilarious, moments, it blew away the competition.Hanks is probably one of my favorite actors, mostly because of this
role. I also enjoyed Gary Sinise and Sally Field in their roles. If I
had any complaints, it would be Robin Wright Penn and her character. I
mean Forrest isn't smart, but he can do better.Other than that, and a little unnecessary language, I simply loved this
film.

******
31 January 2005
8
1994 was the year where being dumb ruled in the cinemas. Two out of ten
top grossing movies of this year was about really idiotic or
simple-minded people. The first one being the Jim Carrey vehicle "Dumb
And Dumber" and the other one being "Forrest Gump" Though the first
movie just made the viewers laugh with puerile humour, the latter movie
provides a nostalgic travel through important events through history.
It is the second movie that I am going to talk about in this review.Spoiler Plots Dead Ahead!!! The movie's story is really "simple" to
pardon the pun. It is about this character that has a very low I.Q.,
who while waiting for a bus, seems to tell his life experiences to folk
next to him. It can be considered that this plot seems to be really
going nowhere, however Forrest life is pretty unique. He seems to
bumble into very important historical events in America's history
without ever realising. These events last from the 1960's to the
1990's. He got to meet very famous people like J.F.K., Lyndon Johnson,
Elvis, and John Lennon during his life. He fought in the Vietnam War,
and made a million in the shrimp business and investing in some kind of
fruit computer company. Even though he has experienced all these
amazing events and people, the only thing that makes him going is his
relentless love for Jenny, who is a childhood sweetheart who seems to
push him away.Tom Hanks acting is absolutely amazing in this movie, and probably did
his best role as the slow-witted Forrest Gump. He seems to play the
everyday man who seems to be in extraordinary events in most of his
movies, so therefore he is ideal in this movie. Sally Field plays one
of the most understandable and lovable mothers who do not seem to be so
saccharine sweet. Gary Sinse seems to play a really good role of Lt Dan
Taylor, and I thought that Robin Wright Penn was pretty good as Jenny.The soundtrack was essential to this movie, since it seems to
accentuate each scene with great poignancy. Also the music in this
movie got me at least singing to it, though I was not even born in half
the decades that the soundtrack had in it.It would have to be said that I actually liked this movie. I am not a
big fan of nostalgic movies, since I don't usually seem to connect to
such films like that. Also I am a bit of a cynic when it comes to such
films like these. Yet this movie seems to hit a a nerve with me and I
really enjoyed it and makes me escape to such a fantasy life like
Forrest Gump. Also this movie seem to show some social undertones, such
as the constant aftermath of Vietnam, (nowadays this would be Gulf War
II), the fighting against racism, (befriending Bubba during such racial
tensions), and sexual and physical mistreatments of women (shown many
times with Jenny). A final point to say is that in this movie, the
portrayal is that Mr Gump is seen as a stupid person. However, it is
the line which portrays the irony in this movie, "Stupid Is As Stupid
Does".It shows the rest of the people in this movie who seems to act out this
line, such as Jenny who seems to be in a constant spiral downwards into
hedonism and drugs, and Lt. Dan who seems to have gone mad when he lost
his legs. The movie shows that Gump only views the world in simple
terms and his morals are never waivered when everyone else's are
flipping back and forth over the blurry line of right and wrong.In conclusion, I think this is one of the most heart warming movies I
have ever seen and it is up there with "It's A Wonderful Life"
sentimentality with dark overtones. However I am still a cynic when it
comes to movies.

******
29 January 2005
10
First, let me say that 1994 was an excellent year for the Oscars. Such
movies as Pulp Fiction, Forrest Gump, The Shawshank Redemption, Quiz
Show, and Four Weddings and a funeral were the contenders for best
picture. It was a tough choice for the academy, but Forrest Gump went
home with the Oscar.The movie is a look back upon the life of a naive man named Forrest
Gump. He believed everything his mom taught him, and he was innocently
involved in some of the key events of the 20th century.The movie is funny at times because the audience clearly knows what is
going on around him, but he thinks almost nothing of it. There is some
good historical information in this movie, in fact, a high school
American History teacher could consider showing this movie at the end
of the year, because Forest Gump takes us back to the beginning of
American History, and progresses all the way through it.This is a long movie, but it is of very good quality, and I think it is
well worth your time.

******
23 January 2005
10
When I first watched this film ten years ago it was a wonderful and
captivating story and has still remained a favorite in my top ten list
of movies. Forrest Gump (Hanks) is a man with a low I.Q. whose been
involved in many historical events. While at a bus stop he tells
numerous people about the story of his life starting from when he was a
boy growing up in Alabama.Along the way he talks about meeting his
childhood sweetheart Jenny Curran (Penn) , being a football player, a
Vietnam war hero, a professional ping pong player and shrimp boat
captain. But nothing compared to the love he had for Jenny who always
managed to elude him over the years. Towards the end she tells him that
he has a son Forrst Gump Jr.(Osment) and that she has a virus and
doesn't have much time left. They get married and Jenny dies not too
long after wards. Forrest Gump is one of the best dramatic films of all
time Tom Hanks gave an academy award winning performance that captured
the eyes of viewers everywhere. The rest of the cast Mykelti
Williamson, Gary Sinise, Robin Wright Penn and Sally Field also did a
phenomenal job

******
19 January 2005
10
Despite the comedy, it touches the heart. You laugh and you cry. The
world and political time it portraits, one can easily relate to. The
special effects introduced were also ground breaking. You are taken on
a fast paced emotional ride. The tears come from the way the movie
drags you on this journey back and forth through utmost joy and bitter
sadness in an unrelenting way. It is a love story, a war story, a story
about friendship and family. It is about the dismal side and the
ultimate triumph of the human spirit. It teaches us also to laugh at
our situation, no matter what. A lovely picture that will endure for
sure.

******
29 November 2004
10
Genre: Drama/ComedyStar Rating: ***** out of 5Tom Hanks does an outstanding job in this wonderful movie classic!Tom Hanks plays a very unique character named Forrest Gump who has a
low I.Q. and his meeting with the love of his life Jenny (Robin Wright
Penn). The film chronicles his accidental experiences with some of the
most important people and events in America from the late 1950's
through the 1970's including a meeting with Elvis Presley, John
F.Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon, fighting in Vietnam, etc. The
problem is, he's too stupid to realize the significance of his actions.
Forrest becomes representative of the baby boomer generation having
walked through life blindly and has the time went on he learned a whole
lot more. The one thing I thought was pretty cool about Forrest Gump is
the way he plays ping-pong (or sometimes called table tennis)! I was
amazed during one part of the film where Forrest Gump ran all the way
to Arizona!This movie won 6 Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Actor in a
Leading Role, Best Director, Best Effects/Visual Effects, Best Film
Editing and Best Writing Screenplay.BOTTOM LINE: LIKE MY MOMMA ALWAYS SAYS LIFE IS LIKE A BOX OF
CHOCOLATES, YOU NEVER KNOW WHICH ONE YOU'RE GOING TO GET.

******
31 July 2004
10

I sat in the back of the movie theatre just in case I hated the film
then I would discreetly run out. Prior to this Hanks film, I had only
seen him in silly pictures doing his TV acting stuff. To my surprise, I
fell in love with Hanks watching this film. I don't think that tears
run down my cheeks easily but this movie had them streaming. I couldn't
stop myself even though the tears started burning my face. Tom Hanks
has become one of my favorite actors because of his remarkable
performance in this film. Certainly deserved many more Oscars. I can't
eat shrimp any more without thinking of all the different kinds of
dishes you can make with shrimp. Great work!!!


******
19 July 2004
10

A feather drifts softly through the air. It doesn't know where it's
going or what will happen. It just knows that it is drifting to its
next destination. That destination is a man waiting for a bus: Forrest
Gump. Forrest picks up the feather and puts it in his favourite picture
book. The movie has begun. We learn Forrest Gump's entire life story.
Despite his IQ of 75, he achieves greatness in the world.This may sound like the start of a sappy film, but it isn't. Forrest
Gump grabs you and takes you on an incredible journey. Around every
corner there is a new surprise. Some are comical, other extremely
dramatical. But every minute of the film is interesting.Tom Hanks did an outstanding job as Forrest Gump. The supporting cast
were amazing as well, especially Gary Sinise. But this is not the best
thing about the film: the story is. The story writers have managed to
create a story of pure beauty. Forrest Gump is an extremely fragile, beautiful film. I have seen this
film five times now and it still makes me cry in the end. A truly
amazing movie.


******
18 July 2004
8

CONTAINS SPOILERS"Forrest Gump" is a very creative and clever movie that tells roughly thirty
years of recent American history through the eyes of a rather stupid person
who somehow manages to be present at many important events of the last half
century. Tom Hanks, as Forrest Gump, meets three american presidents,
inspires Elvis and John Lennon, becomes a war hero in Vietnam, and much
more. I must say that I had my doubts when I heard about this movie, but much to
my surprise I found this movie to be often very funny. It's not a movie that
constantly has you laughing out loud, but several jokes like Forrest
teaching Elvis to dance are priceless, and there are a lot of quotable
one-liners. Looking at other comments, I see that people have tried to see
all kinds of political agendas behind this movie, but for the most part I
think it should just be taken as harmless fun, although there are a couple
of clear points of criticism (e.g. the movie claims that stupidity is the
key to succeeding in the army, and that you can get a college degree by just
being good at sports). Technically, this movie is great. The special effects people have done a
great job of making it look like Forrest Gump really was a part of history,
and the costumes and settings are all completely convincing. The acting is
also superb. Tom Hanks makes Forrest totally convincing, and the rest of the
cast is great as well. Gary Sinise is probably the most underrated actor
ever, this man deserves to get leading roles, not just supporting ones.I do have a couple of gripes with this movie. For one, at over
two-and-a-half hours, it's a bit on the long side. After about
one-and-a-half hours, the novelty wears off a bit and while there are still
some good scenes in the second part of the movie, the first half is
definitely better. Also, towards the end the movie succumbs a bit too much
into sentimentality. I mean, was it really necessary to overdo the tragic
romance (including very tragic ending) between Jenny and Forrest in this
way? In a movie that's mostly fairly lighthearted, putting so much emphasis
on the rather melodramatic romance just seems a bit misplaced.All in all though, "Forrest Gump" is a very amusing movie and often
hilarious movie with a clever plot and superb acting, that unfortunately
drags on for a bit too long and succumbs a bit to sentimentality in the end.*** out of **** stars

******
16 July 2004
10

[WARNING: MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS.] I don't know what the critics might
think. Call it a baffoonery if you will. I loved this movie to no end.
It is a perfect, -perfect- example of a movie-making masterpiece, and
deserves every bit of praise it has, and then some. The scene where
Lieutenant Dan Taylor is fighting the hurricane, is showing that man
can triumph, even when, and literally in this case, life cuts your legs
out from under you. The reason I love this movie so much is not just
because of it's wonderful figuratisms and outstanding symbolism, but
because of it's un-opinionated view on American life from 1950 to 1985.
It shows a man, who yes, may be a little slow, that sees the world for
what it is and takes everything literally, without watering it down or
making it seem better than it really is. He takes everything in, and
usually through one word, or on occasion, a long speech, sums
everything up, and makes everyone understand it the way he understands
it. In conclusion, the critics can keep their petty under-scored
"reviews" to themselves. I loved the movie, and would recommend it to
-any- person who loves good movies.


******
27 April 2004
10

         Forrest Gump is easily a great movie. Tom Hanks played so well as
Forrest, a shy but very understanding and good man. The plot was very well
and got me through my problems. This might be the best of 1994, if not that,
than it's one of the best. The tagline made people want to see this film and
it did huge in the box office. This had action, emotion, comedy, and
friendship which put people into a different outlook on life. I think every
person should watch this film. You have to se it through Forrest Gump's eyes
to believe the unbelievable. If your having stress over life, please see
this film and you could change different personalities, totally. See this
film!!10/10   

******
28 October 2003
9
...Robert Zemeckis' Forrest Gump is a cinematic achievement.  Tom
Hanks
plays Forrest, a mentally handicapped man living through the turbulent
times
of American history.  Hanks gives an awe-inspiring performance; you can
literally see the naive innocence within Hanks' eyes while he plays a man
who only wants to do what's right and be the one that he loves.
Technically, the movie is a marvel to behold.  You see Forrest in these
situations with famous American icons, and for a moment you almost believe
that it really happened.  It'll have you laughing and crying almost at the
same time.  For anyone that loves movies, Forrest Gump is definitely
something to buy and keep for your own...    

******
27 October 2003
10

I loved this movie.  While I love movies that really make me think and do
so
in interesting ways, I'm still a kid at heart.  I love romance, I love
human
kindness, and I love the thought of people doing things out of "goodness",
not self interest.Forrest Gump doesn't have a twist ending, it doesn't have explosions, it
doesn't have car chases, it doesn't have sexy actors, and it doesn't
explore
the depths our imaginations.  The movie, like Forrest himself, is simple.
Very simple.  Also like Forrest's life though, the movie's simplisticness
leaves you to marvel at how much good can come from it.I laughed repeatedly.  I cried hard at different points - some out of
sadness, but most out of pure joy.  If I had been "thinking" more about
the
plot, the characters, etc, I probably would not have been able to deeply
feel such basic emotions.  But because the movie, story, and characters
are
so simple, these often overlooked emotions were able to be enjoyed at such
a
pure level.Highly recommended - just don't expect anything deep or
thought-provoking...
looking for it will definitely detract from the experience.  Enjoy Forrest
and enjoy his life "story".

******
1 May 2003
8

Tom Hanks' memorable performance as the ultra special Forrest Gump who does
a lot of strange but fascinating things in his life such as; running across
the United States of America too many times not stopping, saving a troop in
Vietnam, playing tennis with himself and much more. The movie is so great
and fascinating, inspiring and entertaining that you can't take your eyes
off it.Beautiful and an very deserving Oscar - winner, huge and
extatic!
STARS: ***** 5/5

******
23 April 2003
10

Forrest Gump is quite simply one of the best films ever made. If The
Academy
would've given the  Oscar to Pulp Fiction, like others have suggested, it
would've been their worst moment hands down. I love this film and to the
people who don't like it they either don't get it, or they're jumping on
some kinda bandwagon. Anyway 4 out of 4 stars.

******
22 April 2003
8

I liked it, good music does alot.
Tom hanks is perfection.
good directing by the director,
It's really different got to see it. 8/10

******
30 March 2003
10

Forrest Gump is one of the best movies ever. Period. The acting is
amazing,
and even though it came out in 1994, it's still a blast to watch. Tom
Hanks
so perfectly captures the role, it's like watching an auto-biography. The
war is perfectly captured, and so is everything else. Just one tiny
problem-
it's to long at 142 minutes. Oh well. 10/10.

******
24 March 2003
10
...with class, wit, and genuine pathos, instead of the mawkish
tripe of
mercenary weepfests like Men of Honor, A Beautiful Mind and (gak) Pearl
Harbor. While the creators of such movies meticulously contrive each scene
to be a tear-jerking, heart-rending epiphany into the human spirit, the
makers of Forrest Gump set out to tell what is simply a great story of one
man's life, where all emotion is merely an honest by-product and nothing
more.
The movie's unique sense of humor makes it clear early on how it doesn't
plan to take its subject matter too seriously, and when the occasional
sentimental scene does crop up, it's executed in a way that is
surprisingly
not cloying or embarrassing. At all. Very un-Hollywood.Cliff notes version: Well written, well acted, well done.
10/10

******
23 March 2003
10

Forrest Gump is the best movie. It has a great story, a lot of attention
to
details and strong characters. This movie always brings tears into my
eyes.
Has a very strong sensibility and great landscapes in the end. It also
shows
us that we can do anything, we just have to follow our way. You have to
see
it to appreciate it. It's simply the best.

******
28 February 2003
10

this is the best film i have ever seen. tom hanks plays the role of
forrest
gump perfectly. certain parts of this film still make me cry even after
watching it for the 50th time. anyone who doesnt like this film must be
poorly raised trailer trash, and thats all i have to say about
that.

******
12 February 2003
10

If you haven't seen Forrest Gump you really shouldn't even be on this
website, this is one of the greatest films ever so you must go and watch
now
in order to make a judgement on any other film ever made, this one sets
the
standard for the films of my generation and is an asset to Hollywood. But
for me, what makes this film stand out more than any other with a
genuinely
moving intelligent screenplay is not the unforgettable moments with quotes
such as  'life is like a box of chocolates, you never know which one
you're
going to get' which eloquently explains the questions of the universe nor
is
it the endearing character study supported by some of the finest actors in
the industry (Sally Field, Robin Right Penn, Gary Sinise and Mykelti
Williamson are all exceptional) but it is one man- Tom Hanks. Although
'everybody casts Tom Hanks'and the question why? is always asked, well
this
answers all questions.  In his best performance of his career he earned
his
Oscar with every-compelling moment he is on the screen. Every aspiring
actor
should be frantically taking notes of this outstanding display of acting.
perfect.

******
25 January 2003
10

(10 out of 10)  When I was 15, I saw 'Star Wars' on the big screen for the
first time.  I saw it many times that summer, and as a 15 year-old boy, it
had a tremendous influence on me.  No movie came close to supplanting Star
Wars as my all-time favorite movie until 'Forrest Gump.'I saw 'Forrest Gump' on the big-screen six times, and many times on video
since then.  It is the most life-affirming movie I've ever
seen.I don't give 10's to movies very often.  A great movie should get a 9.  The
difference between a 9 and a 10 is feeling.  How does the movie make you
feel after you've seen it?  How long do the images stick with
you?There is not a single scene in 'Forrest Gump' that is without thought and
feeling.  The movie is hilarious and tragic.  It is soulful and charming. 
It is incredibly sad and emotionally uplifting.  A true rollercoaster of
genuine feelings.  Set against the backdrop of the 50's through 80's, it has
that nostalgic and true ring to it.  It has to, since what happens to
Forrest, Forrest Gump, is incredible.The movie is audacious to say the least.  Any other film that puts its
no-name central character with people ranging from Elvis to Nixon will seem
like a copycat of this one.Hanks is absolutely superb.  The previous year he won an Oscar for his most
sincere work, 'Philadelphia'.  He won THIS Oscar for his most seminal work. 
It will probably be the movie he will most be remembered by, even though he
has decades of movies ahead of him.The team that put this together, most notably Robert Zemeckis, did a great
job with everything from characters to celebrity appearances to classic
music setting the mood (listen to "Camelot" playing in the background as
Forrest is in the JFK White House).The weakest parts of the film are Robin Wright Penn, who is a good actress,
but not great, and the running scenes.  But since Robin is not in the film
that much, it's okay.  And the running towards the end actually give a bit
of a breather, I feel, so I'm not bothered by it.With all of the ups and downs in the film, how can I say this is the most
life-affirming movie I've ever seen?  Because at the end of the day, Forrest
Gump is a man who has been to hell and back, who has lost loved ones, who
has struggled with his place in the world, and managed to come through it
all with sweetness and love.  The world changed, and in some ways Forrest
changed with it, but he is not jaded by it, as you and I are.  If we could
be as simple as Forrest, mightn't we be happier?

******
16 January 2003
10

When watching this film, you just have to let yourself get caught up in
the
movie itself. Looking at the unrealistic aspects of it and critizising
them
won't allow you to get the full affect of the movie. It is just a story.
An
illogical one that could never have happened in real life, but if you
accept
it as being true and let yourself get caught up in it, the story becomes
incredible. The story combined with the outstanding acting by the five
main
characters (Gump, Jenny, Bubba, Lt. Dan, and Momma) shows the influence of
major historical events on our society. But it shows it through the eyes
of
a person that doesn't recognize the importance of each of them. The other
characters are affected a great deal. Vietnam killed Bubba. It nearly
killed
Lt. Dan, but instead sent him into a depression that only Gump's naiveness
could have saved him from. And of course Jenny might have been the most
influenced of all. She represented an abused child, a runaway, a hippy, a
drug addict, a slut, and the aids virus. This girl probably went straight
to
hell when she died but Gump couldn't see her faults.  He was in love,
which
was the only thing that affected him throughout the movie. Nothing else
really mattered to him in the end. He cared for people that cared for him,
or that he thought cared for him. He did things for his friends that none
of
us would ever do because we would be looked at as stupid or crazy. He
bought
a shrimping boat because of a promise he made to Bubba. What kind of moron
would buy a shrimping boat if he had never done any shrimping before in
his
life. Forrest Gump did and he eventually became a rich man because he
didn't
know any better. For those of you that don't like this movie, you're
looking
at it the wrong way.  From what I've heard people either love it or hate
it.
I love it and apparently most other film critics do if it won best
picture.
Pulp Fiction is one of my favorite movies and so is Shawshank. They were
both incredible and unforgettable. But they weren't quite as good as
Forrest
Gump.

******
6 November 2002
10

There is so much to love about this dynamic movie and I think it very richly
deserved every Academy Award that it won.  It takes us on such an excellent
trip through three decades of history and tells an extremely entertaining
and inspiring story of how a simple minded man went on to accomplish so
much.  This is one movie that I never get tired of watching and is most
definitely an all time favorite on my list.  

******
2 November 2002
10
Leonard Maltin is usually right on, so I guess he can be forgiven for
blowing this one (and for missing Animal House). Sound and Fury-esquire
story of idiot savant Hanks, not the sharpest tool in the shed but
capable of some simple observations about living. And he gets to make a
lot of observations across several decades of an eventful life, in a
true tour de force by Hanks. Trick photography, placing Hanks with
celebrities of the times, doesn't overshadow main tale of Hank's
life-long romance with troubled Wright. Solid supporting cast is
highlighted by Gary Sinise as injured Vietnam war buddy; look late for
Sixth Sense's child star as Forrest's son. Detractors may be taking
this movie too seriously, I don't think it means to be that
pretentious. Few movies in the last 50 years are so simply and
beautifully told; just sit back and enjoy.

******
20 September 2002
9

I have seen this film X amount of times and find it brilliant every time
i
watch it.  It'a a mixture of all genre's of film rolled into 1. It's One
of
the many films in which i love!!!!  If i was to give a summary of this
film
i would just say fantastic!!!

******
12 September 2002
10

I saw this movie, years ago, when it was first released, and amcommenting on it now, years later, as it is and always will be oneof my favorite films.  Everyone has a little, or a lot of Forrest inthem. Though not all share his IQ, or his talents, I think all peopleshare some of his heart. Forrest is the ultimate everyman.  Hispositive outlook on life, no matter the instance, and enjoyment ofthe small things,  is something that inspires. Also Lt. Dan isrelatable for the rest of us, who have a more pessimistic outlookon things, but even in the end, he sees how to be grateful for hislife, and live it, which is what most people want, I think.  The lovestory between Forrest and Jenny, is also one of the most beautifulin film history I feel, entirely pure to the core, yet not a perfectjourney, or ending. The incredible acting by the entire cast, butespecially the three leads, just cemente this beautiful story as oneof the greatest films ever made. The score is also amazing, andhelps us along the journey, to get lost in Forrest's world.

******
11 September 2002
10

Forrest Gump has many messages.Some of which are less apparent than
others.But the most outstanding message is an advice not to give up on
life.This is said by comparing Forrest's life with the lives of those
around
him.Another important message is that time heals all wounds and we see
that
how the passage of time brings cheer to even the most rankled hearts."Life
is like a box of chocolates.You never know what you're gonna get."and
another refreshing sentence "My momma always said:You got to put the past
behind you before you can move on.".Yes,life is too short,so always try to
be a strong and compassionate person and don't be afraid of falling in
love
because love gives you an extraordinary power.It's what he is trying to
teach us.


******
10 September 2002
10

This will go down as one of the greatest movies of all time! It is so
great
to see that Zemekis has used Hanks in other movies since "Gump". Hanks is
at
the top of his game...and doesn't seem to be showing any signs of letting
up!

******
28 August 2002
9

If you have not had the opportunity to watch Forrest Gump at least twice I
recommend that you take the time to do so.  The first time you watch the
film it is easy to like the film just based on Tom Hank's excellent
performance and some of the amazing special effects.  It wasn't until the
second time I watched the picture that I started to notice the detail that
the writer put into foreshadowing and symbolism.  Without giving away any
crucial elements in the picture I will simply write...pay close attention
to
his shoes in the picture and everything they ever say about feet.  Pay even
closer attention to Forrest's first conversation with Lt. Dan.  It
foreshadows their entire relationship.  I gave the movie a 9 out of 10 for
it's beautiful glimpse into one man's life and it's philosophical view on
how everyone's "life is like a box of chocolates".

******
14 August 2002
10

"Forrest Gump" is one of best movies I have ever seen! I remember seeing it
in theaters and now I own it on DVD. The story tells us about the life of
Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), a slow-witted but a good-hearted man from the
mid-1950s to the early-1980s who falls in love with his childhood best
friend Jenny (Robin Wright) who finds the ability to run fast takes him
places. As a football player, he met President John F. Kennedy, as a soldier
in Vietnam he was a war hero, and as a ping-pong player he met President
Richard Nixon. Later, becoming a shrimp-boat captain, he still yearns for
the love of his life, who takes quite a different path in life. "Forrest
Gump" is a movie that won 6 well-deserved Academy Awards including Best
Picture, Best Actor for Tom Hanks, and Best Director for Robert Zemeckis.
Excellent!10/10 stars!

******
11 August 2002
10

To say that this movie is only good for Americans would be nonsense. Even if
you don't have a clue about the American history - this movie is a
contribution to the human soul! I can't find the words to describe how
special it is... I can't even say that Tom Hanks was great in it, because to
me it wasn't an actor, to me Forrest Gump is real... Tom Hanks surpassed
himself, which is hard to imagine... He's just a phenomenon. Ever since I
was little, this is just more than a movie to me. 

******
28 July 2002
10

I honestly thought there was no way you could NOT like this movie.  Well,
apparently I was wrong.  
It's absolutely incredible!  The movie discontinues an increasing trend that
movies are held up by great effects rather than great acting.  The three
lead actors (Tom Hanks, Robin Wright, Gary Sinise) all deserved Oscars for
their stellar work.
True, this follows the ingredients to get Oscars, BUT, it helped pave the
way for that "recipe."
10/10

******
9 June 2002
10

Forrest Gump is probably the most under-rated movie of all time.  Two types
of people watched this movie:  Those who lived through the entirety of the
movie, and those who have only experienced a little of those time periods. The first type of viewer watched a re-lived those shocking moments in
history, as well feeling the general mood shifts of a generation.  The
second type learned more by watching those scenes throughout the movie, than
they will ever learn reading textbooks about those same events.Whether you re-lived the experience, or travelled back in time to feel them
for the first time, chances are that this movie touched you in a way not
many other movies have.   

******
7 June 2002
9

1994 was a decent year for movies.I don't think they could have chosen a
better person for the part. This film is a great modern fable but it is
very
namby pamby.This movie has some of the most memorable characters in
history!*9/10*

******
24 May 2002
10

Forrest Gump is one of those movies where you want to jump through the
screen and give the helpless a big hug and help them along life's way.  Tom
Hanks did a beautiful job as Forrest Gump.  I don't think they could have
chosen a better person for the part.  Mykelti Williamson (Benjamin 'Bubba'
Bufford-Blue) was superb and very believable.  For months after this movie,
the kids were going around the house trying to think up new 'shrimp'
recipes!  Robin Wright (Jenny) was really good.  Her character was one that
you wanted to love yet hate, but not in a bad way.  Forrest loved Jenny so
very much and only when she REALLY needs him, she turns to him in the
biggest way.  I highly recommend this movie for the whole family.  It is fun, loving,
sensitive and amazing all at the same time.  I gave it a 10!!! 


******
23 May 2002
10

*Forrest Gump*1994 was a decent year for movies.  Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank
Redemption were good films.  So was Forrest Gump.  It's really starting to
make me angry seeing people pan this movie so much!  It's not a bad movies! 
I have seen thousands of worse films.  And quite frankly this one was better
than Shawshank, but not as good as Pulp Fiction.  But who can see the
Academy giving the Oscar to Pulp Fiction, anyway?It's sad to know this movie can't be disscussed without talking about those
other movies.  I believe people need to get over it!  What does the Academy
know anyway?  They gave an Oscar to Opie! Moving on, this movie has great acting.  Tom Hanks is perfect for the role
as a slow-witted southerner.  That didn't sound very nice...  I like Hanks,
I think he's made some of the best films of the 90's!  But his Oscar was
well-deserved.  Robin Wright does a great job as Jenny (or as Forrest might
say 'Jen-nay').  And Gary Sinese was hilarious as Captian Dan. This movie has some of the most memorable characters in history!  Not to
mention it's one of the most quoted movies (Life is like a box of
chocolates, stupid is as stupid does, exc).  So, yes, it deserved winning best picture that year.  It was a great movie,
probably on my top 100 of all time list!  *9.5/10*

******
23 May 2002
10

This has to be one of the best movie I have ever seen in my entire life. 
Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump, a mentally challenged man who just happens to
make history over his life.  He makes history like inspiring Elvis's dance,
the smiley face and all sorts of stuff.  He is great playing Forrest and I
enjoyed him all the way.  Sally Field, Gary Sinise, and Mykelti Williamson
were all really good as the other characters who help Forrest in his life. 
Robin Wright is also very good as Jenny, the one and only person that
Forrest loves and also gets some history in her.  I enjoyed everyone's
performance and Robert Zemeckis made himself a true gem here.  He's a great
director alone but this made him one of the best.Overall Tom Hanks is wonderful and everybody else does really good too. 
Robert Zemeckis did great with this and he is possibly one of the greatest
directors of all time.  This movie is possibly one of the greatest movie of
all time.  Rating 10.5 out of 10.  (Second favorite movie)

******
21 May 2002
8

FORREST GUMP  was the best movie of 1994. Tom Hanks is completely endearing
as Forrest, a simple guy shortchanged in the IQ department, who proves that
brains aren't the only things needed to succeed in this world. The movie,
beautifully directed by Robert Zemeckis, has a nostalgic sweep that will
carry you away. The opening shot of a feather on its way to earth is enough
to make you gasp aloud, and the movie is just barely underway. Forrest Gump
is also a wonder of special effects, but the less said about them, the
better. The trailer and promotional pieces gave away much too much of the
story. Admittedly, this movie has more than its share of plot, as it covers
the decades of the '50s through the '90s. It also makes numerous pit stops
along the way to encompass the momentous events that molded the times.The Gump saga begins back in the 1950s under the cloud known as polio.
Throughout the years that follow, Forrest must contend with his score of 75
on an IQ test, but the braces on his legs don't hold him back for long.
Forrest, who sometimes brings to mind the innocent simpleton hero Charlie
Babbit, manages to make quite a few surprising contributions to society
without even trying. Sure, some of the movie is sappy, but it is served up
with consummate skill and a loving heart. The supporting cast is cannily
chosen. Sally ("You like me, you really like me") Fields, who plays
Forrest's mother, may hereafter be known as Sally ("Life is like a box of
chocolates") Fields. You never know what you're gonna get.

******
7 May 2002
10

I had not seen "Forrest Gump" in many months, but upon seeing it once again,
I can't think of a better way to spend a couple of hours in front of the TV.
The movie is perfectly done: everybody who you're supposed to like (Forrest,
his mother, Lieutenant Dan, Bubba), you like; everybody who you're supposed
to dislike (Jenny, Dan at the beginning of the movie), you dislike. In such
a dramatic movie, it's amazing that it can still be so funny- or, in a
comedic movie, it's amazing that it can still be so dramatic. The shots of
war are brilliant, and it's easy to believe that the action is real. Tom
Hanks played Forrest as well as he acted in any movie, and Sally Field did
not get enough respect for her performance. I'm sure there are tons of
people who can say something about "Forrest" better than I can, but I've
liked this movie since my early teens, and I still love it whenever I have
the pleasure of viewing it.

******
4 May 2002
9

What can be said about this film, it was the big one at the time in 1994 and
now 8 years later after much smoke has cleared on this movie, I have sat
down and watched and still I find this movie to be one of the greatest tales
to ever be told. The modern journey of a man on his quest for the woman he
loves. Any actor should analyze Tom Hanks in this film for we see him pull
off a very dramatic role without overdoing it


******
3 May 2002
10

*~-S P O I L E R-~*A briliant brilliant movie, about a kid, in which his IQ is 75,
making
him different.
and from the beginning of the movie, even before the story begins, you see
thet forrest is the great great grandchild of admiral forrest, the man who
created the KKK's.
And from giving Elvis Presly the unique "leg-shakin'" move, in his video "I
ain't nothing but a hound dog".
and from there on, he is appearing with great presidents (I don't know how
they did this! these are the real presidents!), and making diffrance, even
if it's the biggest thing, like saving souls in the viatnam war, and
setting
the record of running two years in a row,  or by inventing the "SMILEY" ;)
:) :( or inventing the sticker "S*** happens", the world will never be the
same once youve seen it through the eyes, of forrest gump...
And the famous saying, that life is like a box of chocolate, is
true.
you can really never guess what comes later, and later.
every thing they say matters.
so, if you'r gonna watch it, watch twice, or three times.
if you can, in a row. it will explain lots'a things.

******
2 May 2002
10

Forrest Gump (1994) Rating: 10/10Tom Hanks is undeniably an incredibly gifted actor, and this is his best
performance. In Forrest Gump, he creates an unforgettable character,
arguably the most memorable of the 90s. Forrest, Forrest Gump is a good
natured guy who only has one weakness: he's a little slower than average.
But in many ways, he's superior to most so-called "normal" people. You
rarely see a man with so much enthusiasm and good will! His great
personality added to the undying love of his mother (Sally Field at her
best) helped to give him an unbelievable life, filled with memories. And as
the film begins, Gump, sitting on his bench with a box of chocolates, tells
strangers his fascinating story. The film's ingenious script has him
involved in every major American event from the 50s to the 80s. He meets
everyone from Elvis to John Lennon, from Kennedy to Nixon. Star quarterback
in college and world champion Ping-Pong player some years later, he even
finds the time to go fight for his country in Vietnam. Perfect example of
the American Dream, the simple little boy who even achieves to become
godzillionaire!Just then, director Robert Zemeckis and Hanks would have accomplish a great
task, namely telling their country's recent history through the eyes of a
simple man, putting everything under a new, uncynical light. But the film
also contains one of the most touching of love stories between Forrest and
his lifelong love Jenny. She might have been a "normal" kid, but she didn't
have it as easy as her buddy. After a traumatizing childhood thanks to an
abusive father, Jenny goes through all the downsides and fake hopes of that
same Dream, from strip clubs to thankless waitress jobs. And in the midst
of
that, she follows the traces of Timothy Leary and gets into San Francisco's
acid culture, go hippie and protest war and even end up snorting coke in
70s
discos. But Forrest still looks after her, and they have the sweetest
moments together...Zemeckis sure can be proud of his Oscar-winning work. While telling a
deeply
involving story that walks the thin line between drama and comedy, he
shoots
countless references to events and people. Even though none of them lasts
much more than 15 minutes or so, each of Gump's "adventures" feels like a
movie of its own. Just take the riveting war sequences, or the man's 3
year-long run. Zemeckis directs his cast perfectly. Besides Tom
"two-Oscars-in-a-row" Hanks, there's the talented Robin Wright as the
lovable if flawed Jenny (who I can't believe wasn't even nominated for an
Oscar), Gary Sinise as the intense Lieutenant Dan and Mykelti Williamson
(whoever that is) as Forrest's shrimp-lovin' war buddy Bubba. The
soundtrack
by itself is incredible, covering pretty much all the important music over
30 years, and Alan Silvestri's score is restrained but efficient at
underlining the film's emotional core. There's only one word to truly
describe Forrest Gump: magical.

******
28 April 2002
9

Forrest Gumps is a charming film that captivates audiences and wraps you
up
in a beautiful story about life and the american dream. This movie is the
stuff that dreams are made of and the characters easily warm your heart. I
saw this movie during the summer of 1994 with little idea of what the film
was about but I was blown away by this humorous tale of a man with a good
heart who always winds up doing the right thing. I was transported to the
racially torn south of the 1960's and the brutal battlefields of Vietnam.
I
would say that this film is certainly an epic and I've always felt it was
an
emotional rollercoaster. This film is not easily forgotten and has that
magic that only so many films have. Tom Hanks gives one of the best
performances ever in film history. Briliant storytelling, great special
effects, and an incredible soundtrack work together to create the classic
that is Forrest Gump.

******
10 April 2002
9
I always feel I am watching something magical when I watch "Forest Gump". It
is more than Tom Hanks amazing performance. It is the script, the special
effects, the supporting cast and the great movie score and music of the
film. Maybe we need people like Forest Gump in the world. My only regret is
that this movie came out the same year as another classic, "The Shawshank
Redemption". That is my only regret- that "Forest Gump" took most of the
major awards at the Academy Awards that year. Both deserved Best picture and
both are gifts to the world of entertainment.

******
16 February 2002
8

People who dislike "Forrest Gump" simply because it won a Best Picture Oscar
over modern classics like "Pulp Fiction" or "The Shawshank Redemption" are
doing the film a disservice.  Nobody really considers the Oscars to be a
true indicator of artistic merit anyway.  Director Robert Zemeckis has
created an excellent fantasy that manages to combine comedy, drama and
emotion.  It is not a perfect film, true, but it's still better than ninety
percent of the movies out there.    

******
11 February 2002
8

This film was wonderful mainly because of Tom Hank's excellent performance,
Robert Zemeckis' great job of directing and the beautiful score by Alan
Silvestri. Forrest reminded me of an child--someone innocent--exposed to the
cruelties of the real world. As a man who was honest, caring, and with high
morals, he's stepped on by others who engage in their own selfish pursuits.
Forrest Gump may not have been the brightest person of all time, but his
loving heart more than made up for what he lacked in his IQ. This is a great
movie. I strongly advise you rent it.

******
6 February 2002
10

WE lived, we live and we will. chronology sets the record, but emotions
flow
through without any documents, in our chromosomes. we nurture them from
ages
and die with them. but the seeds remain.
this movie is not only history. its the hereditary transportation of human
lives. its the wonderful portrait of a changing America, the powerful
nation, and a very simple yet a gifted man who lived through these
changes.
the oral expression is his, but the view, its left on to you. it is not
only
viewing. it is the best hangover that will last for quite a
while!

******
18 January 2002
10

I think this film is an absolute masterpiece. The performances from all
involved, the music, the screenplay, the effects; in short it was a
classic
from the moment it was edited.
Tom Hanks is superb as Forrest Gump and delivers an amazing performance as
the innocently naive boy from Green Bow, Alabama. I really can't dwell on
anything in particular, so if you happen to read this review, the only
thing
I would suggest would be to review it personally. Watch it yourself, and
I'm
certain it'll have an effect on you. A powerful film, one of my all time
favourites.

******
6 January 2002
8
'Forrest Gump' is a wonderful movie. Forrest grows up as a mentally and
physically challenged kid who goes on to inspire others and represent
what is good and bad in American life, essentially embodying the idea
of 'The American Dream'. The wonderful and clever use of inserting Tom
Hanks (as Forrest) into the famous clips of notable people (from JFK to
John Lennon) is gimmicky but it works and makes for a marvellous film.
The period feeling of he times that Forrest moves through from meeting
Elvis to serving in the Vietnam War are so real. Forrest Gump is a kind
of biography of the USA from the 50's to the 80's and has a lot to say
about these times. This is a great movie!

******
6 December 2001
9

Just imagine going to see a movie that all the critics of your country had
described as a real waste of time and money, while all the other people
who
went to see it, thought it was a beautiful, heart-touching and perfectly
done piece of art. Well, I guess that was the reason I went to see it at
first place: all the controversy!! And you know what: even though it might
lack what is needed to have the critics go crazy about, it surely has
everything that is requested to make you pass a very good time and left
you
with the sensation that life is priceless,  that the people you love are
very, very important and that, with a little luck, anything can work out
just fine. But I am not a critic, so watch for yourself and enjoy
it.

******
3 November 2001
10

This is an excellent movie with no spoilers at all. It follows the life of
a
man who is not very smart but has a beautiful heart.But what's most
important it shows us how we should look at life. You will laugh at
scenes,
you will cry at scenes.Excellent peformance by tom hanks as forrest
gump.NO
WONDER he got the oscar he well deserved in 1995. So if you go at your
local
video store,BE SURE TO PICK THIS ONE UP,and once your done watching it you
will see how it will change your view on life.
10 stars out of ten.CHEERS TO YOU FORREST!

******
23 October 2001
10

As you hear the wonderful music playing while the camera is following the
feather in the first scene, you will realize that you are watching a great
movie. Packed with great directing, acting, music and editing, Forrest
Gump
can be considered a film-making wonder.Tom Hanks brings Forrest Gump to life in one of the most incredible
performance I have ever seen. Add that to the lovable story and
breath-taking visuals and special effects, Forrest Gump will hold you from
beginning to end.But what really makes Forrest Gump great is the performance of Robin
Wright-Penn an Jenny. When Forrest is with her, the audience will feel
joy.
When Forrest misses her, the audience will also miss her and feel sad. And
after the movie is finished, Forrest and Jenny will still be in your head.
And in my case, it will be forever.

******
15 October 2001
10

Forrest Gump is one of my favourite movies and has to be one of the most
feelgood movies of our time. However I feel that people are unnecessarily
harsh on the film due to the success it recieved at the academy awards. It
beat Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank Redemption to the Best Picture Oscar
and
has been criticised since. All three films are superb movies in their own
right, ( Shawshank just shading it as my favourite), and should be enjoyed
on their own merits rather than on what they prevented others
doing.I may be wrong but I feel a lot of the criticism of the film is due to the
academy awards and that if Forrest Gump had won on a different year it
would
not suffer the criticism it does.Anyway on with the film. Hanks was brilliant as usual and the support
players especially Sinise, and Williamson will live long in the memory. OK
towards the end there are too manny references on how Forrest misses Jenny
(
e.g naming the boat )but overall I think Robert Zemeckis balances out the
emotional with the humorous and it is close to a perfect
film.1994 was truly a great film and the arguments about who should have won
will
go on and on, just be grateful that 3 splendid films came out together. It
has not happened since.

******
29 September 2001
10

Gumption: noun; common sense, horse sense, initiative, enterprise
(Merriam-Webster). Chop off the back half of that word and you have Forrest
Gump, a towering fountain of stand-alone common sense in a nonsensical world
gone crazy.In a recent letter, a friend told me that she had just watched "Forrest
Gump" and that she "loved that movie." Although it had been some seven years
since I had seen it, her comment to me reminded me that I, too, had once
"loved that movie." When it suddenly showed up on TV last night, I felt the
urge, the need, for a refresher course on what it is like to be a Forrest
Gump in a world of schlumps, myself included. Moreover, I needed the sanity
and serenity of Forrest Gump the man to assuage the insanity and unserenity
that has been the month of September of 2001. I have been
assuaged.By now, almost anyone who watches movies has seen "Forrest Gump." At least
once. Thus, we all know that it cannot be classified as a comedy. Nor as a
drama. Nor an adventure. Nor a charmer. Nor a tearjerker. And yet, it is all
of those things, all in one movie. "Forrest Gump," when and as you are
watching it, reminds you constantly that there IS good in the world. Even as
you are watching bad events transpire in the movie, you seem to know that
somehow, good will eventually result. That is because Forrest Gump is nearby
-- around -- somewhere -- and wherever Forrest goes, goodness
follows.My favorite movie actor is, was and always will be Jimmy Stewart. With Jimmy
gone and no longer with us, Tom Hanks has taken his place. In my heart. Just
as Jimmy was in so very many of his famous and fabulous roles, Tom has
become the American Everyman. He's the guy for whom you always root. You
want him to triumph. You want him to get the girl. He HAS to get the girl!
Even if the worth of the girl to be gotten is open to question, you STILL
want him to get her, if only because he has always loved her and will always
love her so unfailingly and so unconditionally. And when, at last, his
unrequited love for his beloved Jenny (Robin Wright) is finally so
deservedly rewarded, you feel as if you want to jump up and shout ...
"HALLELUJAH!!!" Then, when Jenny tenderly tells Forrest that he is the
father of her sweet little Forrest Jr., you think to yourself and you say to
yourself, "Yes, Self! That is right! That is as it should
be!"And that is right and that is as it should be about this entire movie. Even
Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise), Forrest's self-loathing and loathable army buddy, is
unable to avoid Forrest's goodness wearing off on him. Forrest "touches"
everyone. And he doesn't even know it! He's just a guy living his life. He
just ... is ... Forrest Gump, a guy with gumption in a gumptionless
world.I am so very glad and happy that my friend told me she saw "Forrest Gump"
and that she "loved that movie." She spurred me to watch it once again.
Having now done so, I feel that Forrest has restored both peace and love to
my troubled mind and heart over the awful events of September of 2001. He is
a reminder to us all that no matter how many Hitlers, Stalins and bin Ladens
may rise and fall, we will always have a Forrest Gump to help pull us thru
the evils that these evil men do. Peace and love to you, Forrest. 


******
29 September 2001
8

I never saw Forrest Gump at the movie, for some reason just the title seem
to
turn me off, I can't tell you how wrong I was.I believe this is one the the most beautiful films I'm seen in quite a
while.  This movie will touch upon all your emotions, some scenes will make
you want to laugh, other scenes will make you want to cry and you will come
away with a little different attitude about what life is all about.  Its
like a box of chocolates you never know what you're going to getI applaud the characters and the actors, especially Tom Hanks he just did a
wonder job.I would highly recommend to film to people who just want a taste of life,
reality, just a simple but highly emotional film.

******
29 September 2001
10

When they ask me what is the film that made me cry, I answer the only one is
"Forrest Gump". Why? Because the story of this unlucky man (even if he gets
famous), his love for his Jenny, who just considers him as a friend, this
was very interesting. Moreover, you know, many people die in this film, and
Tom Hanks's incredible skills of actor make me feel his sadness and his
thoughts. When he finds out he has a son, that moves me a lot. I mean, the
vote I give to this film is 10.

******
25 September 2001
9

I recently saw `Forrest Gump' and was amazed. I could not understand,
whether it is a family drama or a philosophical movie. As I felt that the
movie is much more than a family drama, I am not discussing the story of the
movie here. I am trying to analyze the movie from a philosophical/ psychological angle.
Is there a message the movie is trying to convey? Does this movie laugh at
people who are supposedly very intelligent, rich but never satisfied or
happy? Does intelligence above a certain level really makes people feel
unhappy about every thing? Is Emotional Quotient (EQ) more important than
Intelligent Quotient (IQ)?Every body knows that focus in so important for success.  Yet we are so
distracted in life that we are unable to concentrate all our energy in a
single thing.  Forrest Gump does this so effortlessly. When he runs he runs
, when he plays ping pong (Table tennis) he does just that. Is it because of
his below average IQ?  Or is it because of the very high level of mental
maturity he has achieved?The way Forrest handles all his successes is unbelievable.  We see people
who become head strong for such trivial things, and Forrest wins again and
again without even bothering about the level of success he has achieved. 
There is a particular scene in which Forrest says to his bench mate in the
bust stop ` I went to Washington again, met the president again' the
statement sounds so naturally innocent. The actor and the director deserve a
special congratulation in this particular scene for making it sound so
natural and do not look like a egoistic boast.The director also captures the way Forrest handles defeat. Forrest never
gives up being a Shrimp boat captain and he is never bogged down by a
failure. This finally makes him a millionaire. It is quoted in Bhagavad-Gita that `Treating pleasure and pain, gain and
loss, victory and defeat alike, engage yourself in your duty'. The statement
though it may look so simple is extremely difficult to implement in real
life.  Now researchers have found that Emotional Quotient (EQ) is more
important than IQ. Forrest scores so high in EQ, that his IQ becomes
irrelevant for all his successes. I really don't know whether the director
conveyed this message intentionally. This movie also has some incredible acting, where you do not realize that
Tom Hanks has really acted.  I guess he has become Forrest Gump himself. The
scene where he shows some sort of emotional outburst is when he discovers
about his child. I am sure even a robot will be moved by the scene where he
asks his girl friend whether the child is dump or intelligent and asks her
permission to talk to his child. He does not ask permission in words, but
his facial expression speaks thousand words.  Every body else in the film
has done excellent support acting. A brilliant movie and a must see. 


******
10 September 2001
10

I loved this movie ... It was the best experiance I ever had. ... it moves
you into forrest gump's world ... it is so heart warming ..and every thing
in it is soo perfect...the story line , acting , soundtrack etc....Tom
Hanks
was really great .... i kept thinking about the movie for years ..and i
can't get it out of my mind ... and there is no special scene in it....it's
all perfect!!!!!...no matter what most people say I give it 10 out of
10....I saw alot of famous movies but this one is different.....

******
3 September 2001
10

Wow! I really love this film and I cannot understand how people can say it
is bad.It is extremely moving and powerful which is exactly what a film (of
this genre) should be. If you wanna a comedy, go watch a comedy, nobody is
denying that this is not a romantic-comedy full of belly laughs but it is a
real tear jerker and makes you think and Tom Hanks totally deservedly won
an
Oscar for being such an outstanding actor. It is really a fantastic film,
there are not enough ways for me to express that. It makes you think and it
touches you and it is *very* hard for the film crew
(actors,directors,cameraman
etc) to be able to achieve that but they have. I seriously dont understand
how people can be so critical and hate this. I do not (well hardly ever)
watch a movie expecting to critise it, that is not what movies are for. And
*of course* you are not going to like some of the characters because they
are not *meant* to be likeable!! Thats just how some people are, a film
cannot portray everyone as sugary sweet and perfect.
I understand that not everybody will think it is fantastic but I do not
understand the negative comments, to me they seem silly because I think
this
is a wonderful film, one of the best ever. The best thing about this film
is
that it goes through lifes highs and lows realistically,
powerfully,emotionally, it is sweet and honest and it portrays life how it
is.I whole heartedly give it an A++.

******
31 August 2001
9
The bus stop. John Savage gets in and goes to Milos Forman's New York
in his equally breathtaking HAIR. With the farewell quote above (from his papa) which gives live to
Forrest. Forrest Gump gets on the bus to go to school and way, WAY
beyond. But of course, Forrest comes back, keeps on coming back. To us.
He is not stupid, oh no, since he doesn't do a single act of stupidness
all through the film. He is .. Forrest, or for that matter ...
Perceval. "What do you want to be when you grow up Forrest ?"-"Aren't I going to be me ?" Even without the amazing special effects (did the money went dry to
have some proper rain effects outside Vietnam ?) which are truly
incredible and good and opened up a new chapter in film-history
(without this film the dead actor Oliver Reed could never have finished
his role in Gladiator...), this epic is wonderful. Of course, when you
get this film on DVD and run it for about 5 or 6 times Straight, you'll
find ONE tiny flaw in the accent of incredible Tom Hanks. Sure beforehand you wouldn't have noticed because of the moisture
blocking sinuses and ears and hanging in y' eye-lashes.... 6 golden
statues this film has won. Let's somehow give writer Winston Groom, who
gave us this round the world trip back to Yoknapatawpha County his
weight in gold.

******
29 August 2001
10

Tom Hanks is Forrest Gump.A simpleminded mentally handicapped man who had
accompished alot in life.He spends the entire time in the film talking to
strangers about his life in which we see these events unfold as he tells
these stories.In his entire lifetime he has conquered his disability,taught
Elvis Presley to swerve his hips,Met John F.Kennedy and Richard Nixon,fought
in the Vietnam War and has become a celebrity.Forrest Gump is just a simple
man and what makes him a great person is that he isn't affected by any of
this.he just lives life to the fullest.Tom Hanks won his second academy
award for best actor for this film and was the first since Spencer Tracy to
win a consecutive oscar.A strong supporting cast along with Gary
Sinise,Robin Wright(Now known as Robin Wright Penn)and Sally Field Give the
film great support under Robert Zemeckesis' superb direction."Forrest Gump"
is one of the films that I really enjoyed.

******
28 August 2001
10

I had been counting the days until this title was released on DVD. I
always
tell my friends and other people that a true movie fan cannot choose just
one favorite movie, but if I had to make a choice, it would be Forrest
Gump.
Contrary to other opinions here, I believe this movie is inteligent. It is
the epitamy of American life.As a movie, Forrest Gump has something for everyone--humor, drama, action,
and romance. As a story, it tells of a man who, though not the brightest
crayon in the box, can take part in any historical event. Tom Hanks is the
only person who could make this character work, period. He plays Forrest
with an unwitting charm...you just have to care what happens to him. In my
opinion, it is the best performance of his career and more than deserving
of
the Oscar which he received.Forrest Gump is a simple tale of a simple man who, for some reason (and
watching you really don't care why), is present for nearly every important
event in America's most recent history. Forrest's momma, played by Sally
Field in one of her finest performances, is his guide through most of his
early life. She teaches him that just because he's different, that doesn't
mean he isn't special.Forrest's romantic interest is Jenny, a young girl with whom he is very
much
in love. Fate delivers them onto separate paths, and yet Forrest and Jenny
seemed destined to always be together. The point here is, just as in our
reality, things happen that change our lives and we grow apart from those
about whom we care. Forrest seems to just shrug these changes off and love
Jenny unconditionally, the way true love should really
be.Overall, the performances are touching, the music is beautiful, and the
story itself is thought-provoking and meaningful. The DVD has a ton of
extra
features, though most of them are behind-the-scenes peeks. If you don't
own
Forrest Gump on video or DVD, I highly recommend you pick it up. After
all,
"life is like a box of chocolates...you never know what you're gonna
get."

******
22 August 2001
9

Ok I don't really have to praise this much since it's already gotten so many
good reviews but it is such a great movie. Tom Hanks does such a wonderful
job in this movie and it's one of the best movies of all time. It should be
a lot higher then #140 in the top 250 but oh well. The movie has a terrific
story, good actors, and good music, 9/10

******
31 July 2001
8

Forrest Gump is a kind honest sweet movie with edges of real life
sadness.
Forrest takes us back to old days of movies when every other word did not
have to be cursing,Forrest is a simple man making his way through an
unsimple life,the entire cast was brilliant.
A wonderful movie and well deserved an oscar.
We will never see the likes of this kind of movie again.
9 out of 10

******
29 July 2001
10

I think that Forrest Gump is one of the best movies in history, mainly
because the movie can make you cry at one point and laugh a couple of
minutes later it also shows Tom Hanks at his best and he is the main
factor
of making this film so good.

******
21 June 2001
10

I have seen Forrest Gump about 15 times, and every time it drives me to
tears. It shows how a man who is not exactly "right" can be very successful
and lead a full life. I hear people all the time criticize this movie, but
why? How can't you love this movie? Forrest is so likeable and the
filmmakers even succeed in making some humorous parts which is not normal in
most dramas. Tom Hanks pulls in a great acting performance as Forrest and
their are other great performances, also. Too many of them to name. It
deserved that Oscar. I feel that wholeheartedly. I give it an
A+.

******
20 March 2001
9

... I gotta say, I love it!  Whether you agree with me will probably
depend on whether the whimsical tone of the film is likely to make you
want
to smile or puke.  As I said, I'm in the former camp, but I can well
understand anybody who disagrees.  This film is certainly a devisive topic
amongst my friends and I, faintly dodgy politics and all (more on that
later...)Before I offer my critique of the film, I just wanna touch on two
issues
that are vaguely related.  Firstly, the IMDB lists "The Deer Hunter" as a
recommendation to those who like this movie.  What??  Let me assure you,
two
more movies that are so totally different as these pair would be hard to
find.  There is a VERY tenuous possible link with Vietnam, but aside from
that we're dealin' with chalk and cheese.  I recommend cinema and/or De
Niro
buffs check out "TDH" for completist sakes, because it's good, but IMHO
vastly over-rated (I know people will say the same about "Forrest Gump"!).
Anyhow, the tone of the two films is completely different, so in my
estimation a slight error within the IMDB there...Secondly, I know people complain because there was a crop of other good
movies to get a Best Picture nod in '94, and "Gump" beat them to it.
 Most -
if not all - of the films nominated that year would have been deserving
winners.  It just so happened that the Academy plumped for Gump (sorry
about
the excruciating rhyme...)  This does not devalue Forrest Gump against the
more dramatic pictures any more then it reflects badly on the runners up.
It was just a very good period for film, and all us cinema fans should be
thankful for that...Now that I've got that off my chest, back to the film in question.  I
feel that Hanks' performance stays just on the right side of cloying
sentimentality, always threatening to tip over the edge, but never quite
doing so.  This must be testament to Hanks skill as an actor, as with many
other actors in the role the character could have become fiercely
irritating
during the lengthly running time.  Again, I'm well aware of the arguments
that say the character was annoying from the START, but I never felt that
to
be the case.An able supporting cast serve to back up Hanks, and there is a
wonderful
turn from Gary Sinise as "Lt Dan Taylor".  His character ALMOST threatens
to
inject some edge into the character's ultra-PC universe, but maybe that
reflects the fact that the other characters are so wholesome rather than
that he is nasty.(SPOILERS)It's a fun jaunt through some 40 years (I think...) of history,
refreshingly not confined entirely to American culture.  John Lennon makes
an 'appearance' at one stage (You could argue that he represents
'cross-culture', but I'm claiming him as one of our own, even though I'm
not a Scouser but a Manc).  To those who think part of the fun in watching
a
movie is predicting events, this one won't provide you with much of a
challenge.  I recommend sitting back and allowing yourself to be drawn
into
the movie universe.As other users have pointed out before me, the film can possibly be
seen
as having a 'reactionary' viewpoint.  Having the main female character die
of AIDS as a consequence of her earlier hedonist actions seems
depressingly
intolerant if it was intended to convey some sort of message to the
audience.  I have no idea if events in the book are the same.  For those
of
you looking for deep subtextual material, it's certainly a juicy bone of
contention, but the film can be enjoyed just as well on a purely
simplistic
level.  I don't think the political bias is strong enough to ruin the
film.
As for my view on whether any such connotation was deliberate, let's just
say it wouldn't surprise me...(SPOILER END)To close, many of my friends voice much the same objections about the
film that I have seen on this site.  If the potential for nostalgia
combined
with goofy fantasy doesn't sound like it will be your thing, then by all
means avoid.  If, however, the concoction I have described sounds suited
to
your tastes, then enjoy; because I guarantee you won't find many better
examples of this type of thing around.

******
13 March 2001
10

A true masterpiece...A simple and human movie about dreaming and believing
that whatever people may think of you...you're the one controlling your
fate...A great film by Bob Zemeckis and a memorable performance by Tom
Hanks...Great soundrack and great script all the way!

******
24 February 2001
9

When I first saw this movie, I wasn't really old enough to appreciate it.
Since then I thin I've seen it three times, and it was just as amazing each
and every time.Tom Hanks is Forrest Gump, a simple man. Forrest Gump is not stupid. He's
simple. At a very young age, Forrest had trouble walking so his mother
(Sally Field) had him get braces for his legs. Then he met jenny, the blond
little girl that would let him sit with her. All throughout his life,
Forrest will chase Jenny. Generally unbeknownst to him, Forrest becomes part
of history. He fights in the Vietnam war. He meets a bunch of presidents. He
meets Elvis. He uncovers the Watergate mystery. He meets characters like
Bubba (Mykelti Williamson) and Capitain Dan (Gary Sinise). All this is told
mostly throughout flashbacks as Forrest tells his life to people as he sits
on a bench, waiting for a bus. Tom Hanks brings a sweetness to the character
of Forrest Gump that has never been achieved this well before. Gary Sinise,
Robin Wright, Sally Field and Mykelti Williamson bring help to this film,
but it really is about Forrest. You feel for this man like you've never felt
before for such a simple character. You follow him through his life, and you
enjoy it.I like everything about this movie. Through the great flashbacks, you get to
live American history, and not just a small part. All of it. The narrative
here is rich and you can never get enough. This movie clocks in at more than
two and half hours, but it's barely too long. Only near the end do you feel
like you're wasting your time. The other problem is that some events are
moralistic bordering on the chick-flick. Yet there are so many nice touches,
so many engaging performances that you'll let yourself get sucked in. Life
is like a box of chocolates. If you don't do something with it, it'll melt
away. 9/10

******
11 February 2001
10

What can i say, another movie which shines through. A movie which deserved
all the awards it got and brought us closer to the wonderful acting of Tom
Hanks. Forrest Gump is amazing. Everything you could want in a movie Forrest
Gump has, from the laughter to the tears to the brilliant acting and
brilliant story-line and MORE. Robert Zemikis is such a wonderful director
and Tom Hanks being the brilliant actor that he is, was yet again truly
wonderful in this movie. A must see if you haven't seen the fantastic
Forrest Gump yet. BRILLIANT! 10/10! 

******
24 January 2001
10

This movie is one of the best movies ever I have it on LD. I'm from Denmark
and still I find this way of portraying parts of the American history very
entertaining. Tom Hanks (of course) and Gary Sinise performs like the great
actors they truly are... the way Tom Hanks does Gump gives me chills with
excitement... Usually I'm pretty sensitive about movies, but with this one I
can't say anything bad at all. Some say that this movie isn't as good as
Pulp and Shawshank.... no.. it's better... and to that I must add that Pulp
is also one of my all-time favorites so I'm not being ignorant... Forrest
Gump just hit my moviespot  I guess:o) ...10 isn't enough for this
movie...

******
9 January 2001
10

   Forrest Gump is a wonderfully magical and enduring film of nostalgia
through the eyes of one man who is so beat up inside that he doesn't mind
getting rained on. Almost everyone he has ever met or known ends up with a
fortune of bad luck (Elvis, Lennon, his mom, Bubba, the Kennedys, Wallace,,)
as he further goes on granting good luck on others by creating or
contributing to Elvis's movements, mooning, smiley faces, jogging,
Watergate, Lennon's lyrics and the Chinese peace movement. The altering of
the old footage was so masterfully done and the incorporating of historical
and social events almost convinces you that Forrest Gump was a real person.
There is a message behind this movie that suggests that we only gain
personal fulfillment through  trying to improve the lifestyles of the others
on this planet. This is a movie meant to be watched over and
over.

******
27 December 2000
10

I can not believe 1100 people gave this movie a vote of 1(awful). The plot
might have been a little shaky and it might have dragged on a little bit
but
it was so good and so loaded with drama and adventure it didn't bother me
at
all that it dragged on a little. The people I know who didn't like it
didn't
like it mainly because they thought it went a little overboard with all
his
achievements but I think it was to bring out some important things in
history and what a way to do it. By sticking a made up character through
it
all. It got my attention. I love the soundtrack to. I day before I saw
this
I had said Tom Hanks was a bad actor boy did those words come back to
haunt
me. I had never seen such good acting in my life at the time. Not only do
I
think everyone should see this movie I think they should own it and the
soundtrack. Matter a fact I'm gonna go watch it right now.

******
3 November 2000
10

I have seen this masterpiece several times, and I can honestly say there is
no other film quite like it. The plot is now familiar to all - Tom Hanks
plays a man with a lower-than-average IQ whose life becomes intertwined with
the major events and people of recent U.S. history.In the film he:
- inspires Elvis how to swivel his hips
- see Governor George Wallace attempt to stop high school
integration
- becomes a phenomenal college football player
- fights in the Vietnam war and rescues several soldiers
- speaks at a huge anti-war rally
- becomes a millionaire philanthropist through shrimp fishing and wise
investments
- witnesses the Watergate break in
- runs across America several times
- meets John Lennon
- creates several well known sayings
- becomes a ping-pong champion and travels to China to
compete
- meets three U.S. presidentsWhat's fascinating is that as amazing as these accomplishments sound, they
really don't mean very much to Gump. His only need is just to be with his
life-long sweetheart Jenny. His pursuit and ultimate winning over of her is
really all that matters to him. It is the execution of this simply story
against the vast events of history that makes this film absolute
magic.Everything about this film works, and works well. The cinematography, the
music, the script, direction, and of course, the acting. The special effects
in this film are also remarkable, but they are used fairly sparingly, and
act more as a supplement to the story, rather than becoming the story
itself, as in many other films. Robert Zemeckis is one of my favorite
directors, and this film will probably be remembered as his magnum
opus.10/10


******
3 November 2000
10

Any place he goes, any thing he does, there's always something that brings
back his childhood friend. Don't look at just the special effects, at the
cameos, watch as what had to be many years before becomes reality too
late:
a true love. A nice story, with an ending happy and sad at the same
moment...

******
29 October 2000
10

It is very easy to be cynical about this movie. Totally implausible? Yep.
Over sentimental? Without  doubt.  Overrated?
Of course.  But through all these things that you could that would make
this
sound like an awful movie, there is one thing that you cannot deny.  This
movie moved people.  Told from the naive and Simple-minded Gump, it trawls
through Vietnam, the US Hippy Age, and numerous events at the Whitehouse,
showing that Gump has had a far more interesting life  than he would ever
let on.  It is essentially a love story, as he continues in his mission to
win over his childhood sweet heart.  It is told completely in flash back
until the last few minutes, and as a brilliant Tom Hanks unravels the
story
for his audience, delivering line after line of unknowing yet amazingly
poignant statements, you sort of realise just how good it was to be
totally
ignorant things.  Maybe this movie was not as great as everyone said it
was.
In realisation, it did not deserve the heap of Oscars it got.  But for
two
hours, this innocent guy reminded us what it was like to be youthful in
mind, totally free of cynicism. And I for one, have got no problem
whatsoever with that. *****

******
20 October 2000
10

Tom Hanks shines as Forrest Gump, a metally challanged man. As do his very
talented co-stars, including, Gary Sinise as his vietnam commanding officer
Sally Feild as his loving mother and Robin Write as his friend for life
Jenny.We see many things happen to Forrest in his life, from wearing braces on his
legs as a youngster, to him meeting Jenny, and through almost 30 years he
sees some of the most unforgettable events in history.He touches many lives including Bubba (Mykelti Williamson) another mentally
challenged man, Captain Dan (Sinise) who is crippled during the
war.This is a film where you either love it or hate it. Well i loved it and it
is a truly excellent film, Hanks is wonderful.10/10

******
10 October 2000
10

This is my third viewing of 'Forrest Gump'.  The first time I was
unimpressed; the second time I had a concussion (rollerblades: too much
speed: car) and cried as soon as I saw the feather ; this time I only have
a
cold.
And this movie blows me away even more.
As a native southerner, I'm sensitive to 'South/Idiot' allusions in
popular
media, and instinctively braced myself for either sentimentality or
stupidity as that feather began its gorgeous journey.
Robert Zemeckis has created a masterpiece. Each aural allusion to
Beethoven's 9th Symphony is APPROPRIATE, amazingly enough.And that's all I've got to say about that.

******
26 August 2000
7

I have never really been fond of DRAMA movies.
Forrest Gump touched my heart, deeply.
Tom Hanks is wonderful as the retart Forrest Gump who looks back on a
brilliant life.
The movie deserved every bit of its 6 Academy Awards.
**/*** (VERY GOOD)

******
31 July 2000
7

  Six years have passed since we first saw Forrest Gump. At first is was
highly praised and has since slowly died off. I believe that ten years from
now, Forrest Gump will be regarded as an American classic.  The last time I watched "Gump" was about three years ago and it was
wearing thin. Having watched it so many times, it began to loose its punch.
You realize that it is VERY fictional and that it is not nearly as good as
1994's Best-Picture runner-up Pulp Fiction. But, having watched it recently
I was able to enjoy it again, more than I did the first time, because of the
great performances by all, and the unforgettable moments.  Forrest Gump is destined to become a classic due to its great,
heart-warming story, and classic lines that will be repeated like those from
Casablanca, Gone With The Wind, and other favorites. The main reason though,
is that Forrest Gump is a lesson in 1900's American history. The sixties
were a crazy-ass time, and I'm glad I didn't have to live in them(I'm only
20). Politicians being assassinated, Vietnam, drugs, and the Cold War all
depicted in their actual footage. Actual broadcasts of Nixon's resignation,
the Apollo landing, and newscasts of politicians such as Ford, Reagan, and
Gov. Gorge Wallace.
  "Gump" is a great movie. One that WILL be appreciated even more through
time.

******
18 July 2000
10

Some movies you remember forever and other movies you want to forget the
moment you leave the movie theather. This is one movie I will remember
forever. Even after seeing five times, Iam discovering new angles to the
story. It's right there the World According to Garp.

******
15 July 2000
10

It's a great pic for all those drama lovers out there or if Tom Hanks is a
favourite of yours.Something to entertain you on a cold day cuz it warms
you
up with it funny and sad moments....
Although the beginning is a bit boring,just remember to stick around cuz
it's starts to get more and more interesting after the first 1/2 hour.It's
terrific!!!!!!!!


******
7 July 2000
10

The first time I saw this movie, I was awstruck by the way history was
somehow influenced by this simple man from Greenbo, Alabama, knowing full
well this was just a fictional story. The director made a perfect review of
all the glories and tragedys in the movie. Also the way the writers make the
true love story take over in the end was just perfect for an end of an
eventfull life for Forrest. This is Tom Hanks' all time BEST
ever!

******
26 June 2000
9

I recently watched FG again. It had been several years since I saw it the
first time. My memory of the film, and specifically Tom Hanks' performance,
was that how hard can it be to play a retarded person? After viewing the
movie again, I remember what a real tour de force this role was for Hanks.
He was fantastic here, and the whole film remains extremely entertaining.
When you've seen it before, you don't concentrate so much on the special
effects putting Hanks into historical footage. Some of those effects were
better than others, but it was a really cute trick. The best effects,
however were the computer removal of Gary Sinise's legs. I watched closely
and this was absolutely seamless, looked perfect on the screen. Robin Wright
also deserves mention for a great performance, as does Sinise and Sally
Fields. 

******
23 June 2000
4

This movie was mediocre and i gave it a 4, but since i was so outraged
that
it beat out pulp fiction and shawshank redemption i choose to dislike it
even more. i don't mind feel-good movies most of the time, as long as the
fact that it is a feel-good movie isn't being thrown in my face while i'm
watching it. forrest gump is one of those movies that tells you all the
time
how and what you should be feeling. and maybe all movies do this (i think
film as an artform is definitely more manipulative lets say then painting
or
sculpture), and maybe the better movies are just the ones which do a
better
job of concealing it. regardless, forrest gump was boring, contrived, and
simplistic. on another note, why is it every time someone portrays a
mentally disabled person it automatically praised as good acting? i mean,
hanks is a pretty good actor, but the trend is getting annoying. dustin
hoffman did a fantastic job in rain man, but since then that kind of role
has been way too much critical acclaim. maybe its because its such an
extreme kind of portrayal that viewers don't know whether its realistic or
not so they assume its great acting. i tend to find underacting to be more
indicative of talent ( a la robert deniro as opposed to "hoohah!" pacino).
anyways, movies like gump set good filmmaking back by twenty years.great. now i feel bad. sorry tom.

******
19 June 2000
10

An idiot savant.  His girl lost in the world.  And 3 decades of history.
These three intertwine to define Forrest Gump, the film about a man who's
experienced history in a way only he can.  Not quite fully understanding
the
things that happen to him, Forrest makes it through schooling, college, the
Vietnam war, a successful shrimping career, and most importantly, love with
a girl who can't seem to find her way.  Simple in life, simple in thought,
he redefines our complex lives into what matters most.  In Tom Hanks best
film to date, he proves what humanity should be. 

******
16 June 2000
10

This film is about a "slow-minded" man who tries to do his best with his
life. Living with his mother for most of his life, he met his girlfriend
and
wife-to-be Jenny when he was a young boy. Forrest (Hanks) soon ends up in
the army with exceptional skills at repairing guns and running and saving
people. This is a great action movie with a couple of twists in it as
well.
A must-see.

******
12 October 1999
4

The best thing in this movie is Gary Sinise. He growls, smirks, and spits
his way through a terrific performance before his character is converted to
Forrest's religion. Other than that, there's not much meat in this movie. I
thought Hanks was pretty good as Gump, but it's not a role that you can
screw up too badly because there's very little character to slip into.The biggest problem with it is the artificial, plastic directing job,
something that other Zamekis productions suffer from also. The sequence of
dying Lt. Dan ancestors is particularly egregious - it's supposed to be
funny, I think, but doesn't quite make it. I'm also at a loss to explain why
we needed the Gump within a Gump voiceover narration. It only adds to the
syrupy tone with the kind of pseudo-humor you see in many TV commercials.
This story could have told itself quite well without this and similar
directorial tricks.I was a little bit bothered by the right-wing sensibilities present, but not
all that much. I'm used to the co-opting of counter-culture product to prove
alternate ideals (like the idea behind John Lennon's "Imagine"). Using a
false history as a dramatic device is OK with me, just do something
interesting with it. Hollywood has a tendency to de-legitimize creativity as
merely the accident of situation. Zamekis has done this before in Back to
the Future, where Chuck Berry supposedly gets his inspiration for "Johnny B.
Good" from one performance (instead of years of hard work). I hate it when
this is used for a joke - and not a very good one, usually. Just like many
things in this movie, it's pandering to the nostalgia of the audience.
Similar things are done to Bear Bryant. But I digress.The best scene in the movie is when Hanks sees Sinise at the dock and runs
into the water to greet him. It sums up both characters beautifully. And
despite (or maybe because of) the heavy borrowing from other movies, other
good scenes are the barroom scene with Hanks and Sinise, the orgasm scene,
and the initial meeting of Hanks and his Drill Sergeant. I mention these
because they don't typify the piled-on heavy sentiment that the rest of the
movie employs. 

******
2 July 1999
4

I suppose that because FORREST GUMP uses fantastic technology to trot out
its one joke and gimmick again, it gave the illusion of somehow being
original.  The feather and the feather only is great in this movie; the
rest
is capable at best (Hanks' performance, some of the cinematography) and
hackneyed at worst.  This is the sort of movie, like THE SOUND OF MUSIC,
which cues its sentiment so strongly it's insulting.  It's interesting to
take a movie like this and compare it with something like BIRDY (which has
certain thematic similarities); BIRDY's premise is so much more
far-fetched,
and yet the movie has an authenticity GUMP can't manage.  Almost everyone
involved here has done better, if not stellar, work elsewhere.


******
14 February 1999
6

While this film has good points which others have already mentioned, I
wanted to point out some points that really irritated me.The #1 thing is that this film would shed tears for the shooting of George
Wallace, an opportunistic politician who curried racist favour for his own
cheap political gain, yet have NOT ONE mention of Martin Luther King in any
way, shape or form.  This was even though he was working in Alabama at the
same time when Forrest was growing up and it would be certainly more
believable for Forrest to meet King than 90% percent of the celebrities he
meets in his life.  I'm not asking him to meet Malcolm X, considering he was
working in New York at the time.  Yet, King is ignored as if he didn't
exist.Second, the cross country marathon screams of being tacked on.  I fail to
see any humour in it and my eyes rolled how the media completely ignores in
their reports that this "mystery marathonner" is an All American football
player, a Congressional Medal of Honour recipient, a ping pong company
spokesman and a millionaire owner of a fishing fleet.  You would figure this
would make a lot of hay for any reporter writing this up about a man who can
do all this and have a IQ of less than 75.

******
24 November 1998
7

I find it interesting that this picture won an Oscar over Pulp Fiction and
The Shawshank Redemption, BOTH of which were better movies, in my opinion.I also find it interesting that Robin Wright as Jenny wasn't nominated, when
I thought her performance was one of the GOOD things about the movie. She
seemed to be the only person involved with the film the Academy ignored that
year.The movie wasn't terrible, but it was too long, overly sentimental and not
especially memorable. I did think Tom Hanks delivered a fine performance,
but I don't know if I'd term it a "Best Actor" caliber performance
either.Basically, an overrated, over-hyped movie.

******
24 August 2013
6
I have always loved this quirky classic from when I was very young. Me
and my friends would come home from school and sit down with a pizza
and some snacks and watch Forrest Gump at least once a month, so I
think that really demonstrates to you what kind of film it is. As many
of you will know, it's extremely quotable and a generally obvious
lesson-learning film. Though, this could be a bad quality as I know
that many people like to have 'hidden meanings' in films, and stuff
that you need to work out - but this is the polar opposite. It's not
hard to understand, it's just plain and simple as it's seen mostly in
the perspective of Forrest himself.

******
11 August 2013
4
This is one of those rare films of which I am very aware, but had never
seen. Nineteen years on I decided to put it right. Director Robert
Zemeckis has gone on to have a distinguished career and is a Hollywood
stalwart, a traditionalist in the Spielberg mould. Unfortunately, as
the story unfolded, i became aware that my subconscious had been a
shrewd judge of what I enjoy.As a modern day, conservative, fairy tale it is well crafted , easy on
the eye, tugging at the heartstrings and rich in warmth. But the
sub-text is as stodgy as a toffee chocolate. Gump, a man of modest
talent, but great determination and opportunism, triumphs in life. We
never see the Commies in Vietnam, just Gump's bravery, we do see those
subversive anti-war protesters and Black Panthers though, but even dim
Gump manages to see his way through.Told in flashback, and with amusing and inspired manipulated archive
footage to put Forrest at the heart of historic action , much pivots
upon Forrests's star crossed relationship with a girl, played by Robin
Wright. Gary Sinise shines as Lieutenant Dan Taylor. Yet for me the
sentimentality is mawkish, the message awkward and simplistic, and the
treatment a cynical manipulation of the audience that loves The
American Dream. Its appeal is obvious. Its claims to greatness over
stated.

******
1 October 2011
10
"Forrest Gump" is one of the rare cases of cinema's magic working more
than in any other artistic medium. Everything is a visual delight and a
triumph in the field of storytelling, from the cinematography to the
editing, from Zemeckis' sober direction to an extraordinary lesson of
acting from Tom Hanks, the movie IS the Best Picture of 1994, which is
saying a lot, and one of the best American films.Every film tells a story, but a few of them have this capability to
penetrate your hearts and engage your emotions like "Forrest Gump".
There are no villains in "Forrest Gump", no room for negativity, the
only adversity consists on the many obstacles that life puts on your
path, and the only form of heroism relies on the ability to overcome
these obstacles, and whether you succeed or fail, the point is to keep
your faith on life, and find your own Alchemy to transform coal in
gold. And Forrest Gump is the first to have overcome the handicaps that
would have deprived him from a 'normal' life.The flash-back introducing sight of little Forrest with his legs'
braces, hand in hand with Mama Gump (remarkably played by Sally Field)
would be too tragic if the script didn't rightfully choose to adopt a
more lighthearted tone by making Forrest Gump the privileged witness of
his time, of a cinematic journey in American History, with every piece
of this epic puzzle connected in a way or another to him. I will never
forget my first impression from the Elvis Presley part, the first
indication of what would be the life of Gump. Something too promising
to be eternally stuck in these handicapping braces, and the laughs work
as the patient build up to a rewarding climactic moment, the miracle
scene or an overwhelming celebration of the triumph of human spirit.And from this miracle, Forrest Gump becomes the fastest man in the
world, and starts one of the most exhilarating chain of events that
ever enriched a character. This is the power of Forrest Gump, a
character defined by the way he is, the way he talks, the way he loves,
defined by the events he lived, by those he underwent, and those he
influenced, by the people that helped and loved him and people he
helped and loved. Not one-dimensional or dim-witted, Gump is one of the
most memorable and fascinating characters that even graced the silver
screen. Who can ever forget "My name is Forrest. Forrest Gump"? Through
his silent moments, gestures, speech mannerisms and Tom Hanks' unique
talent to transcend his everyday look, Gump conveys the profundity of a
character affected and affecting a world in constant change, mirroring
Mama Gump's unforgettable 'chocolate box' catchphrase.And what an epic life for an epic era, Gump's talent launches his
football athlete career, which gives him a ticket to college, from
college to the Army, where he'll become a Ping Pong player before
converting to shrimp fishing. Every achievement of Forrest Gump is due
to someone he loves, starting with his Mama who traded her dignity to
provide her son the best education, Jenny, his best friend whose
unforgettable "Run, Forrest Run" will drain the miraculous force that
would change his life. And his friend Bubba who'll indirectly provide
the basis of Gump's fortune thanks to a simple promise. And whatever
Forrest took, he gave it back, to his mother, to Jenny, to his best
friend's memory, and to Lieutenant Dan, who thought he had to die in
the field of honor, and learned the value of life from Forrest's
unshakable friendship.That's why I don't get the criticism toward the film, as if Forrest
Gump was a kind of liberal incarnation of the passive state of mind
that guarantees happiness. Why do people feel the need to appear so
smart, to consider a movie where someone got shot in the face
accidentally, superior, and it's a fan of "Pulp Fiction" speaking here.
Maybe, I've missed a point, but "Forrest Gump" is perfectly aware of
its comedic mood that almost flirts with parody sometimes. Eric Roth's
Oscar-winning script is a kaleidoscope of all the incarnations of
America in people's imagery through a glorious succession of anecdotes
involving entertainment, music, politics, Presidents, scandals, Vietnam
War, following one of the greatest cinematic soundtracks : the Doors,
Dylan, Hendrix  "Forrest Gump" is a wonderful voyage to Pop-Culture
America! And the intelligence of the script is subtly hinted in some
little details like when Forrest evokes his perfect integration in the
Army. This is pure comedy gold without any forced laughs.And as there's no better comedy than a comedy with a heart, on that
level, "Forrest Gump" is so lighthearted it's almost blinding. I guess
this comes from Forrest's heart, so pure, so white, like the cinematic
allegory of Voltaire's Candid. How fitting that his last job is
gardener, which mirrors Candid's motto that whatever happens, "we need
to cultivate our garden". Gump does cultivate his garden as a sort of
dream-like presence in a very familiar universe, a dream we'd loved to
reach and touch, something that floats in our minds like this beautiful
feather floating on the sky. Men like Forrest Gump are oddities only
made believable through the magic of cinema with no other meaning than
to inspire something pure in us.This is why any attempt to rationally analyze "Forrest Gump" and
discredit its success is representative of that loss of common
innocence, this cynicism people disguise in lucidity and realism,
unknowing that they fall in the same trap than those who ran with Gump
thinking it had a meaning while Forrest Gump only "felt like running".
Gump didn't necessarily choose his path, but he always followed his
heart, his idea of love and friendship. "I'm not a smart man. But I
know what love is". On that level, Forrest Gump was simply a goddamn
genius!

******
6 March 2011
9
Just watched Forrest Gump again in a very casual way when I was
actually watching a Korean sitcom. I already watched this movie several
times before.Gump is below level IQ but he is happy in some degree. At least he
could love Jenny although their relation is kind of complex. You can
say it is fragile but deeply rooted in both hearts like nostalgic. You
can say this movie is not a masterpiece but it is very touching. In
67th Academy Award, it is the winner against other four movies like the
Shawshank Redemption and FW and AF. Either have strong advantages over
Forrest Gump. But Gump is deeply rooted in the red soil of southern
USA- this great continent. FW and AF or Shawshank can happen everywhere
but Gump is irreplaceable because it tightly is associated with the
history of USA!For some people, they can not find their true lovers but have to marry
because of some pressures. Am I to be one of them sometime?

******
25 February 2011
9
'Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're going to
get' The above statement set the scene for this film, in my opinion as,
going into it i had no idea what to expect. Forrest Gump is essentially
a true underdog story that flourishes at every turn, and while the
concept behind it may be far-fetched, it still manages to be believable
throughout.The film starts out with a young boy who's mother, despite the setbacks
her child has, aims to give her child a normal life. It's the extents
she goes through to help him achieve this that truly set the scene for
me, if anything it's a story about love, and courage.Hanks truly delivered in his role as Forest Gump, and truly helped to
deliver one of my all time favourite performances.9/10

******
27 January 2011
9
To say that this is a bit of a masterpiece is the right thing to say.Start of with to say that "Forrest Gump" is one of my 10 favorite
movies ever made, mostly because the film gives you a fantastic
experience not out of the usual.Robert Zeckemis is a director with a big and nice heart and with he
help this movie is getting to a big and good level.Tom Hanks are amazing, in the film he really knows how to play a role
nice and effect, so i can say that he makes his best role her, Right
here on his little bench, and eats chocolate, Mr. Gary Sinise makes his
preforming good.Good Movie, Perfect Movie

******
5 October 2010
10
***Spoiler Alert*** Forrest Gump is one of the most impactive,
respected and popular films of the 90's. Widely considered one of the
best films o all time, and while this is very subjective, the depth of
this film in itself should be enough to at least make people accept its
brilliance. In case you don't know, Forrest Gump is in fact a symbol of
America. The story follows the main character, who, while not being the
sharpest nor most intelligent main character alive, still manages to
somehow just do the right things, attain success, and always make the
best of others... Don't get too excited now though, cause while we have
the naive, well-meaning Forrest, for whom life isn't too serious, we've
also get Jenny, who ends up as the opposite. A symbol of everything
rotten within America. Don't get it wrong, she's not an antagonist,
actually it's just the sad irony, that Forrest, who attains everything
by luck and good intentions, Jenny, who has all the ordinary traits and
possibilities which Forrest do not have, simply picks all the wrong
choices. So much for the American Dream... While these two characters
respectively journeys through the best and worst periods of the
country, there's always a somewhat romantic relationship between the
two, which of course has to result in a child. Forrest Gump deserves
just as much attention as it got. Everything form acting to directing
to filming is perfect, and while one could keep up the endless
discussion bout which of it and Pulp Fiction deserved the Best Film
Award, the outcome shouldn't bother too many... Incredibly intelligent
and exciting film...

******
20 September 2010
10
Robert Zemeckis is a name Cinema Salutes. Reason? He has made
remarkable films, that have always touched a chord. But, some people
believe his Cinema is not good enough, and he ain't worthy enough for
what he has achieved. Now I advocate to those anti-Zemeckis's, Watch
'Forrest Gump', and you would yourself become a fan of this man and
take your words back.IMDb writes: 'Forrest Gump', while not intelligent, has accidentally
been present at many historic moments, but his true love, Jenny, eludes
him. Is this really the meaning behind this 1994-Blockbuster? I am a
Cinema Devotee, and My Verdict on this film is: This is a film above
words, my summary correctly copies that. It's a journey of a man left
alone, it's his journey to Win his LOVE, and finally become a proud
citizen.About 140 Minutes long, 'Forrest Gump' unfolds fearlessly. This is
Robert Zemeckis's finest work to date. His cinema has never been so
engaging before. Eric Roth's adapted screenplay provides liberties to
it's historical HERO. Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump & Gary Sinise, as one
of Forrest's important people in his journey, pack in performances,
that can surely be described as, "Tour De Force". Robin Wright as
Jenny, becomes the beauty of her time and brings in spontaneity in her
character.On the whole, Easily One Of The Greatest Films Ever Made, to pseudo,
that sentence in Caps, is an understatement.

******
31 July 2010
10
About Forrest Gump... I'll only say that I cried like a baby when the
movie ended and I'm not the type of person who cries whenever she sees
a chick flick or a drama. Seriously, there are only like three movies
that have made me cry and I mean real crying. This film has a soul and
you can easily fall in love with the characters. With this movie I
suffered, laughed and felt real tenderness towards Forrest. Sometimes I
feel that Academy Awards winners are overrated but this movie deserved
every award.Kudos, Tom Hanks It's a must see if you consider yourself a movie fan.

******
1 January 2010
8
Tom hanks is just perfect guy for this role. i haven't seen many movie
which has its heart and brain working towards the audience as this
movie does. We left fooled, amazed and sad at times with the eventful
life gump goes through. sometimes you feel hatred towards gump's slutty
girl friend and sometimes you say its just fine.Forrest gump is a dumb head, hard fool and non practical guy for most
the people inside and outside the screen. but then when the movie ends
we keep thinking why we don't have a heart like that. which cares, not
cunning, not judging people, not selfish.If you ask the story then its just a one liner. A good hearted man
travels through the ups and downs of his life, but for him both means
the same or none. camera keeps us engaged and direction is picture
perfect. every one wants to be him. its no preaching but a lot of
learning. its more a lesson than a movie but here the text book is the
man himself.good work and keep it working this way. worth watching more than one
time.

******
19 November 2009
10
Well, i jus don't know wat to begin with when it comes to this
particular movie, this is my first comment on IMDb and i wanted to
start with this. I saw this movie very late in my personal DVD, n had
no much expectations about it except my cousin saying its a great
movie. And to be frank this one turned out to be my most favourite
movie, and already i liked tom hanks and he became my most favourite
actor after this. That says it all, great movie, great acting, n great
everything. Life history of a person cant be said in a better way.
Folks do watch this movie, don't miss it for anything.My rating is
10/10 for this. The best.

******
13 November 2009
10
this in my opinion is the best movie ever to be made in Hollywood. the
story of a guy with a below normal IQ and the wonderful things happened
to him over his course of life moves you, inspires you, makes you cry
makes you wanna laugh out loud it feels so real!!! i can watch it over
and over again hundreds of times and still not get bored !! the story
is so simple and the way it is narrated is wonderful i got tears in my
eyes in the scene when jenny tells Forrest about his son and he
wouldn't understand it!!! this film is one of those which tells you the
value of simplicity and the successes that can be achieved by it!! life
is like a box of chocolates u never know what ur gonna get . this is
one film which gives you a different warm feeling in your heart each
time you watch itan absolute must watch!!!

******
11 November 2009
10
i have only to say that when i saw this movie i became an instant fan
of tom hanks and Hollywood . many people say how shawshank didn't get a
Oscar because of this movie i say after tom hanks performance , i saw
only one more performance compatible than this and that is of Daniel
day lewis 'there will be blood'.When I first saw this movie I didn't appreciate it like I do now. I
think it may have been because I was so young when I first saw it. Just
recently I saw the movie again. What an amazing story and moving
meaning. That movie teaches you so much about life and the meaning of
it. That life isn't as bad as most people make it seem. That an
innocent man can impact so many lives with his innocence. The meaning
of the movie to me is that everyone needs to have a better outlook on
life. That we need to appreciate more of the little things and not let
the big things hold us back. That truly although life may throw us
trials and tribulations like a box of chocolates but that we have to
just bite into it and get through it even if we don't like it. That we
all need to hold true to our values and not sink into a place that
feels like there's no hope... I just love this movie. And anyone who
hasn't seen it or who thinks that don't like it I seriously suggest
seeing it or seeing it again. It truly is amazing...

******
6 November 2009
10
Inspiring work by ZemicksForest Gump is a masterpiece. Obviously Robert zemciks and Tom hanks
make a Brilliant Duo. Tom hanks has given many blockbusters to
Hollywoodbut Forrest Gump must be his Best Movie ever. This movie
keeps my eyes wet all the 142 minutes no matter how many times I watch
it. I can say that it is because of sheer emotions which this movie
seems to be pulling out..The movie is all about a semi retarded kind of Boy with a low IQ at his
best innocence level. Gump never grows up or matures in the movie. He
never becomes a man and remains a boy throughout the movie. This movie
focuses around lot of different aspects of life mainly showing that
life isn't that bad but it's only us who think down the wrong way. This
movie shows us that we should appreciate all the little things we get
and not let the big sorrows and pain hold us back. Lot of VfX work is
done in the movie showing Gump rubs elbows with many famous
personalities over the last half of the century including Elvis Presley
and Nixon, General Dan doesn't really lose his legs either---they are
just erased and the background is then touched up by using computer
graphics programs.Tom is too good in the movie along with all the supporting actors who
have done a very good job. Zemicks sure knows how to get his job done.
Jenny seems to be the girl gump loves the most but she been shown a
selfish and out-tracked character, while his mother has been a
encouraging and inspiring one creating contrast. The traditional male
heroes that we have had are all dysfunctional in some respect or
another and we are lost without heroes but here Gump is a new kind of a
role- model; he's A Nice Boy and everyone knows they're hard to find.
There are many sequences in the movie which are work of pure fiction
but still seem to be amazing like Gump turns out to a millionaire,
becomes a national Runner as well as Heritage.The only thing I can tell u is watch this movie over and over cause art
works don't repeat themselves much over a century or two. If u don't
have anything else then watch this movie a 100 times. Kudos to Hanks
and Zemicks.

******
1 November 2009
10
"Back to the Future" trilogy director Robert Zemeckis surpassed himself
in ways that he probably never imagined when he made "Forrest Gump."
Clocking in at two hours and forty minutes, this PG-13 rated comedy
about the epic misadventures of a slow-witted dolt from rural Alabama
with a below-average I.Q. who lives through several milestone events in
the 1960s received the Oscar for Best Picture of 1994. Not only did
Zemeckis earn a Best Director Oscar, but also Tom Hanks' took home the
Academy statuette for Best Actor with his insightful, down-to-earth
thesping. Forrest Gump is not the brightest bulb in the grid, but Hanks
conveys this quality without ever stooping to histrionics. Above all,
Hanks delivers a performance that has innocence and dignity
intertwined. Moreover, "Forrest Gump" qualifies as Hanks' best film."Forrest Gump" unfolds in Savannah, Georgia, as the eponymous character
narrates the story of his life in a number of flashbacks. Indeed,
two-thirds of the action takes place with Forrest on the bench relating
his exploits to other people waiting for their bus. The first time that
we see young Forrest, he has just been fitted with a pair of leg braces
at the doctor's office while his mother (Sally Fields of "Norma Ray")
watches. She is determined to see to it that father-less Forrest gets
to live as normal a life as possible. The school principal (Sam
Anderson of "La Bamba") fails to convince her that Forrest's low I.Q.
of 75 means that he should not attend regular school classes. Despite
Forrest's intellectual's shortcomings, Mrs. Gump persuades the
principal to permit Forrest to enroll in normal classes by having loud,
noisy sex with him. The next time that we see young Forrest (newcomer
Michael Humphreys) he hesitates about climbing aboard the school bus
because he doesn't know the bus driver and has been warned by his
mother not to accept rides from strangers. The driver and Forrest
introduce themselves to each other and he steps aboard because they are
now no longer strangers. Forrest meets his first best friend Jenny
Curran when she is the only student riding the bus who will let him sit
beside her. Later, Forrest meets his second best friend on his way to
military boot camp when Bubba makes room for him to sit beside him
after others have turned him away.Jenny and Forrest cultivate their friendship to the point that other
students decide to attack Forrest. Initially, these obnoxious kids
throw rocks at Forrest while he is walking home with Jenny. "Run,
Forrest, run," screams Jenny to our hero as the kids hurl more rocks
and pursue him on their bicycles. Forrest takes off running and his
braces disintegrate and he breaks into a loping stride that the kids on
their bikes cannot match. The first chronological transition from young
Forrest to Tom Hanks as Forrest occurs when the same kidsonly
olderattack Forrest and Jenny (Robin Wright of "The Princess Bride")
and try to run him down in their pick-up truck. Again, Forrest outruns
them and scrambles through a practice scrimmage that Alabama football
coach Bear Bryant (Sonny Shroyer of "Gator") is holding. Forrest winds
up in college, joins the football and scores touchdowns for the Alabama
Crimson Tide. During his stay at Alabama, Forrest is exposed to the
famous stance in the doorway by real-life Alabama governor George
Wallace when the University of Alabama was integrated by
African-American students. As one of the black students is entering the
school, she drops a book and Forrest retrieves it on camera. Later,
Forrest visits the White House, drinks 15 Dr. Pepper sodas, and gets to
shake hands with the real President John F. Kennedy.Meanwhile, Jenny has grown up, left her abusive father to live with
another person, and ends up in an all-girls' school. Forrest shows up
and beats up Jenny's date because he thinks that the guy is getting
rough with her. Jenny gives Forrest his first sexual experience. She
cups his hand over her breast and he blows a gasket while Jenny's
roommateapparently asleeplistens in horror as Forrest admits that he
has messed up the roommate's bathrobe. Jenny informs Forrest that she
wants to become a folk singer like her idol Joan Baez. Forrest joins
the U.S. Army and takes a furlough to Memphis, Tennessee, to see Jenny
perform folk songs on stage. Forrest knows that Jenny got expelled from
her college for posing nude in a 'Girls of the South' issue of Playboy
magazine, but he isn't prepared for what he sees when she performs in
the nude singing a Bob Dylan song. When a spectator heckles Jenny,
Forrest comes to her rescue.Significantly, the film pioneered some revolutionary techniques, such
as inserting a live actor into historic archival footage of important
events as well as enabling Oscar nominated actor Gary Sinise to appear
convincing as a handicapped Vietnam veteran who has lost both legs in
combat. If the structure of "Forrest Gump" is reminiscent of David
Fincher's recent opus "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button," this is no
surprise because Eric Roth penned scripts for both "Forrest Gump" as
well as "Benjamin Button." Roth got an Oscar for his adaptation of
Winston Groom's novel. Not surprisingly, "Forrest Gump" was awarded
Oscars for best visual effects. Interestingly, Paramount Pictures
produced this film for $55-million dollars and coined over $600 million
dollars from it domestically as well as internationally.

******
25 October 2009
9
I loved the movie even though he was pretty much told the whole story
by himself. He made himself seem as if the whole world is gonna be OK
just the way it is. He goes threw a lot of different things but he gets
through it. he is a sweet and caring guy who has no problem telling you
what he feels. he would never lie or do anything to hurt anyone.this is an excellent movie if your trying to make a point u should
definitely watch.very good inspiring movie.His life is a lot like others but he gets through the difficulties and
loves everything even if it wasn't supposed to go down the way it so
happened to. Tom Hanks did a phenomenal job on playing the role of
forest gump.

******
23 October 2009
9
tom hanks was great in this movie. he really played the character well,
showing his ups and downs, emotions, anger, joy and good character
throughout the movie. it should be seen by everybody young and old.
what is great about this movie is how it captures the emotions and
events of this time period. young people who did not grow up at this
time (and we are getting older than we think) should see all the
happenings of this time. I know a lot of us have heard our parents talk
about how things were, but the movie and every character really fit
into their role and really captured the life of that time. forrest gump
as we all know was "special" and had to face many hardships. because of
that it would have been a little harder for him to succeed than the
other characters in the movie. however we see that with his honesty,
kind and good hearted character that he is able to surpass everyone in
the movie and become a well respected, loving father that we all could
call a role model.

******
6 October 2009
10
One of the most inspiring movies I ever seen ! Forrest not only show us
that ingenuity is a gift (I want mine back!) but decision is crucial in
life, maybe his retarded condition private him from hesitation on
important decisions, such a big advantage over the rest of regular
"intelligent" people. While the film exaggerates a bit, Forrest with
his initiative undertake and reach more goals and lives more
intensively his life than the rest of average "smarter" men. By not
having a life's vision, Forrest confront every challenge one for one
doing his life an exciting playground, achieving more, doing more and
helping others more, meanwhile most of us "the normals" are typecast in
our boring routine. Who is smarter ?

******
1 October 2009
10
I have only seen this film once but once was enough for me. This film
is a simple tale of goodness and light and how somebody can shine that
light on those less fortunate. Religion is not involved here at least
not in the conventional sense. The light is the sheer goodness of a
person who clearly cannot do or say anything to offend anybody no
matter how hard some people disrespect or try to offend them. In the
case of the man in the title role this is not an attitude that he
adopts to win favour or even artificial posturing in order to be
popular, it is who he is. There are people out there who will feed on
the mans positivity or goodness and hope by association to be renewed
or to have some beneficial effect rub off on them. And so Forrest goes
through life as if the world holds no surprises or perhaps everything
is a surprise, so when they come along he just adapts without any fuss
and just moves on. People like Forrest are rare indeed and the film
which charts his life is uncomplicated and just lays it out for all to
see. The entire cast and crew are to be congratulated on a very good
job as the film in the wrong hands could have been a disaster. I would
highly recommend anybody watch this film at least once, because for me
it has a very simple message and is also very entertaining.

******
26 August 2009
8
Forrest Gump is many many things, but what it amounts to is a realist
fantasy, like Ingmar Bergman's Fanny and Alexander or more recently,
Stranger than Fiction. It never takes itself too seriously and if you
choose to clear your mind of logical expectations, I think Forrest Gump
will put a smile on your face. It is a motion picture of pure optimism.The story begins on a bench in a park. On one side is Alabaman born,
Forrest Gump: a happy fellow with a box of chocolates and sub-par IQ.
He proceeds to tell the story of his life to the person on the other
side of the bench. During the course of thirty years, Gump went from
being a football star, to a Vietnam war hero, to a ping pong champion,
to a shrimp boat captain, to a business man, and ultimately to a
husband and father. His life was driven by his love for his only friend
Jenny, who ended up leading a not so successful life.The film is a drama, but like I said, there is a fair dose of fantasy
and comedy. The story runs pretty smoothly until the last third which
drags a bit and has perhaps one too many scenes. It reminds me of the
end to Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (It never ends!)Three sensational performances shine through. Gary Sinese at his best
plays Gump's eccentric war lieutenant who is frustrated by the loss of
his legs. Robin Wright Penn at her best, is Jenny whose life is so
harsh that she is also driven to suicide, until she is emotionally
reunited with Gump. Tom Hanks leads the way with a performance
definitely worthy of the Oscar he won.If treated the way it should be, Forrest Gump will be worth your time.

******
13 March 2009
10
No movie has touched me as much as Forrest Gump. At the end of the
movie you really feel lucky to have seen this movie and would want to
watch over and over again. Tom Hanks produced one of the best acting
skill ever which made him win the Academy-Award which he truly
deserved. If you are a real movie lover then Forrest Gump is the movie
that you'll never regret watching. It's one of those movies which
brings a smile on your face even when you are feeling low and lost
hope. The best part is when he is standing on Jenny's grave and Forrest
speaks his lines. Remember always that you are no different from others
and can achieve what others have. I would give it a 10/10 DO WATCH IT.

******
26 February 2009
10
For me it's one of the best movies I have ever seen. But I wanted to
say something else. I've just read book (Forrest Gump of course) and I'm very impressed.
This book is not as good as movie and I admire someone (Zemeckis? or
somebody) who read it, removed sub-plots almost like from cartoon
(spaceship, living in the jungle etc.), changed few things (meeting
with Bubba, Dan), added (cross-country running, hint about Apple etc.)
and made such a cool script. Finding book which is decent and changing it to Oscar-winning movie is
something what I like. In opposite to few movies (i.e godfather?) when
book is genius and it's just remade to movie (2 chapters removed is not
much of work).

******
29 October 2008
6
It's a peculiar film, Forrest Gump. You can hardly imagine the pitch:
'wholesome but mentally challenged John Doe takes us on a journey
through contemporary American history as its unsung hero'. Of course
this is precisely the character that appeals not only to The People but
specifically to The American People. Hanks's Gump occupies the
unassailable American moral ground of being unswervingly obedient to
his mother and her blend of Christian and homespun philosophy.I enjoyed Forrest Gump. I thought it was a funny, honest fantasy. Hanks
has his dppeltrump out for all to see, switching between goofy and
opaquely, intensely serious. Gary Sinise sneers effectively by his side
throughout and Sally Field is discreet but affecting as his mother.
Contrived, but by no means facile or patronising. 6/10

******
27 October 2008
9
I'd like to say first of all, that I absolutely love this film. When I
first saw this film in the theater I was taken back by how flawlessly,
the Director expressed the story of the title character Forrest Gump. I
am surprised however, by all the Forrest Gump haters out there, who
view this as some sort of propaganda machine, or film about a man who
skates his way through life and achieves everything. Boo hoo, are those
haters jealous because he did everything right or because he made "a
gazillion dollars"? Well, life is different for everybody. Maybe
somehow, these people don't believe that something like this is
possible? How could a simple, southern man from Greenbow, Alabama
succeed when all he does is follow the direction of others? This films
theme after all, (SPOILERS), is whether life is governed by destiny or,
by chance? I won't get into a debate about that here but, lets remember
this is fictional, and it's for entertainment. Don't take it so
seriously...enjoy it! The acting by Tom Hanks is beautiful. It is hard
to view Tom Hanks, now, as anything other than Forrest. His character
was completely submersed in this role. The accent was spot on, and the
journey through the south, (Alabama, Savannah Ga., etc), was
remarkable. Forrest is portaied as immediately different from the
supporting cast. He goes through the same course of life as everyone
around him but, he achieves his milestones in a unique way that only
makes sense, but possibly not, to Forrest. The title character always
brings his definition of life back to what he was taught by his
"Mamma." I think this is a very real, and touching way of showing
respect to all the mother's out there who are constantly defining for
their children what the world is about. The life of Forrest is logical
only to him. He doesn't question the advice given by his mother as
being wrong, and he stops at that. No further thought is involved, he
takes the advice and uses it as he "floats" his way through life. Every
scene in this film is used to convey how destiny and chance usually
occur at the same time.All in all I give this film two thumbs, way up. I recommend for anyone
who loves a great story, and wishes their lives could be this easy.

******
3 July 2008
10
It had been a little while since I watched Forrest Gump and it wasn't
but a few minutes before everything I loved about it came flooding back
and by the time the credits rolled and I had dried my tears I realized
that I think this is quite possibly the best film ever made. It may be
my favourite movie of all time and for good reason because it is stone
cold brilliant in every way and deserved everything from awards to box
office glory that it received. Previously I have stated that JFK is my
favourite film and in a complete league of it's own and now I state
that Forrest Gump belongs in that category of elite films. The story is
infamous and brilliant and touching and disturbing and covers every
aspect of genre you can think of. The cast is absolutely brilliant. The
direction is stunning and the special effects are unlike anything you
will ever see. Director Robert Zemeckis is a brilliant director and has
directed his way through many of my personal all time favourites
including the Back To The Future Trilogy, Who Framed Roger Rabbit, and
What Lies Beneath. The thing about his story telling is that it's
completely unique, there is something completely and utterly different
about his films and Forrest Gump is truly the pinnacle of that talent.
He seems to know his cast and surrounds himself with the best
performances possible.Tom Hanks is a brilliant actor, there is no doubt about it. But he
gives the absolute performance of his career as Forrest Gump, a man who
is not quite as smart as the average person and yet pure of heart and
indeed in many ways smarter than all of us. Hanks makes this character
his own, no one could ever play Gump. His tone and body language and
everything just embodies the character and it is one of the best
performances in film history. Robin Wright Penn plays Forrest's true
love and the romance is far beyond just your average romance. Penn is
good although I'm not sure she lives up to the rest of the cast. She
does do a great job at being versatile and playing her character
through the decades and through the different situations in history
from Southern girl to Hippie to mother. The chemistry between her and
Hanks is undeniable mostly because of the story that makes their love
so important to Gump. Gary Sinise is undeniably amazing in his role as
Lt Dan Taylor. I don't know who got the Academy Award that year in the
category he was nominated for but he was robbed!! His performance is
ground breaking and creates one of the best characters in film history.
Him and Hanks are just incredible together. Mykelti Williamson, in a
bit of a smaller role, is also brilliant as Bubba, Forrest's best good
friend in the army. His character is short lived but pivotal and he
does an amazing job. I wish I could cover the rest of this amazing cast
which includes Sally Field in an amazing role as Forrest's mama. This
cast is truly one of the best ever period.What else can I say about Forrest Gump? Beautiful romance, action,
drama, laughing, crying, life and death, I mean there isn't anything
this movie doesn't give you. It's just this brilliant epic journey that
just makes you appreciate life and tells history from a completely
different perspective. I've seen this film many, many times and yet for
the last half hour of the movie I sat there and watched it bawling my
eyes out. It isn't many movies that ever make me cry and it is even
less that a movie I have seen so many times can do that. If you haven't
seen Forrest Gump you're missing out on a film experience unlike any
other and an absolute classic the minute it was released. I understand
they are looking at turning the second novel, a sequel, into a film and
because I want to revisit these characters I would love a chance to see
it but I don't think it could ever live up to this original classic and
if the entire original cast including director Robert Zemeckis won't do
it...DON'T DO IT...see this movie now or again. 10+/10

******
21 July 2007
10
I have to say that no movie has touched me more than this one. Forrest
Gump had to go though happiness, sadness, happiness, and sadness during
his life. One of his BEST Friends, Bubba, died while they were at war.
Bubba and Forrest were going to have a shrimp boat after the war but
since Bubba didn't make it after the war Forrest took over the shrimp
business. He made a restaurant called Bubba Gump's shrimp company. But
one day Forrest's Mom passed away. So he put all the money he made from
the restaurant into a funeral.I would recommend this movie to ages 13 and over because there are some
very disturbing scenes. But if you love movie to make you cry, laugh,
and smile this is a great movie for you.

******
17 July 2007
9
So, what the hell is wrong with having a simple outlook on life? I
think the reason we have a lot of problems in life is because we're too
smart for our own good, that we always try to complicate things. I
think that's what this movie was saying. Forrest Gump took life on its
own terms, and he didn't sweat the little things. He just kept on
keepin' on, and that's what the movie is saying. "Don't sweat the small
stuff." You don't have to have an IQ of 75 to just relax and take it
easy. Gump may have been smarter than most of his "normal"
contemporaries. Contrary to what Jeanie said to him, he knows better
than most people what love is. His loyalty to her in spite of the way
she crapped on him until she was almost dead is a testament to that.
Until the end, she was a dingbat.Forrest first lost his best friend Bubba in Viet Nam. Then, he lost his
mother. Then, he lost his Jeanie. Through it all, he remained stoic.
There is something very noble in that. Intellectually challenged or
not, he was still a human being with feelings. He was smart enough to
know what dead is, what right and wrong are. When it gets right down to
it, that's all we really need to know. This is a great movie. My only
complaint about it is this guy who wrote the screenplay obviously
didn't know diddly squat about Bear Bryant. Bear was not a very
demonstrative coach. He wouldn't have been jumping up and down on the
sidelines screaming, "Run you sonofabitch, run!" Bear was always pretty
stonefaced on the sidelines. Also, I can't help wondering how they made
Gary Sinese look like he lost his legs. That was very impressive,
whatever they did to do that. Also, intermixing Gump with now dead
historic figures was very impressive, showing him shaking hands with
JFK, LBJ, Richard Nixon, John Lennon. Still, number one is it is a good
story. 9 out of 10.

******
8 January 2007
7
As a fan of the novelist Winston Groom, I looked forward to the
theatrical adaption of his great novel, "Forrest Gump" (a 20th century
"Huck Finn".) Much to my surprise, the movie was 180 degrees from the
book. The best example of the difference in tone between the movie and
book is the now famous "chocolate" line. In the movie, Forrest often
says; "Life is like a box of chocolates; you never know what you're
going to get." The only reference to chocolate in the book (which is
written in the first person) is the very first line: "Let me tell you,
being an idiot is no box of chocolates."The theatrical Forrest is a dim-wit who keeps falling into dung heaps
and comes out smelling like roses. In the book, Forrest is a dim-wit
who keeps falling into dung heaps and comes out smelling like a dung
heap. But both Forrests keep on plowing ahead; which is the saving
grace of the movie. While the book is much darker and satirical than
the movie, the movie does capture Forrest's ability to dust himself off
and keep going. And it captures the feel of the 50's, 60's and 70's as
Forrest stumbles from one adventure to the next, accidentally inserting
himself into historical events.But what really saves the movie is the performances by Tom Hanks, Robin
Wright and Gary Sinise. While I wish some things from the book hadn't
been changed (Jenny and Mrs Gump don't die, Forrest acts in a movie
with Raquel Welch, Forrest becomes a famous blues harmonica player,
etc) the "movie" version ends up telling it's own story. It may be a
completely different story than the book, but it is a story worth
seeing. If you love the book, be prepared to separate the movie
completely from the book. If you love the movie and haven't read the
book, I highly recommend you do so.

******
30 April 2006
10
This is the warmly amusing, thought provoking tale of Forrest Gump, a
man who despite low intelligence, manages to lead a fulfilled and
productive life...even gaining fame on many fronts.Forrest himself reveals his story in flashback to a series of assorted
passengers waiting at a bus stop bench. As a child growing up in rural
Alabama, he suffers from polio and must wear leg braces, in addition to
coping with ridicule from other school kids because of his diminished
mental capacity. Forrest discovers that he can run like the wind,
leading to a football scholarship and college diploma. Then he joins
the military and serves in Vietnam, where he saves the life of his
commander, Lieutenant Dan, but sees his best friend, Bubba, die in his
arms. Later he becomes a ping pong champion, attending competition in
Communist China. After being discharged from the army, Forrest sets up
a shrimp boat company, Bubba Gump, as he & pal Bubba had planned,
becoming a millionaire. Eventually he decides that he 'feels like
running', so spends about three years crossing the country! Not a dull
life for someone with an IQ of around 75.Interspersed with Forrest's personal tale are assorted historical
people and events from the late 1950's to 1970's. Forrest just happens
to find himself a central personage in various movements (KKK, Civil
Rights, and war protest), exposes Watergate, and inadvertently invents
the Smiley Face. He meets Presidents Kennedy, Johnson, and Nixon (who
bestow his Medal of Honour and such), teaches Elvis to dance, and
inspires John Lennon's song Imagine..all the while blissfully unaware.
Of course it's all nonsense (great special effects!), but these
exaggerated absurdities point out how the Forrests of this world do
contribute to society and that unsung heroes may lie behind famous
celebrities.Throughout his life, Forrest loves a girl named Jenny, who befriends
him during childhood and defends him against his taunting schoolmates.
For years they are childhood playmates 'like peas & carrots', and
Forrest imparts a feeling of safe refuge to Jenny, who has her own
trials dealing with her father's sexual abuse. Forrest's ongoing love
for Jenny is a constantly touching theme, even as she experiences a
turbulent young adulthood filled with sex and drugs, becomes a stripper
and later hippie, is involved with the Black Panters, and eventually
suicidal. Forrest does everything for Jenny and always seeks to protect
her, although for years she rejects his love and instead prefers
abusive men, a result of her childhood experiences. The story's end is beautiful but heart wrenching. Forrest & Jenny's
lovemaking produces a little son, who remains unknown to his dad
throughout his early years. By now Jenny has come to grips with her
personal demons, welcomes Forrest's unconditional love, and finally
agrees to marriage. Alas, she has also been diagnosed with a terminal
illness (possibly AIDS). Forrest & Jenny have a lovely wedding, but
shortly thereafter she dies and leaves their son, little Forrest, in
the care of his father. The scene where Jenny tells Forrest about his
son is surely the film's most moving, as Forrest is flabbergasted with
joy that he's the father of this beautiful boy but is also tearfully
concerned as to whether he's smart or like his dad. Jenny assures him
that little Forrest is a very intelligent child. Only the coldest heart
would remain unmoved by this scene, the later one at Jenny's grave, or
any of those showing little Forrest with his doting dad.The character of Lieutenant Dan is masterfully done, as initially
Gump's Commanding Officer resents Forrest for having saved his life,
forcing his adjustment to living without his legs. Later Lieutanant Dan
joins Forrest's shrimp boat operation and the pair become friends. It
is probably thanks to Forrest that Dan comes to peace with God,
following his Vietnam experiences. Forrest's 'best good friend', Bubba,
is also well captured, a rather slow underdog type who's shrimp
obsessed.Tom Hanks gives a brilliant Oscar winning portrayal of the rather slow
witted but pure hearted Forrest. Sally Field is also wonderful as his
practical and doting mother, who convinces Forrest that he can make
whatever he wants of his life and shouldn't feel inferior to anyone.
Early in the film, Mrs. Gump ensures her son's enrollment in a regular
school by sleeping with the principal!From an early age, Mrs. Gump informs her son that 'Stupid is as stupid
does'...the film's ongoing theme. Forrest is aware of his limited
intelligence but deals cheerfully and matter of factly with it,
experiencing no resentment over his situation or bitterness toward
those who put him down. He is the very model of innocence, the essence
of the pure in heart. Unlike the intelligent folk in the movie, Forrest
does NOT behave stupidly, but with kindness, generosity, loyalty, and
honour, always keeping his promises. It's a film that definitely makes
the viewer question...exactly who are the stupid ones in this story?
Certainly Jenny, with her unwise lifestyle choices. But frankly, in all
the ways that count, NOT Forrest. Only in the scene where Forrest so
touchingly questions Jenny about his son's intelligence do we grasp how
much Forrest has suffered, wanting his son spared any ridicule for
being slow but instead able to lead a 'normal' life with all the best
opportunities.This is a beautiful story, with surely one of the most endearing heroes
in cinematic history. Hopefully, it will inspire everyone to treat
those having mental limitations with the dignity and respect they
deserve. The picture of young Forrest running to escape pursuit by
those bicycling bullies is a vivid reminder of the cruel taunts the
mentally challenged sometimes suffer even in this supposedly
enlightened era. Forrest understands everything truly important in
life...family, friendship, love, country, and faith in God. It is a
tale of great morality and great simplicity. Especially with regard to
loyalty, we all have a lot to learn from Forrest Gump.

******
12 July 2005
4
Give me a break, this is nothing special. The only reason this movie
has the kind of reputation is does is because of the proved fact that
it is impossible for someone to play a leading role in which a
character is mentally handicapped and *NOT get a nomination, let alone
have the movie received well. Think about that for a second and you'll
see that's true. There are no movies that weren't received well where
an actor played a *main character with a *mental handicap. (keep in
mind the asterisked words, that's what qualifies my statement)There are movies like this I do like, this is simply not one of them.
This was boring because the film had no direction, it simply feels like
you're watching the biography of a person from some historical text
played out on the big screen. It's just one episode after the next
depicting the heroic acts of Forrest and showing the relationships
between him and the people he meets, but all these events don't build
into any storyline you can care about. Each individual episode presents
its own challenges to Forrest, but these feel isolated and doesn't
build to any kind of payoff.If you like stories like this, go watch Sling Blade, it's a much better
movie that doesn't put on a facade of being some grand spectacle of our
time.

******
18 April 2002
6

"Forrest Gump" is a great movie, although some people say it is "the
greatest ever made" and Tom Hanks' performance is "the best ever", quite the
contrary, though (actually, not THE contrary).Forrest Gump is a quite remarkable film, but unfortunately, its cheesier
than an extra-cheese pizza, and I found that Hanks' performance was a bit
overboard, and the film is a bit silly. "The Shawshank Redemption", and "Pulp Fiction" were far better films, that
lost to Forrest Gump. I found that that was quite bad. Sure, Forrest Gump is
good, and fun, but it is nothing compared to Shawshank and Fiction. And
Morgan Freeman, John Travolta, Nigel Hawthorne and others who gave
remarkable performaces, but lost to Hanks' overblown one.Anyway, that's my 2 cents, Forrest Gump's good, but has a lot of errors,
while Shawshank and Fiction were better, and didn't have many
errors."We blew it" - Easy Rider

******
7 April 1999
4

I don't get it. Not a bad movie, but I must have missed something, I do not
understand why all the hype or why it is considered a 'great' movie. The
emperor has no clothes. A couple of laughs, I guess a nice message about
living a life with quiet dignity, and a bunch of absurd and nonsensical
stuff thrown in for no apparent reason. Interesting when shining a light on
the destructive, hypocritical, and hedonistic underside of the 60's
movements, should have kept it going instead of getting too
silly. 


******
20 September 1998
4

I don't get it.  Although I'm a sucker for well-crafted appeals to universal
heartstrings, I was mildly repulsed by Hanks' Gump and his
dim-yet-supposed-to-be sage insights on the major events of modern American
life.  Technically, FG has the right stuff, but the overall effect is all
wrong.  Gump should be likable, but he just comes off as either clueless or
a hollow witness of events.  I'll leave this sorry box of chocolates for
someone else, thanks.

******
29 March 2015
1
This movie is unrealistic and personally I didn't enjoy it in the
slightest. I hate this movie and have never been impressed. There are
plot holes and many scenes where you just want to punch the main
characters. The script is atrocious and the acting is horrendous. I
have never been more disappointed in a movie. This movie is thought to
be touching and classic, but all you see is Tom Hanks and a lot of
pointless of love. For once the movie focuses on male love rather than
female but it never shows real love. Basically if given the chance I
would take this movie off the market because it sets such unrealistic
ideas for society.

******
17 July 2011
2
With this movie Hollywood tried to create something like an independent
movie. In my opinion they failed. It's like adding lots of elements
people like about independent movies and expecting something
meaningful. If you liked this one you should really have a look on some
serious movies.On the other hand it is a good thing they at least tried to create
something more meaningful. They tried to create something you could
really call art. Maybe they have been out of ideas, maybe they were
experimenting and the financial success and it's board recognition are
good signs. Just please don't create a movie if you don't really have
anything to talk about.

******
25 December 2010
7
Entertaining comedy/drama/fantasy has a lot to keep you busy (and
excellent special effects), but doesn't measure up to its epic
pretensions. It would've benefited from sticking to comedy and
eschewing sentiment. Instead it pushes every button imaginable to jerk
a reaction out of the viewer, and tries to dictate your emotions with a
pushy music score. The movie lapses into silliness at times, and is
self-indulgent for the last hour. Director Robert Zemeckis attempts to
evoke each era by illustrating its clichs and by scoring it to a
procession of over-familiar songs that serve as lazy, embarrassingly
obvious signifiers of their times (Sweet Home Alabama, Hound Dog,
Blowin' in the Wind, California Dreamin', For What it's Worth, On the
Road Again, Mrs. Robinson, etc.). I love a lot of those songs, but
they've become clichs themselves by now. Tom Hanks is funny and
convincing in the title role, but Forrest is too much of an invincible
saint to be very interesting.

******
17 July 2009
10
In my opinion this movie is one of the best ever made. Tom Hanks
created an extraordinary character and deserved an Oscar. The film is
so deep it is hard to described it in words. I don't have emotional
problems but I always cry on this movie. I don't know why but "Forrest
Gump" is perfect for me. Perfect in positive and creative way. It hits
into my heart. It gives unforgettable scenes which are truly
masterpiece. Every moment of this film is worth watching. This picture
shows life in fascinating way. It shows journey, fantastic voyage
through time and different aspects of life. There is also death in this
film - event that we can't escape or evade. Everyone has it's destiny.
My destiny was to watch this movie and never forget. I will always
remember this excellent piece of art. This is absolutely my number 1.
"Forrest Gump" is unique masterpiece. Great film about life itself also
about one amazing human life.

******
19 April 2009
10
Forrest Gump is an instant classic. It is easily lovable and has a
brilliant script, along with a career best performance from Tom Hanks,
great acting by the rest of the cast, a wonderful story and great
direction. The story itself is told in such a witty manner, keeping in
mind that the narrator is Tom Hanks and as he is a bit low on I.Q, he
does not take his life very seriously and merrily spends it. The movie
is long but it never drags on. I thought that even if it extended for a
few more minutes, I would not mind it.Tom Hanks gives a splendid performance and is one character that would
be remembered. The emotions are expressed through his eyes. It is very
hard not to shed a few tears or even keep your eyes dry when he cries
or is sad, especially during the death of his closest. Jenny's character is absolutely the opposite as she develops all wrong
habits and suffers throughout her life. Not a very likable character.
The other actors too give very good performances, mainly Sally Field,
Garry Sinise. Bubba is also humorous with his obsession with shrimps.Everything is good about this movie. The movie doesn't get boring at
all. One of the best movies I have seen. 10 on 10 for this film, which
is rare since I don't give such rating usually.

******
19 May 2008
10
If Eric Roth looks at this -- would be honored to say thank you for
"Forest Gump". I know several more remote and esoteric films, but every
time I see Forest Gump I come apart at the seams, more Kleenex each
time... and it's so worth it! Love is woven alongside tragedy it in a
way that makes me feel I'm riding one big crane shot of life. Gump
strips down what it means to be human in such a pure and heartbreaking
way. I know film is a collaborative medium (and though I'm pretty sure
Tom Hanks is our best bargaining chip for sparing the planet if we ever
have negotiate with hostile aliens, but his brilliance aside...) as a
screenwriter, I want to thank writers like Eric Roth and Winston Groom
for being the creating inception of a film so beautiful, it inspires
the rest of us -- especially me -- to keep aspiring to make something
good and to believe it's worth it to try.Thank you.Jilena Cori PS: Maybe I'll go blubber all over Tom Hanks' message board
now... damn, outta Kleenex...

******
5 October 2007
9
Forrest Gump is well, probably the best movie made by Hollywood. It
captures the aspects of everyday American life but of that of man who
has experienced war, met the president three times, met Elvis, John
Lennon, visited DC, was America's first ping pong champion, an American
philosophical slogan giver, and even a fit runner who ran across the
country. He is the All-American guy. It made you feel you were there in
60s when we landed on the moon, when Richard Nixon robbed the
Watergate, and when African-American were making the mark on America.
However despite it's emotional and innocent events it had some moments
like whe Jenny (god bless her soul even though she had done wrong) was
a prostitute, when JFK, George Wallace, Lennon, and more were shot, and
even when Forrest's mom had to sleep with a school principal so Forrest
could make it in life brang out the dark and dirty points of our nation
and leaves feeling a little guilty for how society is. This is why I
only give "Forrest Gump" a 9. I still like when he says "Big Bubblegum
Shrimp"

******
12 July 2007
10
Hanks and Senise are brilliant along with the rest of the cast. From
start to finish, most everyone will love this flick. I can't find fault
with this movie, and I am shocked by some of the negative comments on
this forum because it is a truly great film. I've watched this movie at
least 10 times and I just love it. This movie is filled with all the
emotions done with precision. Just sit back and enjoy it. In some ways
it is so light on the outside and so profound in other ways. Gump is a
wonderful movie for all ages and is so very deep. You will die laughing
and also cry your eyes out. All you need is a pulse and you will love
this movie for ever. 10 out of 10! One of the most memorable movies of
all time.

******
3 July 2007
9
Forrest Gump is a heart-breaking film of witt and startling grace.
Another Oscar for Tom Hanks, who is unforgettable in his portrayal of
Forrest Gump. He brings a touching gravity to the role of an idiot
savant from the South who finds strength in God, country, his childhood
pal, Jenny (Robin Wright Penn), and his great mother (Sally Field). When Forrest falls a few IQ points shy of minimal school requirements,
his Mother knows who to sleep with to bend the rules. Her son has a
gift. As Forrest makes his pilgrim's progress from the '50s to the
'80s, he becomes a college football star, a Vietnam war hero, a
world-class ping pong player, a shrimp tycoon and even a father.Forrest is everything we admire in the American character - honest,
brave, loyal - and the film's fierce irony is that nobody can stick
around him for long."Forrest Gump" is an entertaining film of extreme importance. It
completely reiterates the idea that no one should be prejudiced for
being different. What a superb example of film-making! 9/10

******
1 July 2007
9
Forrest Gump is a classic movie about a not so bright man who was in a
lot of historical moments but because of his brains he does not realize
the effect of his life so he does such things as teach the to be Elvis
his(Elvises) famous walk,tell JFK that he had to pee and became a
famous Squid salesman. Whats really good about Forrest Gump is that it
shows that while he had an adventurous life he did not have and overly
great happy fun life and the movie shows a lot of Forrest Gumps life
and does not leave anything out which makes it one of the most famous
movies ever. Tom Hanks performance in this movie ranks 2nd on my
favourite performances ever(first being Leonardio Dicaprios performance
in "Whats Eating Gilbert Grape". Overall I rate this movie 91% for
being an enjoyable movie and putting in more information then most
other movies definitely a must see for everyone.

******
6 June 2007
10
This contains spoilers. This movie is fantastic. It is excellent. It is
great. Only one word can describe this movie. Perfect. This is a
perfect movie that was a landmark film. This is a great movie. It is
incredibly well made with a great story and script. Tom Hank's
performance is just amazing. He does an amazing job. It is easily the
best performance of the 90's. It is also the best performance as a
mentally retarded person. It is just amazing. I love this movie. I
think that the greatest part about this movie is the fact that it
teaches you a lesson. It teaches you that you don't have to be a smart
person to do incredible things. That is why I love this movie. It's
amazing. I mean, he has leg braces, which he breaks off when he tries
to run, he becomes a college football all-star, he becomes a Vietnam
veteran who wins the congressional medal of honor. That is just
amazing. I don't want to tell you anything else if I haven't already
ruined it for you. It is is just amazing. I can understand why people
hate this movie. I am not like them. I love this movie. *Spoilers* What
I also find to amazing is the fact that he only has four friends
throughout the movie. Three of which die and the other loses both of
his legs. His mother dies of cancer, Bubba gets killed in combat in
Vietnam, Jenny has AIDs, and Leuitanit Dan loses his legs in Vietnam.
That is amazing. I love this movie. This is one of my ten favorite of
all time. I think that it is one of the ten best of the nineties, and
is easily one of the best 30 over all ever made. I think that it is
underrated, even though it is at number 80 something. This is a great
movie. 10/10.

******
4 June 2007
9
The movie Forrest Gump, directed by Robert Zmeckis and written by
Winston Groom, is a fascinating film with a lot of great themes. It was
released in 1994 with a great actor, Tom Hanks playing the main
character Forrest Gump. It won six Academy Awards, which proves that
many people liked the film.This story is set in a very small fictional town in Alabama, which
presents the whole world. It is a microcosm of the world. The filmmaker
wanted viewers to empathize with Forrest. He wanted us to know how
stupid it is to judge people by intelligence and appearances. This film
has a very long time setting, from the late 1950s to the late 80s, to
show the growth of America and its loss of innocence, in modern times. Winston Groom presented the characters in a very interesting way by
using some of the characters surrealistically but some very
realistically. Forrest Gump, who is played by Tom Hanks in the film, is
presented as an "everyman". He is used surrealistically and is a
character that is used symbolically. This has a universal appeal. His
story applies to every single one of us. Forrest Gump was born in a small town in Alabama as an idiot, and had
an IQ of 70, which is low compared to "normal" kids. He is judged upon
intelligence and appearances, but some of the things he says actually
have deep meanings. Tom Hanks was perfectly cast. His gestures, face
expressions, and the way he talked made the character seem alive and
very realistic. Sally Fields, who played Mrs. Gump, did a great job
presenting the determination of the mother's character. She is a very
realistic character. Mrs. Gump is willing to do anything for her son.
She is very protective and she didn't want Forrest to go to a special
school, so she even slept with the Principal of a school to make him
allow Forrest to go to that school. Jenny, who is played by a wonderful
actress Robin Wright, is also a realistic character. She was the only
child who was nice to him in school, and that's why Forrest falls in
love with her. When she was young, her father physically but also
sexually abused her. Jenny's dad symbolizes bad fatherhood, whereas
Mrs. Gump symbolizes good motherhood. Jenny has a lot of
disappointments in her life and also tries to commit suicide, which
shows how parenting is important and can ruin one's life. Lt. Dan is a
super realistic character that Forrest meets during the Vietnam War.
During the war he loses both legs and nearly dies, but Forrest saves
his life. Forrest helped Lt. Dan not give up his life, but start a new
fresh life catching fresh shrimps together. They start up a shrimp
company and make a lot of money. This develops the theme of true
friendship.There are many other themes in this story, such as determination,
tolerance, and parenting. But I think there are two very clear and
important themes. "Life is a like a box of chocolates" is one famous
Forrest Gump quotations. This quote hints us one of the theme of this
story. It sounds unintelligent, because he is holding a box of
chocolates and says it while he's taking one out and eating it, but if
you think about it, it has a very deep meaning. You don't know what's
going to come up in your life, just like you don't know what kind of
chocolate might come out. Life's unexpected. But is it really just
destiny, or can life be chosen? The quote, "Stupid is as stupid does"
tells us another important theme. It's telling us not to judge by
appearances or intelligence. Winston Groom is giving us a very
important lesson: judge on actions, not reputation.Overall, the casting and acting of the actors, and each of the four
story elements were well presented. The setting and the idea of the
universal theme were very well developed. Also, the idea of Winston
Groom to present the characters both realistically and surrealistically
was brilliant. I think that this movie is very effective and it has
messages that teach people a lot of things. Forrest Gump is a movie
that everyone definitely should see.

******
29 May 2007
10
I must say that one of the best movies I've seen in the past ten years
has got to be Forrest Gump. The writing alone is more than anything
than I could have thought, even after hearing so many people quoting
the movie and Forrest. As far as acting goes, Tom did a wonderful job
as Forrest. However, I must admit that sometimes Forrest's narration
got slightly annoying. Nevertheless, all of the actors in the film did
a wonderful job. A particularly surprising performance by the Actress
that played Jenny sticks out in my mind.The editing was good, although I think it could have been slightly
shorter. But there isn't enough wrong with the editing to complain
about. The characters were all made to immediately grasp the audience's
attention, which is what happened moments after they were introduced.None of the music really sticks out, but it definitely wasn't anything
to complain about. The overall mood of the film, though, is what really
helps bring it together. I was half afraid I might let a tear slip
close to the end of the film; not really because Jenny dies, but more
because of how happy Forrest is just having the life that he does with
his son. And as he flashed back to the scenes on the boat, in Vietnam,
and his running as he looked at the different skies at different times
of day, I realized the beauty that the film makers were trying to
capture through the eyes of this slightly retarded man.All in all, I could really not ask for much better of a film.

******
16 April 2007
2
"Forrest Gump" is one of the most overrated films ever made. The fact
this beat "Pulp Fiction" for the Best Motion Picture Oscar just proves
the Academy is as shallow as the movie-going public. "Forrest Gump"
isn't well-made or an emotional experience, its just manipulative. The
fact Tom Hanks is a charming presence doesn't detract from the fact
that the character of Forrest Gump is entirely one dimensional. The
supporting performances are even duller. The direction by Robert
Zemeckis is occasionally impressive (particularly the montage sequences
detailing the popular culture at the time), but is aesthetically dull
and far too polished and manufactured. Also, the soundtrack seems
selected for the purpose of selling the soundtrack album as opposed to
meshing with the on screen action.What makes all this the more troubling for me is that the central
concept, an mentally retarded man wandering through several decades of
pop culture, had so much potential as satire. However, the filmmakers
squandered that to make an easy and simplistic film calculated to
please nondiscriminatory audiences. The film's humor comes across as
cute when it should be scathing. "Forrest Gump" is yet another
manipulative feel-good hit that left me unimpressed. (2/10)

******
11 March 2007
9
use of various techniques highlights how change is inevitable and how
it is always going to occur. The imagery that is used is incredible and
i had never seen anything like it before. For example, take the seen
where Forrest is running from the bullies, he is running as hard as he
can with his leg braces on when suddenly the braces break of and he is
transformed into a free man who can run for himself and do what he
wants. The plot is also excellent. a movie that is some ways similar to ' rain
man' brings tears to your eyes as well as explores the change that was
occurring in the society that surrounded Forrest. Things such as the
Vietnam war, the political side of things and the change of social
standards to 'hippies' changed the society which shaped the way Forrest
grew up. The way the movie is set out should also be applauded, the
setting on the bus stop bench and the changes that occur to him even
while he is sitting there indicates how well this movie links together
the changes that have shaped Forrest in the past, and the new
influences on his life that are changing him more and more into another
person.9/10

******
3 February 2007
10
In truth, I'm not a huge fan of Tom Hanks - films such as "Big" have
left me cold - but the first time I saw Forrest Gump I went out of the
cinema, bought another ticket and went straight back in. Hanks is
fantastic in the lead role, he lends a tremendous sense of reality to
the role of the social outcast that is Forrest Gump.What's great about this movie is that there's undoubtedly something in
it for everyone. Love, humour, history and war all come together in
this cinematic masterpiece. Some of the historical allusions are
executed perfectly. I won't mention any as they are some of the best
parts of the film, but anyone with any knowledge at all of American
popular history will love this film.Some of the war scenes are a little graphic, but certainly not to the
extent of other films such as "Saving Private Ryan" etc. Besides, the
military moments just endear you yet more to Gump.If you can, you must see this movie - there is NO way you will be
disappointed!

******
23 January 2007
10
Forrest Gump is simply amazing. It is one of my favourite movies of all
time. It is inspiring. It is by far one of Tom's best. As a boy Forrest
Gump is known as stupid and is always picked on. But through thick and
thin he at least he always thought he had his best friend Jenny.But
with some turns for the worst Forrest is without Jenny and gone to
Vietnam. By using his big heart he is proclaimed a hero. And how he
comes through on his promises and show everyone what real friends
should be like.THis movie will have you very sad and it will make you think of what
life is really about. Because this movie is about the life of a simple
man who because of his kindness succeeds! This movie is of
love,action,drama and of Forrest Gump a hero.

******
6 July 2005
8
Way, way too many people think this is the greatest movie ever made.
They clearly haven't seen enough movies and their idea of a great book
must be something like "Tuesdays with Morrie." Americans do tend to be a sentimental lot, fond of oversimplification
and easy answers. Still, my China-born wife, daughter of a party member
who didn't know ANY of the cultural or historical references when she
first saw it, thinks it's the best American movie she's seen. So there
is something universal and powerfully emotional here.More than anything else, this is a work of superior craftsmanship that
seems to inspire many people to read far too much into it. This is not
a profound film, but it is a very well-made, highly entertaining one.So many others have mentioned "Being There" as the smarter, meaner
version of "Gump" that I'd like to add my voice to that chorus. It is a
travesty that "Being There" is now largely forgotten. If you admire the
structure of "Gump" make sure you get around to renting it. Hell, if
you hate "Gump" get around to renting it.

******
30 January 2004
7
I found this to be an entertaining film, certainly. However, I just
don't see it as one of the top 250 films of all time. Tom Hanks does a
great job playing Forrest Gump throughout the film. Sally Field as his
mother is also quite good, so the problem isn't with the acting. The
story is a shade weak, I think. It skips around a good bit and ends up
slightly disjointed. Overall, the story is OK, but not 6 Academy Awards
worth. It's trying to preach a sermon about ordinary (or less) people
being able to make it, yet the message gets lost in the rambling story.
I just don't think it was quite in the league that it currently finds
itself in. All in all, a very good film, but not a great one. Looks
like I'm in the minority, though!

******
18 October 2003
8

Oscarmovies are mostly the kind of movies that are enjoyable to watch but
with a very overrated factor but luckily for me (the movie lasts 3 hours)
this movie ain't like this. Believe me, anyone who says this is the best
movie ever made must have lost some brain cells but it is just entertainment
with a high standard. Forrest Gump shows you the American history of the
21st Century in where anything that is of historical worth is linked with a
so-called stupid (from Lennon to Reagan). The acting of Tom Hanks is as
usual genius, just one of the best actors ever, and you can start saying
this movie is totally Americanized (it is, but never works on the nerves)
but the focal points are clear : humour and an outstanding
Hanks....

******
6 June 2003
8

When I was a kid I loved Forrest Gump. Now I dont love it. Dont get me
wrong, its a good movie with an interesting idea but now I just dont love it
anymore. The plot is interesting because it focus's on a man that doesnt matter and
puts him into these big historical events. Tom Hanks brilliantly plays
Forrest Gump and deserved his oscar. Gary Sinise was very good. Robin Wright
Penn was average at best, she is just not a good actress. Sally Field is
good as Forrest's Mom. The movie is well written and pretty well directed. But I just dont think it
deserved Best Picture. Its Oscar material but definitely not oscar winning
except for Hanks. It won because it was the most sentimental of the
nominees, I suppose. Shawshank Redemption was a better movie and Pulp
Fiction was better than both. 

******
19 February 2003
8

Dont get me wrong this is a good movie but it is way overrated. Sure, it has
Great performances by Tom Hanks and Gary Sinise but It just didnt do as much
for me as it did for other people. It has a pretty good script and pretty
well directed but the movie is too long and can get a little boring. Overall
I give it an 8 out of 10. Its a good movie, just not one of my
favorites.

******
7 February 2003
7

Hollywood produces this kind of feel-good movie all the time: They're corny
and over-sentimental, they promote traditional family values and are an
example of how the little guy can live the American dream, y'all. And
Forrest Gump is guilty of all of this, but somehow it all fits together and
is an entertaining and genuinely moving film.Tom Hanks excels as lovable half-wit Forrest (kind of a cross between Homer
Simpson and Superman) and gets into all sorts of nutty adventures whilst
exploring America's recent social history. But essentially this is the story
of Forrest's fruitless pursuit of his childhood sweetheart Jenny. Forrest's
mental backwardness is never really taken too seriously in the film, but it
forms a constant and unspoken division between Forrest and the girl of his
dreams, and it is this subtle undercurrent throughout the whole film which
makes is so watchable.However, it's cringe-worthy and moving in equal measure - the scenes in
which Forrest meets Elvis and John Lennon are incredibly naff. But overall
it succeeds. Bizarrely, the film  won the 1994 'best picture' Oscar ahead of
Pulp Fiction and The Shawshank Redemption, and whilst it's clearly not in
the same class as either of those two, this is the best corny,
over-sentimental, feel-good  film I've ever seen! 7/10.


******
19 May 2008
10
'Forrest Gump' is one of those movies that will blow you away from your
living room, and into the world of the title character. Tom Hanks does
a superb job in acting as the simple-minded man Forrest Gump whose
positive look on life and whose kind friendliness will grasp your
emotion. Jenny, Lieutenant Dan, and even Bubba are all characters that
are well-done enough to blow you away. This movie is truly a classic,
and I would personally recommend it to anyone. 'Forrest Gump' is not in
the least bit like any other movie I have seen, and though some parts
are very sad, happiness amounts in the end. 'Forrest Gump' is a true
cinematic masterpiece. Rating: PG-13 for drug content, some sensuality, and war violence

******
28 June 2007
4
Most opinions have already seen the light of day here, so I'll be
brief.As a middle-aged Brit who has had a relatively positive life, I
positively loathed the premise on which this film was based - if you
are good-hearted then you will triumph against adversity no matter what
obstacles life throws into your path (with the subtext "In America").
Sorry, it just ain't true, even in America. I'm afraid to say that I
loathed the way that America took this message to its heart even more
than I loathed the message.And I have always disliked the way the Academy often favours "disease
of the week" performances (I always rated Ernie Hudson's performance as
a similarly afflicted character in "The Hand That Rocks The Cradle" -
why did that get overlooked?).But let me be fair. There is a short sequence where Gump tries to ask
Jenny if his son is normal - maybe 20 seconds in total. Hanks'
performance in this sequence is nothing short of phenomenal and, on its
own, justifies his Oscar in this film, even if the rest of it is
nothing special.

******
26 June 2007
10
This was such a great movie, Tom Hanks deserved the Oscar, he was
amazing! This movie has one of the best actors and actresses you can
imagine! Robin Wright Penn, Tom Hanks, Sally Field, they're just so
great, and the plot of the movie is so great, because their are people
like that, and it's so true that that could happen, and it did happen.
Like their were people like that in the 60's, 70's, and 80's, like when
Robin's character gets A.I.D.S., that happens all the time, and when
Mykelti's character dies in war, happens everyday, and when Sally's
character dies from cancer, happens everyday. This movie is so true and
just so great! I love it! Overall this movie is the best! 10000 stars
:D

******
18 June 2007
9
This movie is one of Tom Hanks best performances. He plays Forrest Gump
and he narrates his life about having a low IQ and meeting his love
interest Jenny (Robin Wright Penn). This movie It chronicles Gump's
experiences, by chance, with some of the most significant people and
events in American history like Elvis Presley, JFK, Lyndon Johnson,
Richard Nixon and service during the Vietnam War. Ulimately, he
surprisingly makes huge accomplishments like being honorably discharged
from the military and leading a healthy and successful lifestyle. It
sends a strong message that even some people with low IQ could achieve
the greatest in life. Forrest touched the lives of many people, without any idea what he is
really achieving due to his low-IQ. Still, his successes like becoming
a football star and saving the life of fellow soldiers are evidence of
the superb acting, heartwarming events and awesome directing. There is
spirit and humor in the film, which provides some comedy-relief to the
turmoil of the 1960s. Overall, one of the best films in cinema history and certainly worthy
of its Oscar wins. Grade A

******
19 April 2007
9
at its best. When blockbusters work they do so through creating an
alternate universe near enough to find our emotions while effecting
magical art, beauty and experience. Forrest Gump is a shining example
of that clarity. Hanks' performance is so natural that no wheels can
been seen turning, astonishing when compared to Rain Man, the several
iterations of "Of Mice and Men", and a myriad other movies where low IQ
individuals are portrayed. Hanks brings to Gump dignity and
individuality that allows us to love him without sympathy for his
condition. All the supporting actors play off this lead wonderfully,
without exception. The result is a fantasy as heartfelt as any in my
experience. A truly wonderful film.

******
2 December 2006
5
I just can't believe that this movie is rated so highly in the IMDb Top
250.I only just watched the film recently and I would't watch it
again.I am definitely in the minority amongst people I know that have
seen the movie.They all seem to love it.So why didn't I?I'll give my
reasons.First off,it is too long and I almost gave up on it half way through.I
have to say that I found Forrest Gump to be annoying as well.I know
that he is supposed to be a bit slow,but getting hit in the
'ButtOCKS'(You know the way he says it!!!) and "My name is Forrest
Gump,they call me Forrest Gump" had me turning down the volume.Let's
not forget "Life is like a box of chocolates",on second thoughts,maybe
we should forget about it.I have seen Tom Hanks' performance described
as astounding in other reviews.He is OK,definitely not astounding.The
best acting came from Gary Sinise and even then they sugar coated his
character at the end.The major problem for me though was when he got it together with his
lifelong girl friend.I couldn't believe how contrived this felt and the
only reason it happened was to tug at the heart strings in a cynical
way.She dies of course but she has given birth to Forrests' child.Boy
oh boy,did they really want you to sob your heart out.It didn't work
for me at all.I can feel emotional when watching a movie,'It's A
Wonderful Life' gets me every time.But this type of clinical and
unrealistic 'emotion' left me cold and bored.So this film is rated above 'Gladiator' is it?Not in a million
years.'Forrest Gump' is often described as a heartwarming tale.Just
watch it again to see how cold and manipulative it really is.

******
8 October 2006
7
(r#79)I would lie if I said that Forrest Gump isn't an extremely well made
movie. From the acting, to the feel-good story, to the pacing, comic
timing, and fantastic soundtrack, it is one of the best movies ever
made. Tom Hanks is good as the titular character, and Gary Sinise and
Robin Wright Penn make for a strong supporting cast. Robert Zemeckis'
direction hits all the right notes. The movie is also visually
beautiful. So why did I only give it a 7 out of 10? Well, as well
produced, directed and acted as the film is, there is an underlying
cynicism that doesn't work well with the movie's innocent and
good-hearted nature. The "heart-breaking" scenes become more and more
obvious and deliberate with each viewing. Don't get me wrong, this is a
great feel-good story and I did love it when I was younger. Maybe I am
just growing more desensitized to this kind of warm-hearted, mushy
stuff. The problem probably lies more with me than with the film
itself, but I still can't help but feel that Zemeckis was a bit too
elaborate. There are scenes that, when you're re-watching the film,
seem written specifically to make the audience crack up in tears. It
borders on being manipulative, rather than letting the audience think
for itself.The movie could have worked as a serious drama. I'm a sucker for movies
about mentally challenged men and I loved both "Sling Blade" and the
more obscure "Den Enfaldige Mrdaren". In the former, Billy Bob
Thornton delivered a total class act. He embodied his character, Karl,
to the point where you couldn't possibly compare him to his role in,
say, Bad Santa. In "Den Enfaldige Mrdaren", Stellan Skarsgrd was also
utterly believable. But I just can't buy Hanks in this role, even if
it's probably the one he'll be remembered for. Thornton and Skarsgrd,
in their respective roles, *were* their characters. They were as human
and real as you and me. Hanks' performance is a pure live-action
cartoon, a caricature of a mentally challenged man. He's just too
goody-goody. Too pure of heart. Too goofy and lovable. He's a man with
no dark sides, and as such he's completely unbelievable. I did laugh at
Gump's cute lines and catchphrases. I did feel for him when he got
bullied around and when he finally got the girl in the end. But I
wonder if anyone actually bought Gump as a character rather than just
"Tom Hanks playing a mentally challenged guy".Another problem is that the movie refuses to take any real risks. There
is nothing controversial about the subject matter and nothing really
inventive about the movie-making (although it is quite an achievement
to fit an entire lifetime into a single film!) 'Gump' is not a movie
that pushes the envelope in any way.This is still a very enjoyable movie and first-timers will probably
love it. It took a lot of viewings for me before my strong feelings for
it started to falter. On the surface, "Gump" is one of the best
feel-good movies ever made. But if you read between the lines, it is a
cynical and very elaborate movie, nearly manipulative, and specifically
designed to make you laugh, cry and pay for repeated cinema viewings.
At least Hanks and Sinise do their best.

******
26 March 2001
7

There's something of a tradition in fiction of using the idiot savant to
hold the mirror up to society and reflect its foibles. The figure of the
Good Soldier Schweik was one I remember being introduced to in my early
years at university. Forrest Gump is also a soldier for much of this
picture's duration, but the satire is diluted to no more than a few bum and
fart jokes in the presence of the great and the good.Maybe it's this evasiveness that caused this film to attract such a storm of
criticism from the Left when it first appeared. Seven years on, it's hard to
see the film's reluctance to take on biting social satire as something it
deserved to be damned for. More likely, it's the film's unflattering
portrayal of the counter culture of the sixties that made its baby boomer
critics touchy. For the most part, it's a gentle and appealingly whimsical
picture. Australian - and more particularly, Melbourne - viewers will
recognize in it something of the spirit of Michael Leunig's cartoons. In
keeping with this spirit is the one aspect of this film that could be
regarded as controversial, which is its scepticism toward causes.Tom Hanks is excellent. It says something about the rest of the world's
stereotypes about American culture that one of America's biggest movie stars
can hold the screen for hour after hour while remaining the most
self-effacing of actors. There is charm and real emotion in his performance.
If the film sometimes veers into sentimentality (and it does) it is not
Hanks' fault. The film isn't a masterpiece. As I say, it does sometimes lapse into
sentimentality, and it annoys me that, like Rain Man, it can't acknowledge
disability without conferring on its disabled characters superhuman talents
of one kind or another. And, as I'm sure others have pointed out, the trick
shots involving Gump's encounters with various historical personages had
already been done - to much sharper comic effect - by Woody Allen in Zelig.
However, for me the film's greatest specific failing is that it doesn't do
more with the character of Gump's love, Jenny, who doesn't do much more in
this film than turn up every half hour or so and look beautiful. I thought
there was scope there to explore the nature of their mutual dependence more
deeply, and to illuminate both characters in the process. To some extent
this does happen with the character of Lieutenant Dan, a nicely drawn
character who provides the right sort of counterweight to
Gump.I don't expect that I will want to see this film again and again, the way I
keep going back to Leunig's cartoons, which have a kind of natural
wisdom-in-innocence that Zemeckis' film sometimes visibly strains to
achieve. It's not a film that particularly goes anywhere, not that it really
means to. But, a little to my surprise, I did enjoy watching it.


******
26 June 2009
1
I was drawn here, because this awful movie is on TV as I write.I'll keep the griping to a minimum, but I hated just about everything
this movie dished up.I don't hate it quite as much as Independence Day, but it is a very
close second, for very many the same reasons.When making fois gras, the farmer holds the goose's neck and rams a
funnel into its beak. Then the farmer pours corn into the funnel, force
feeding the goose, very much like many American movies are made and
presented today.And the viewers sit there beaks agape !!!

******
31 May 2007
9
The movie "Forrest Gump" sends some very important messages to its
viewers, by using different themes, a special setting, an unusual plot,
and an "everyman" characterization. I think this movie is amazing. It
follows the life story of Forrest Gump. It is a modern classic, which
will probably be famous always, and will always be applauded.This movie has a universal theme of acceptance and tolerance. Forrest
repeats the phrase "stupid is as stupid does" many times in the film.
It shows how people judge others on their academic intelligence, not on
their emotional intelligence. Forrest has a very intuitive emotional
intelligent, but he is judged by his academic intelligence, which is
not very high. It presents to people how "life is like a box of
chocolates," and how you can choose what to do but you can't choose
what you are and what your destiny is. The main character, Forrest Gump
goes through many incidents in his life, which he doesn't choose. It
also shows how Forrest is like a "mockingbird", bullied and judged
unfairly because of his actions, appearance and understanding of things
happening around him.The setting of this movie is special. It takes place in a small
fictional town in Alabama, and in the wider world for 3 generations,
from late 1950's threw to late 1980's. The film begins in Forrest
Gump's hometown. Forrest is born with a low IQ of 70. He has polio and
has to wear braces on his legs. He has troubles being accepted by a
school and has a very difficult time fitting in. He meets a girl named
Jenny. Jenny has a horrible childhood that involves a father that
drinks and sexually abuses her. Forrest has a very strong feeling of
wanting Jenny as a girlfriend and follows her through the whole film.
He goes through many realistic incidents, but his response to them is
surrealistic. One of those incidents was the Vietnam War, where he
meets two new friends called Bubba (Mykelti Williamson) and Lt. Dane
(Gary Sinise). He learns from both of them the meaning of friendship
and commitment to one another. He also teaches them a couple of
lessons; the real meaning of "stupid is as stupid does" and that
everybody is equal and have feelings. Jenny appears in his life many
times and leaves each time, mostly in the end; she leaves some "foot
steps" after her. Those "foot steps" always lead him back to her and
her influence on his life.Both the actors' casting and performance were very good. An American
director named Robert Zemeckis directed the film. Tom Hanks, who plays
the role of Forrest Gump, does a good job of talking in a southern
accent although he is not a Southerner. His character is used in a
surrealistic way. Tom Hanks narrates the movie. He talks as a first
person narrative. The way he talks creates an unintelligent impression
from the viewer's point of view. Sally Fields who plays Mrs.Gump,
Forrest's mother symbolizes a good motherhood, determination and
protection of human values. Jenny (Robin Wright) represents total
acceptance; she is the first one to really accept Forrest as he is. She
never judges him on his academic abilities.The movie sends its themes and messages in very unusual but interesting
ways. It basically tells about the real and significant incidents
through a long period of time. The movie definitely earned the 6
Academy awards that it received. It influenced so many people of many
different ages in different ways. The script was very touching and the
performances were amazing in presenting it. I think "Forrest Gump" is a
film that everybody HAS to see.

******
29 April 2007
10
Was Forest Gump made with the intention of being a depressing movie? I
don't really think so. I think it was made with the intention of being
sad at parts, but ultimately a feel good movie that was supposed to be
quite funny at parts, entertaining, and even educational...not to
mention a great soundtrack.For me, the movie was all those things, but unfortunately, I found the
film, throughout all these jokes and happy moments, to be depressing.
For a guy who doesn't cry much at movies, I bawled at this one.I don't really know what my point is...I was sad.10/10.

******
14 January 2000
10

The moment I saw that Tom Hanks made a movie called Forrest Gump, I knew it
was about some person's life, as all movies whose names are the name of a
person.But there was something different about Forrest Gump... This shocked me a
lot, it was just different than other movies, and I could not figure out
why.There is no doubt about this: Tom Hanks best performance. (In my opinion..)
I think nobody could have done a better job than Hanks, because he was
simply spectacular.This movie was so good, because while watching it, you get to like Forrest,
and you don't want anything bad to happen to him, and you feel good when he
does something right, or when he gets good things, even by
luck.It also had a bit of comedy, which I think it was nice... (As a matter of
fact, I think the little comedy parts of this movie were funnier than the
whole Austin Powers movie).Forrest Gump really got into me.. It's a feeling that is a little hard to
explain.. But if you watch it carefully and paying a lot of attention you'll
probably find out how good this movie is, and how real things are.. This
movie could have been a true story.. After all, nobody knows if there is
someone out there just like Forrest Gump.When I finished watching this movie, I knew it would definitely win both the
best Actor and best Movie awards.This movie deserves a 10/10 score.. more than a lot of other movies that are
rated higher than this.


******
6 May 1999
2

Phew!  I gave this one two stars, just because some of the effects were
quite good.  Other than that, I have to say, there is very little to like.
Perhaps you have to be a baby-boomer to a really appreciate it.  I'm a
buster myself, and I've never been able to understand the wodges of gooey
praise that boomers like to pile on to this fetid piece of
corn.Tom Hanks (whom I actually like) has to hold a record for the easiest
Oscar
in history.  How hard could it be to just belt out your lines in a flat
monotone, without ever having to show any sign of comprehension or complex
emotion?  Forrest Gump in love looks an awful lot like Forrest Gump
confused, or Forrest Gump angry, as far as I can tell.  The members of the
Academy are suckers for mentally disabled protagonists, but Hanks's Gump
has
neither the depth of Dustin Hoffman's Raymond ("Rain Man") Babbit nor the
extraordinary movements and expressions of Daniel Day-Lewis's Christy
Brown.If, like me, you like to see ALL the Oscar winners, I suppose you'll have
to
endure Forrest Gump at some point in your life.  Otherwise, stay
away!

******
3 January 1999
3

The most dishonest, hypocritical movie ever made.  It disguises its
right-wing political message by using Gump to cover up its commentary on the
60s--which is profoundly nasty and negative.  He is a hero because he can
ignore all the social evils around him--is that not a commentary?  I
understand that the moviemakers denied they were trying to send a message.
They lie.  I'll take my political propaganda straight,
please.

******
14 March 2014
1
There are many ways that this movie turned my stomach. The idea that a
mentally challenged man can achieve such successes in life pushed me
way beyond my ability to suspend disbelief. Just one example among
many: was I supposed to believe that Gump could be a successful
football player on the University of Alabama team? How did he even get
into the university? Given the tone of the movie I doubt that this was
meant as a sarcastic comment on the intelligence of college football
players, but that is how I saw it. It's an insult to real players who
have worked hard to get on a team.All right, so I should just view this as some feel-good fantasy, yes?
But there were some scenes that were played for real: Gump's buddy in
the Vietnam war being fatally shot in the guts, his girl friend dying
of AIDS, his mother dying of cancer. Such mixtures of realism and
fantasy have never worked for me.Putting the above matters aside, there are more serious concerns. The
message of this movie, that being mentally challenged is only a minor
impediment to achieving great successes in life, is objectionable. How
are parents dealing with the real problems that mentally challenged
children have in this world supposed to react to this message? Or the
mentally challenged themselves? Or everybody else for that matter.I was highly offended by this movie.

******
14 July 2006
2
A fairy tale expression of recent American history. This has Tom Hanks
playing a simpleton as the embodiment post-war America and the fact it
won Oscars tells us more about American pop-culture than any erudite
books might wish to say.Tom Hanks plays Gump, a rather "slow" boy who grows into a "slow" man
and yet manages to involve himself in major events in American history:
racial integration, Vietnam, Watergate and so on, and yet always
manages to remain unwittingly on the side of Liberalism.In other words, this rather saccharine and somewhat nauseous film is
trying tell us that what is good about America is the simple homespun
values of innocence and goodness whilst presumably anyone with an IQ of
above average is not to fully trusted. A naive message in the least
which to anyone with an IQ over 100 or anyone living in Europe seems
the cause of so many problems rather than the solution.If you are looking for a black and white view of the world, an
idealistic and simple and sop for conscience view of the world, then
this might help.For those with an IQ over 100 I would suggest you go elsewhere.

******
11 April 2003
3

I was one of those people who had heard all the hype about Forrest Gump and
then saw the movie. This movie is too overrated. Yes Tom Hanks pulls off a
great performance as this character and it is pretty much a great history
lesson, but I dont think it deserved all the awards and acclaim it received.
In all I think only Tom Hanks deserved the award for best actor. We all know
it's very hard to pull off a performance like that. Look at Sean Penn in I
Am Sam....terrible. I wont go into what it's about cause we all know it. I
know there are many out there who feel this was a great movie and I wont
argue with you, you are all entitled to your opinion. To me I thought Pulp
Fiction should have gotten it all that year. It had a lot of things Forrest
Gump didnt. But yes there were things Gump had that Pulp Fiction didn't.


******
1 June 2001
5

Well, leaving aside the sad memories this movie brings me - which don't have
anything to do with my overall point of view, I would like to express how
annoying Forrest Gump results to me. Tom Hanks is an excellent actor (I
don't doubt it), but despite that I hate the movie. Not the soundtrack,
which is one of the best, being Almost Famous the obvious
exception.Not to offend most of people here (Whose lion' share is from the US), but
this movie seems made only for them. Forrest Gump shouldn't have been
premiered in the rest of the world.
I don't think most of the audience outside the States certainly liked it,
though it was a smash everywhere. More probably they went to see it because
the word had been out that they had to.I ussually like US movies, but not the silly and patriotic like Forrest
Gump. It's an annoying and stupid film whose subject matter is that in the
US even a dumb bloke like him may hit the big time.Five out of ten, and that's being too fair.

******
8 May 2001
6

I have a difficult time watching (and reviewing) `Forrest Gump'.  Despite
the brilliance of its actors, of director Robert Zemeckis, and of certain
powerful scenes, I find that the overall film itself is a cynical lie.  On
the surface, `Gump' is a cheerful film about the perseverance of its
genuinely sweet title character.  Under that sweetness, though is a
disturbing, uncomfortable message that says daring to dream is a bad
idea.For the seven people who haven't seen `Forrest Gump', the film deals with
the travels and troubles of one Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), an affable man
with an IQ of 75 who manages to bounce around key historical events from
1950 onward in `Zelig'-like fashion.  Forrest inadvertently teaches Elvis to
swivel his hips.  Forest accidentally becomes a football star.  Forest
accidentally becomes a Vietnam war hero, then accidentally becomes a
successful businessman.  (See a pattern?)  Throughout all his travels and
misadventures, Forrest is forced to deal with adversity and hardship  and
he can never seem to fully capture the love of his childhood sweetheart
Jenny (Robin Wright-Penn)  but through sheer niceness and through blind
faith in the goodness of others, Forrest invariably manages to push on
through his difficulties and to triumph in life.Again, on the surface, a sweet, glowing, feel-good film.  Despite my own
misgivings about the film, there's no doubt that Tom Hanks is simply awesome
as Gump  he clearly deserved the Oscar he won for the role. He gives
Forrest Gump a childlike innocence, but there's more to it that that;
there's a certain confidence that he exudes at all the right times, as well
as insecurities at his low moments.  Forrest Gump is certainly far more
complex than the simple figure he appears to be at first glance, and I can't
think of any actor who could've played it better than Hanks.  Robin
Wright-Penn is perfect as Jenny, who makes an astonishing journey through
the years between wide-eyed to hardened cynicism to the acceptance and
understanding of experience.  I'm surprised she wasn't nominated for an
Oscar as well.  Gary Sinise makes a perfect counterpoint to Gump in the
Vietnam era as Lieutenant Dan, another person who can't seem to travel
through life quite as smoothly as Forrest does.  Combine this with a
superbly paced film, with moments both funny and sorrowful (often at the
same time), as well as some of the best, subtle uses of CGI effects ever put
to celluloid, and `Forrest Gump' should be one of the best films of all
time.  Right?In my opinion, no.  `Gump' is a bitter, bitter movie.  Look at Jenny's
dreams and aspirations, how hard she works to attain them, and how little
she actually accomplishes.  Ditto the dreams of Lieutenant Dan, or Gump's
friend Bubba (Mykelti Williamson).  For them, their hopes never ultimately
amount to anything, not without the `accidental' help of Forrest Gump,
anyway.  Forrest, who has no ambitions, and never shows any true interest in
doing anything, becomes wildly successful by doing nothing.  In essence,
those who dare to dream in `Forrest Gump' are punished for their ambition,
while those who do nothing are handsomely rewarded.  Considering that some
of Jenny's dreams (and Lieutenant Dan's) are particularly selfish  in fact,
a few are downright noble  I found this little understated message to be
incredibly disturbing.  It bothered me enough to make me not like this film
at all, despite all the wonderful moments it does contain.`Forrest Gump' gets an overall grade of a C+ -- it starts out as an `A', but
its dark underlying cynicism drags it back down to that level.  But hey, I
could be wrong.  It's simply the Mad Reviewer's opinion.  Good or bad,
there's some great performances, and it's also thought-provoking.  Watch it
for yourself, and let me know what you think. 


******
18 January 2002
7
...but nothing much to the rest of us. And since the rest of us are many
many more we can't be all that wrong. 'Big' in comparison is like a
milestone in the history of film-making. I mean think about it. 'I wish i
were BIG!'. Inspiring. Universal. Forrest Gump on the other hand is despite
the budget a mediocre film about an entire nation catching their reflection
in the mirror. And staying there forever in awe of themselves. Wish to be
small again.

******
15 December 2008
1
This movie has nothing to offer film-goers apart from pollyannic
melodrama. Not one emotion or character has any depth or believability.
I scanned the list of other efforts by this director and found nothing
of merit there either. I've offered more words than this drivel
deserves but this site requires 10 lines of text. I will fulfill the
minimum. This movie has nothing to offer film-goers apart from
pollyannic melodrama. Not one emotion or character has any depth or
believability. I scanned the list of other efforts by this director and
found nothing of merit there either. I've offered more words than this
drivel deserves but this site requires 10 lines of text. I will fulfill
the minimum.

******
5 November 1998
1
For those of us who do not subscribe to the conservative, Mom's Apple Pie,
American Dream twaddle that this film propagates (i.e. Most of the World)
then this film is patronising and annoying at best, insidious and offensive
at worst. Lets look at the main messages in this film shall
we:1) Even if you are a simpleton, don't worry. Tow the line, do as you're
told, don't question  war, injustice, corruption, exploitation etc and
America will reward you. Remember, if you do want to say anything of worth,
make sure the microphone isn't working.
2) Question authority and you will die of AIDS (but lets not mention
Homo***uality)All in all a propaganda movie mourning the passing of the 1950's Anglo-White
Middle Class America whose myth died with Eisenhower. "Life is Like a Box of
Chocolates"? No I don't think it is really is it?. And as for one reviewer
comparing it to Schindler's List - you should be ashamed of yourself. I
wonder how Forrest would have danced around the Holocaust? Probably thinks
it's a caramel cup.

******
19 October 2003
10

Tom Hanks is incredible in such an inspiration movie. Do not see this
movie
from the wrong angle. Never questioned the reality of this movie. Get the
message from this movie. They're a lots! No overrated. This is quality
imaginable movie that inspires people around the world.
This is the fact that this movie is 4 and a half out of
5!

******
18 October 2002
2

Only saved from all-time worst status by a good soundtrack and Tom Hanks'
best effort to turn a truly awful character into someone vaguely
palatable.This movie is an insult to the audience, its own subject matter and to
anyone operating on something higher than basic brain stem
function.Oh, look at the funny retard - he's a moron but he has a simple wisdom
that
can redeem us all.  Fortune cookies are sophisticated when compared to
the
message of this film.  Ugh.It is a sad commentary on the Academy's milquetoast voting standards that
Gump is not the worst film to ever win a Best Picture award.

******
30 June 2002
2
Make a movie about a retard, or play one. Look at Hoffman in "Rainman"
or Miles in "Ryan's Daughter", they won Oscars for playing retards too.
You can't go wrong with a stupid person as the focus, sort of like the
chimp lead. Better yet, endow him with all sorts of savant-like talents
like superhuman strength and sports agility. What silly, contrived
hokum. This is a sentimental piece of schlock that is always simple and
forced. "Life is like a box of chocolates", yeah, right! The only one
who deserved the Oscar lost, Gary Sinise. Finally, use cgi to work the
retard into all the key TV/pop culture moments, guaranteed to melt a
boomer's heart. Have him influence the whole world with his simple
homespun Gomer Pyle platitudes. If the director had another 10 minutes
to fill, Gump would have redesigned the Apollo space ship program and
got the astronauts to the Moon. Enough sugar here to rot our whole
country's teeth. It proves that pop culture really sucks. "Pulp
Fiction" was it's dark Oscar nominated rival in 1994. It was a better
movie with a sicker message so it lost to this treacle,

******
22 March 2001
1

I remember the first three times that I watched this movie, I really
enjoyed
it.  Then I watched it with a classroom full of students and noticed when
everyone was laughing.  Everyone was laughing at the same joke over and
over
again.  Hey look, it's a retard doing retarded things; let's laugh at him.
Oh, and to make people not feel guilty about it we'll make Forrest's life
materially comfortable.  That this movie won oscars is an affront to the
shreds of decency that the Oscars have.  That this movie was passed off as
touching is wrong.  I loved Dumb and Dumber, and I see why I am not
offended
by it:  it does not feign depth or decency.  Robert Zemeckis and Tom Hanks
may have fooled us in 1994, but it's 7 years later, and still people don't
see this movie for what it is.

******
28 December 2005
1
I hated this movie. When it came out and I actually went around saying
that people thought I was odd or maybe alien to this planet. But I
thought it was the most manipulative, unrealistic, piece of tripe I
ever saw. Nothing that happens to Forrest would happen in reality and
don't tell me it's a parable, because I don't even think it works on
that level. The truth is if I was sitting on a bench with Forrest and
he started to tell me his life story, I would get up and leave because
strangers who behave that way make me uncomfortable and many people
would admit this if they were honest enough to get over the emotional
aspects of the story. Jenny was a tramp who didn't love him and slept
around and didn't deserve that slavish devotion. And the line "Life is
like a box of chocolates; you never know what you're going to get" not
only makes "love means never having to say you're sorry" look profound,
but it's untrue to boot. Whitman samplers publish the contents on the
inside of the box. So, shoot me. I thought this movie appealed to the
worst sentimental instincts of the human race and I resented being
asked to go along with it.

******
2 January 2002
1

This must be one of the most offensive movies ever made and I am truly
appalled at the central theme, namely that being stupid makes you a better
person.  Everything about this film is patronising and overwrought.  Can't
believe that Tom Hanks (surely the most over-rated actor on the planet)
won
an Oscar for this pulp and if this was the best film of 1994 then god help
us all.Don't waste your money at the video store - rent something (anything)
other
than this garbage.

******
1 April 1999
1

I can understand how this anti-counterculture propaganda piece was popular
with right-wingers, but how on Earth it managed to receive any Award
recognition is beyond me.  The faults are too numerous to mention, but
here
are a few.  The length: The film teeters on endlessly, adding no new
insights to an extremely limited title character who is much less than a
"tabula rasa".  The "message":  What exactly is the point of this film?
To
glorify Stupidity, and I am NOT speaking of "simpleness" as I have often
heard when discussing this disaster on celluloid.  The message seems
clear,
if you are a thinking human being, like the Robin Wright character, you
are
destined to suffer through such horrors as prostitution and AIDS.  A
stripper/folksinger?  Please.  Lovely special effects aside, this
meandering
piece of treacle is not only boring, but offensive.  The dumbing down of
America is clearly alive in this debacle of the cinema.

******
27 October 2015
1
So, I Was in the cinemas while watching this pile of human Sh*t Cun*,
and this bloke gave aids, so know i am going to daily, rip negs 2054.
Why doesn't Home and Away bring in a new gay character? I mean, come
on, in this day and age what is the problem? Even back in 1988 it
wouldn't have been that big of a deal. I know they have had gay
characters before, without all the kissing and stuff, which I guess
they thought was fine. It's not fine that they can hide a subject like
this. It is ridiculous and homophobic. The Charlie and Joey storyline
in 2009 was definitely what the show needed. They deemed this as
"inappropriate"? What about all the drugs, murders, rapes, guns,
violence and teen pregnancy? Neighbours, a show that I would never watch, gets to have gay
characters and it is only G rated. Home and Away is PG and deals with
more adult themes and they can't do this? I just don't understand. This point is that this is 2015, gay people exist - even in Summer Bay.
Home and Away is not a kids show, it never was. I'm not saying to turn
the show into Wentworth, just make it that more realistic. They should
make more use of the PG rating, just like shows such as Packed to the
Rafters did.

******
13 July 2014
2
I like Tom Hanks, love Robin Wright and absolutely hate this film. It
is saccharine sweet and for those who don't know, saccharine is
artificial and poisonous. Of course there are worse extremely low
budget films out there but they do not exercise the same over blown
Hollywood pretensions as Gump. I simply can find nothing redeeming
about this "film". The story, the premise, the characters and the
acting are all awful. Hanks is stiff and unconvincing, Wright is
unlikable and unconvincing, the story is ridiculous and unconvincing
and the underlying message is idiotic and unconvincing. I say dump
Gump. Yuck!!!

******
6 September 2012
4
Aside from the truths about the human condition and how Forrest was
able to overcome his difficulties with his "realistic" way of looking
at the world, I find the way the author weaves in Forrest into the
historical events of the times ingenious. And particularly
serendipitous is Forrest's remark on Lieut. Dan's decision to invest
their funds in a fruit company --> Apple Computer, which at the time
the movie was released was going for around $6 (split adjusted), and is
currently around $670 (as well as getting to be the biggest US corp by
value). Forrest can afford to cut all the lawns in America for free
now!

******
30 September 2011
10
Simply . Each time watch the movie it changes my look to life ..
Brilliant movie in every single scene .. sometimes it makes you cry
sometimes it makes you laugh .. sometimes it gives you hope ..
sometimes it makes you feel that you are alive .. The Direction was as
simple as excellent .. Tom Hanks gives his lifetime performance .. The
story is so real and so catchy .. It worth to be the best of the best
.. In summary it worth each single second watching it .. If you watch
it you must like it and when you like it you must love it and when you
love it it will change you and will change your look to the life and
even can change your whole life .. It's not just a movie to watch ..
It's piece of art you must admire and you must love ..

******
10 August 2010
10
This movie has to be rated one of the best movies, if not the best of
all time. All this talk saying it's overrated is nonsense. If it was
overrated how did it take the Oscar from 'The Shawshank Redemption'.
Tom Hanks is amazing in this film, as is Sally Field. Forrest Gump is a
man with (i'd guess) an intellectual disability. Forrest witnesses many
famous events and achieves remarkable stuff. It shows that even if you
are not the brightest crayon in the box, you still have a future. Gary
Sinise plays remarkably well in the role of Lt. Dan. "Run, Forrest!,
Run!" is a very famous phrase, and yes, Forrest is a very fast runner.
Some scenes may be intense to some viewers, but this film must go down
as one of the very best films of all time. 10 out of ten from me.
Highly recommend.

******
8 July 2010
6
This movie had its humorous moments, but with that came way to many
sappy scenes and suffice to say I did not love this movie. Nothing I
hated, but nothing I try to watch when I see it on the television
either. The story revolves around the character of the title Forrest
Gump of course. It basically goes through different parts of his life
and shows how a very simple man led a rather astonishing life. A rather
unrealistic life filled with a bit to much melodrama for my tastes. I
can see why others like this movie, but once again just not really my
type of movie. Tom Hanks is good in the lead role and I also thought
Gary Sinese was good in his role too, however I did not care for the
character of Jenny as she just ticked me off to no end. The film is
also better in some places than other as the film really has a rather
disjointed feel to it. It goes from here to there and is not hard to
follow at times though it just feels like a patchwork movie. The
Vietnam portion of the film to me was the highlight, here the comedy
was good and even the drama worked too. Other sections of the film at
times just felt to underdeveloped. Here is Forrest entering college,
now he is done two minutes later, here is Forrest playing ping pong,
now he is back Washington D.C. at a black panther party. Like I said it
has its moments, but for me it was a bit to all over the place like
they tried to get everything that was in the book up on screen. And as
short as some of this segments were you then have a rather lengthy
scene of just him running, though that one was rather good even though
it was simple. I will never see how this film beat out "True Lies" for
the best special effects Oscar, I was not overly impressed with the
scenes Forrest was inserted in as it simply looked like they animated
the mouths of those he was supposed to be meeting and they sort of
stuck him in there using file footage of John F. Kennedy for example. I
just thought it was just a bit better technique used than that of a
Steve Martin film "Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid". Overall it was okay, but
just not going to be in my personal top 100 movies of all time.

******
23 July 2009
7
Hi I Know a lot of people will bash me no matter what i say but I guess
thats just the internet.I finally got to see this movie for the first
time recently and thought i'd give my 2 cents.well to say that the
movie is epic that would be an understatement.spanning some 25 to 30
years how forrest was "supposedly"part of these major historical
events.now to the meat of the review.I have been waitig to see this in
Hd for a while (the reason I held out)and finally was given the
oprotunnity.(just thought I'd throw that in)The movie is at times
masterfully directed,acted,and wrote giving its spot in the top
250,other times it is not for 1 the ending feels forced as though eric
roth could not think of the proper ending and was very frustated and
just gave it the"B" ending.Robert zemmeckis forever gets a pass for
Roger Rabbit.but gotta say he way overused the whole "forest narrates
something someone said,then said character says word in said
situation"at first you really feel as though your watching a master at
work later it feels gimmmicky.Tom Hanks is the only not at total fault
he does what he needs to do.Don't know about an Oscar but at least a
nod.Now to what I was gonna to say.Im from a very small town smack dab
in the center of Alabama Pop 2500 nearest city 15000.This movie is
NOTHING Like Alabama its actually almost offensive.we do not talk like
that,it does not look like that,it is not that.Thanks p.s actually my
favorite of the movie is the editing very seamless and subtle no wonder
it got the Oscar

******
14 March 2009
10
My husband and I have seen this movie at least 20 times and each time
we see or hear something we missed before. It is the most heart warming
movie with many lessons of life. A child starting out with a handicap
that in those days he was remarkable in his handling of it. He was not
low functioning though he could have been if not for family and then on
to all of his experiences that he entered so innocently. The showing of
all of the times from discrimination to the "flower children and
Vietnam" was amazing and quite a history lesson. The warmth and humor
in the movie was so tastefully done and the acting of all the major
characters were superb. We need more movies like it and how it displays
that people can be different and still contribute to this world in a
big way. My husband will keep right on watching this movie if not on TV
we will watch our own DVD. Thank you Forrest Gump. Life is like a box
of chocolates you never know what you're gonna get.

******
14 March 2009
10
This is one of those evergreen movies that you never get sick and tired
after watching it several times. This movie is about a very less than
ordinary man who does more than ordinary things in his life, his name
is Forrest Gump. Forrest is a man filled with innocence living in a not
so innocent world. He goes through life like everyone else but
achieving great things that most normal man can only think of dreaming.He went through college by being in the college football team and met
the president while doing that. He serve the military and got a medal
for his bravery in the war. He got into the the American ping pong team
and become the first foreigner to ever set foot in China after so many
years. He survived the hurricane and got to become a millionaire by
selling the scrimps he caught and he ran for 3 years and gave
inspiration to a few people along the way without realizing it. All the
things he achieved in life is redundant to him because the only thing
that matter to him is a girl name Jenny, the love of his life.For those of you who have not watched this movie, I don't know what you
have been doing the past few years because this is a movie that no one
should miss.

******
1 March 2009
10
That's a kind of movie that we are only supposed to say: perfect, after
watching it. Tom Hanks is on his best role ever, the story keep your
eyes through the whole movie at the screen, Gary Sinise does a quite
good job and everything is good too. And what is worse: you want to
watch it again and again and again...Plus, you learn a lot about shrimp (hilarious) . Robert Zemeckis made a
story that if you read for the first time you'll think it's another
boring story of simply a man and his weird history, away beyond that.
It's about of everyone life. It a review of us, human beings on Earth.
It's complex and simple at the same time.Oh my god, simply perfect. What else can I say?

******
26 February 2009
10
Forrest Gump, the 1994 movie from director Robert Zemeckis, is a film
that appeals to the masses. From the most avid movie goers to those who
haven't seen a movie in who-knows-how-long, there is something in it
that everyone can enjoy. This movie features both a brilliant
soundtrack that appeals to many different music lovers and stunning
special effects that catch the eye and boggle the brain. It has been
highly critically acclaimed, winning many awards in several categories.
It's also very easily accessible to everyone.One of the things that really stands out about Forrest Gump is the
all-star soundtrack. The Movie's score features music from such artists
as Elvis Presley, Bob Dylan, Creedence Clearwater Revival, Jimi
Hendrix, The Doors, Lynard Skynard, The Doobie Brothers and Fleetwood
Mac, just to name a few. The music in this movie does a great job
setting the mood and the tone for the time period it portrays and the
major events that take place in the story. The soundtrack has heavily
influenced several movies in the years since it was released. Its
impact was so large that many movies with similar themes and historical
timeframes have almost copied the soundtrack entirely. The film even
won the Oscar for "Best Music, Original Score" in 1995. With a
soundtrack like that, it doesn't even need to be watched  you can
enjoy the movie with your ears alone.Those who do happen to keep their eyes open for the show are never
disappointed by the special effects. The storyline of the movie
wouldn't be able to survive without the menagerie of CG and makeup that
fits every aspect of the story like a glove. The CG managed to place
Forrest in several highly unlikely circumstances with ease, and made
the audience believe he was actually there. Through the use of this
then-innovative technology, Forrest ends up in such places as meeting
John Lennon on Captain Kangaroo, conversing with both Kennedy and
Nixon, witnessing the first black students allowed on a white college
campus, and running from an explosion in Vietnam that narrowly misses
him. The makeup transforms Gary Sinise (Lt. Dan Taylor) into an
amputee, and brings Sally Fields (Mrs. Gump) through time from young
mother to old woman. Even for a movie made 15 years ago, these special
effects have managed to survive the test of time and still look
believable.While we are on the subject of special effects, it has to be mentioned
that Forrest Gump won the Oscar for "Best Effects, Visual Effects", as
well. In fact, the movie managed to win several awards. It won a total
of six Oscars, and was nominated for seven more. Among the movie's
other Oscar wins were: Best Actor in a Leading Role (Tom Hanks), Best
Director (Robert Zemeckis), Best Film Editing, Best Picture, and Best
Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium. The movie
also managed to grab up an amazing thirty-two additional awards from
other awards shows. These awards were well deserved, but not surprising
considering the well-known cast and crew, not to mention the brilliant
writing and editing. This was not the first award-winning movie for
director Robert Zemeckis, who directed Roger Rabbit and Back to the
Future, two other films well-known for their brilliant innovation and
special effects.If anyone out there still hasn't been convinced to see this movie,
there is one more excellent reason to do so: accessibility. Because
Forrest Gump has been so critically acclaimed, and due to the fact that
it came out so long ago, a person often doesn't have to spend a dime or
even leave their house to see it. It's very easy to catch on TV  in
fact, it will be on HBO at 7PM on Friday, February 27th. For those who
don't want to wait for it to come to them, it is very easily found in
your family's movie collections, sold at almost any store that sells
movies, or should be readily available at your local rental location.
It's also very cheap. It's been known to hit the five-dollar bin at
Wal-Marts across the US, and is seen at almost every garage or yard
sale. This isn't a movie that you'll ever see sold out, either. Most
movie buffs have already seen it, so it's never too in-demand to be
able to find.Forrest Gump is a movie that just has to be seen. Between the
soundtrack and special effects, everyone can find something to enjoy.
Just look at the awards success the movie has had  that alone has to
be a clue as to how brilliant it is. If that's not enough, you really
can't lose if you take a gamble and watch it on TV. You can rest
assured, there's not going to be anything better on.

******
24 January 2009
9
Some people call the movie unrealistic or exploitative in using a
character with mental disability for entertainment. I agree with it and
still say its a damn entertaining movie. I am not American so the
historical placement(of Gump) isn't really as important for me as the
movie and its message(If they really did intent it) is. Except of
course Forrest giving the opening verse of 'imagine' to John Lennon and
giving Elvis dance tips.Now that i have the major issues with the movies out of the way. I'll
try to explain why i like the movie. I can say this in one word
"escapism". Yes, for me this movie is ~3 hours of unadulterated
fantasy( although i am not much a fan of the fantasy genre and FG
doesn't figure as a fantasy flick.) I have watched this movie several
times and each time i love it even more.This a movie that is based on the script and the acting rather than on
strong characters. The character of Forrest is simple enough, although
Tom Hanks does bring him to life much convincingly and colorfully. The
story for me is about how an obviously slow, simple and unassuming guy
influences the life of so many people around with his spirit and his
faith in humanity. How Forrest's childlike perspective of the world
lets him ask the questions that we all would love to ask but don't
dare, out of fear of appearance. Call me a sissy but i enjoy a bit of
emotion and the soft stuff. I couldn't help but feel all the raw and
pure emotions(unadulterated by biases) that Forrest felt when he goes
through all that he goes through; War, peace, love, heartbreak. There's
action, drama, romance and comedy. i cant think of any movie that
touches on this many genres and pulls it off as well as this one.Like i said before this movie is based on the story and innocence of
Forrest than about the characters. But still the characters like jenny,
Lieutenant Dan and Mama are brought to life wonderfully by a great
cast. Gary Sinise especially was great and deserved to win an Oscar for
his role. One other thing that stands out is the music. Such classic
songs such as the "sweet home Alabama' 'free bird'are featured with
great timing. I've never seen any movie that has the right songs for
the situations as this one. And the song 'Turn Turn'by The Byrds seems
like it was written just for this movie, although it was recorded in
1965. Although this is my favorite movie i have some gripes with it. I think
the ending(or the last half hour) was a bit bland and depressing. I
Really didn't appreciate the movie going form flash-back to the
present. And I couldn't but help thinking about the movie "i am Sam". I
was imagining Forrest junior having to go through everything that
Dakota Fanning goes through in that movie. I cant figure out how they
could have made it any different. But still, its the reason i give it a
9.

******
7 January 2009
10
This is the best film of 94 and this is huge considering that this year
were made The Shawshank Redemption (the actual #1 on the IMDb's list)
and Pulp Fiction, and they're both great movies but this one is the
greatest of all.Tom Hanks delivers another great performance as Forrest Gump, his
performance is nothing but magic, he truly deserved the Oscar for it.But the best of the film for me isn't Hanks performance but the script,
the script is truly great I think there isn't one flaw in it.And the film has very beautiful and funny scenes as well. I suggest it
to everyone.This is one of the greatest movies ever made! 10/10

******
5 January 2009
10
I watched this movie with my father. I watched this movie at 5 years
old. I went from 3 years old to gymnastics school. And when watch a
movie, father said ''Look even if you the study is not possible very
much if you run, you can go to the university.'' It continued being
called a joke. I was still small believed the wards I went high school
of sports and went to the university on recommendation. There is a
thing good by means if you live hard even if you are fool. Now that I
became a woman, I understood this word. This movie is a very wonderful
movie. I watched repeat this movie. And Tom is very young. He is good
acting.

******
30 December 2008
10
Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump a man with not a very bright mind but who
accomplishes so much and meets so many important people, John Lennon,
John F. Kennedy, etc. Now the whole movies leaves me speechless, Tom
Hanks' acting is the best I've ever seen in my life and the way this
movie make you feel like Forrest could have been a part of American
history and the effect of him meeting so many important was just funny
and interesting. The scene when Forrest's mother dies, that will have
crying just like the Titanic did. The relationship between Forrest and
Jenny is so real you can feel it every time you see them together. It's
hard not feel emotional when it comes to this movie because of the
amazing work these people did on this movie that it will have you
crying every time you see this movie. If you have seen this movie hope
you liked it, and if you haven't, run to the nearest blockbuster and
buy the movie, then get ready for one of the best movie experience of
your life.

******
28 December 2008
10
It Is, Truly, hard to describe this amazing movie. I came into writing
this having a good Idea of what to say, but when I think about it I am
drawn to blank about what to say.Let's just say this, Forrest Gump is a brilliantly fantastic movie full
of non-stop laughs, very dramatic scenes, and a strong romance. It is
definitely one of the best movies out there and deserves to be credited
as such. Tom Hanks plays Forrest Amazingly well and shines in this
fantastic film.Recommended to Anyone who is not offended by some sexual content, mild
violence, and brief language.100/10

******
7 December 2008
10
i saw Forrest Gump when I was 11 (year 2000). I was in love with the
movie. The movie touched me deeply. The movie is one of the finest and
most beautiful movies EVER MADE. I recommend this movie.Its a
masterpiece.I t will be ever remembered............ For me its a dream
or may be more than a Dream.It deserves 10/10 ... perfect movie.. (I like Forest gum and Shawshank
Redemption equally. they both are in my favorite movies)if u see this flick i m sure u gonna love it, the movie contains all
kind of material... i just love the movie. After 2-3 years movie
ratings will be at 8.8-9.0 and may a place of 1.2 .3 ....

******
29 November 2008
6
Forrest Gump is a good movie. Tom Hanks is great in it, and the
storyline was great. But otherwise, it was loose. The story could've
flowed more in my opinion and the acting was okay. To me, Forrest Gump
wasn't anything special, just an okay movie I watched one day when I
was bored. Took up a lot of time. The story, like I said was pretty
good, but I wanted to see more; more accomplishments in this story. Tom
Hanks I thought was an excellent choice for the heroin. Yet, the movie
didn't catch onto to me, and it didn't really grab a real kind of
attention from me. And also, how does Forrest Gump beat Shawshank
Redemption in the Oscars? I still can't understand that.

******
21 October 2008
10
I think Forest Gump is an absolute excellent example of acting and
directing skills. The story can sometimes be far fetched, but Tom Hanks
plays the character in amazing fashion, this is by far my favourite
film, its a one in a million film. As a film it holds everything thats
needed, Emotions, romance, war, rights, drugs, and of course.... The
shrimping industry. I don't think i will ever see a film like this again, and i can watch
Gump over and over again, i literally know it word for word. For all those critics that hate this film, i really don't think they
know what they are talking about, and perhaps they had trouble
childhood maybe?I normally am a huge horror fan and my DVD case is full of horror
movies so it goes to show how much i rate this film, because its far
form a horror movie.Love the FIlm!

******
9 October 2008
10
Forrest Gump is one of those few movies that are so realistic and yet
one cannot help but watch with a sense of wonder and amazement each
time one sees it. It is the most heart touching movie I have ever seen
that has so much to teach you and so much inspiration locked within it.
Each time I see this movie, I slip into a different mood and the movie
never fails to move me. The movie is about a boy with an average IQ who
is taught by his mother only thing - to never let anyone tell him that
he is different and cannot do anything in life. And off he goes
pursuing his dreams with only a clean and pure heart and immense
sincere dedication as his tools. Tom Hanks is such a wonderful and a versatile actor. He has played so
many diversified roles and each of these roles, he has played with so
much finesse. It is hard to imagine what the movie could have been if
somebody else stepped in Tom Hanks' shoes and tried to play the role of
Forrest Gump. My suspicion is that the movie would have been a tragedy
had it not been for the beautiful portrayal of Forrest Gump that Tom
Hanks has done. The Oscar he won for the movie is well deserved. Forrest Gump starts off wonderfully and moves at its own pace. We are
gradually exposed to the simplicity and purity of its central
character. He demonstrates how the qualities of the strength of heart
and soul can win the game anytime over terrific brains. The movie has a
lesson to teach that all it takes is focus, determination and a clean
mind in order to conquer the world. And what is beautiful about the
movie is that it does not show something drastic and unbelievable. It
can very well be a tale that is happening right now in our own world. The movie is not all serious. It has a wonderfully portrayed and
rightly timed humor content. And no matter how many times you have seen
the movie, the dialogs still have their effect on you. Each time one
sees the movie he or she will smile when the movie wants you to smile
and will make you cry when it wants to make you cry. The most touching
aspect of the movie is the very character of Forrest Gump. He is
dedicated, sincere and very simple. He has no cynicism in him, no
jealousy and not a single trace of any negative emotion. The movie is
about his world, a world without jealousy, greed and full of purity. The music score is wonderful, so is the direction, so is the acting and
so is the photography. It is indeed hard for one to find anything wrong
with this movie at all. It is simply too neatly done and too
beautifully handled. I cannot think of one thing in this movie that
could have been done in a better way. It is a beautiful movie and
deserves all the praise it has been getting. It is destined to stay in
the list of best movies ever made perhaps forever. It is one of those
movies that one must watch before their time.

******
29 September 2008
7
In the reviews I read for this film I'm surprised no one has mentioned
the classic Being There (1979), Peter Sellers 2nd to last film, because
there are many similarities between the two, to some extent as
completely stealing from the film (they both are devoid of the racism
and greed around because them, etc.).Now with Robert Zemeckis, the man behind the Back to the Future trilogy
and Who Framed Roger Rabbit, you expect a great film, and Forrest Gump
is. But it does NOT deserve to be in the top 50. For instance, I find
very hard to believe that Forrest could be at so many important events
at such small period of time. Also if his legs are so strong wouldn't
his good balance keep his back from being so crooked (I'm no
chiropractor so it could be plausible). I also find it hard to believe
about Forrest's and Jenny's relationship, she only sees him when she's
in need. Now lets focus on the positives: special effects are awesome, you can
easily believe he is there. Tom Hanks does an excellent performance as
Forrest, which makes the special effects even more believable. So if
you have three hours to spare Forrest Gump is an excellent choice to
watch.

******
25 September 2008
10
Forrest Gump is full of triumph and heroism, that it is rightfully
placed with the classics. From overcoming his inability to walk, to
succeeding in life while playing with the cards he was dealt. This is
truly one beautiful and inspiring film.The acting, all around, is great. Tom Hanks's performance is one of the
top-5 of the decade (1990-1999), and Gary Sinise plays Lt. Dan with
such empowerment, sometimes we are conflicted on who to root for in the
long-run. Sally Field does a nice job as Forrest's mother, and Mykelti
Williamson (had to look his name up on IMDb) is very good as Bubba.The story is hilarious, endearing, inspiring, and a near-epic at times.
The laughs mainly come from Gump's incidents and dialogue, as well as
historical moments seen on the television or milestones in each decade
the film takes place. The moments in Vietnam are when the film reaches
near-epic status, as Zemeckis has us wandering around the jungles
listening to Gump's narration, when suddenly his troops come
under-fire. The scenes of war are shot tremendously well, especially
when Forrest shows his heroic side. As the story progresses, we see him
get reality check after reality check, developing his overall character
to the point where he still has a mentally-challenged mind, but with
experience and understanding many folk cannot come near to.Alan Silvestri's score is uplifting and very engaging. Quite arguably,
this is possibly Silvestri's best ever. I highly recommend this to any
one who likes orchestral music -- especially film scores.The writing by Eric Roth is spot-on; completely deserving of an
applause. Zemeckis's direction is grand, and this is the best film he's
ever done; far more depth and love than anything else, this film has a
lot of heart.Overall, this is the best picture of 1994, and will go down cinematic
history as a classic. I highly recommend Forrest Gump to fans of Tom
Hanks, people looking for an inspiring and hopeful film, and any one
who is just looking for a good time.

******
23 September 2008
10
A warning first. This is not a nice, friendly movie about a mentally
retarded man, it is not a feel-good movie. It is a deep, multi-layered
story about a man struggling to see the USA during some of its most
controversial and famous times. Forrest Gump is surrounded by drugs,
war, politics, love and labour. It is a strong-willed and ambitious
movie to tell a story in a complex way, and it succeeds in a way I
believe not even Tom Hanks or Robert Zemekis thought it would. It is a
film about ideas, about relationships and humanity, subject which many
modern films simply ignore.Forrest Gump tells the epic story of Forrest Gump, a man who sees the
world in an innocent, plain way. He is the glasses for many people who
have has their vision blurred by the complexity of life and politics
which surround them. Gump is unknowingly pure, and not only changes and
influences history, but tells a heart-warming yet strong life story.
Forrest Gump is therefore a long film , but the film holds out
attention for every frame. Gump is not only brilliantly played by Tom
Hanks, who has a very mature and complex take on his character, but has
an incredibly engaging plot and dialogue behind him. The script is like
a liquid, and rolls consistently off the tongue of each and every
character that adds to Gumps epic tale.A stunningly complex and engaging movie.

******
19 September 2008
9
Jenny and Forrest.......what can I say ... excellent movie. Great
entertainment. Tom Hanks like you have never seen him before. Sally
Field as his Mother ... as you have never imagined her before. It is
about determination and doing the RIGHT thing because it is RIGHT. It
is a very good movie..well produced and Tom was fantastic in it. If you
are the one in a Million who has NOT seen this movie ... It will be a
CLASSIC in twenty years...it already is. GREAT MOVIE, full of comedy
with some Drama through his life experiences. Just an all time favorite
movie of mine. Life is Like a Box of Chocolates, You never know what
your gonna get ! I couldn't have summed life up any better than Forrest
! Good thing about this movie IS...you KNOW you will get some wonderful
entertainment .. it is definite ! OH and Bubba's Shrinp ...did YOU know
there are over 500 ways to cook shrimp...Bubba names about 100 ....
hehe !

******
15 September 2008
8
Forrest Gump is a film that has a lot to live up to. Many people
consider this one of their favorite films. Plenty of critics put it
down as one the better films ever made. As someone picking it up for
the first time over ten years after it was made, I was apprehensive of
what to expect.Yet, just like the character, the film Forrest Gump is never
pretentious even from the very first minute. We meet Forrest sitting on
a bench waiting for a bus to come. Someone sits down next to him, and
Forrest begins to tell his life story. Simple, poignant, and
ridiculously funny is this tale of a man who accidentally finds his way
into every major event of his generation. Forrest changes the world in
unimaginable ways, but all he really wants is Jenny, his childhood
friend and the girl he's loved his entire life.Yet this simplicity is where the movie's strength comes in. Everything
is really very simple for a man whose IQ is no greater than 75. This
simplicity deceives us into taking a whimsical tale for granted, and
then surprises us with its incredibly moving final scenes. We don't
quite realize how wrapped up in Forrest's world we are until we find
ourselves in tears by the end. And when we leave Forrest's world, we
miss him very much. We miss his easiness and simple way of living. 8/10
stars! Jay Addison

******
12 September 2008
10
Life is full of mysteries; either live it momentarily or eternally.Just count the maximum number of people you will ever meet in your
lifetime. But you can only 'live' with 'one' of them. The rest are all
side-kicks you may not need all the time. But that 'one' person is all
that matters between living (running) and dying (trying to re-connect).Please do not interpret Forrest Gump as you do with other movies. This
movie shows an aspect of our lives dissected in the most meticulous way
that we ourselves might not be interested. But to watch it in the life
Forrest Gump is a wonder.Forrest Gump gives the view of the world that most people experience in
their lives but hardly speak about it."To him the world is stupid. To the world he is stupid" It is a simple
philosophy stretched into a movie that is well done.

******
4 September 2008
10
I first watched this film some years ago as a child growing up, as a
kid i didn't really understand the true nature of the film, i was far
to interested in the war scenes overall. its only years later that i
come to watch this film again...this film takes you on a ride, a ride
through another mans life, another mans point of view, and most of all
another mans innocence in a world so harsh and lack of understanding.
its a beautiful tale of love,happiness,heartache,war,death and also
chocolates...being a man myself, i didn't watch this the second time
with any caution what so ever, why would i need to ? well i wish i kept
my guard up because i find it impossible to not be reduced to tears
after such a movie, its the best few hours you will ever have when
watching a film, never disappointing always inspiring, i take my hat
off to a masterpiece.

******
1 September 2008
10
I remember when this film first came out back in the early 90's.
Forrest Gump who is not to bright became apart of one of the most
historic events in the world without him really realizing it. it
dramatic....its funny.... and such an inspirational film. I remember at
the end of this movie when it was still in theaters everybody started
clapping cheering getting out of there seats and clapping and cheering.
This film is a cult classic. One of tom hanks biggest acting roles that
made his career. Sally fields had an amazing acting role as being
forest gumps mom. This Film will go down to one of the most greatest
films that ever came out

******
1 September 2008
10
I first saw this at the cinema when it was first released. It was
wonderful then and only seems to get better with time. Such a lovely
film that changes you forever, and can teach everyone something. Whilst the plot is extraordinary and cover so many things that Forest
does in his lifetime, it is somehow completely believable they way its
presented; you find yourself thinking about history and the topics
covered during the film and still a few days after.Tom Hanks' best performance and wonderful supporting cast too. Great
Music Soundtrack - Although a big winner I still feel this film didn't
win nearly enough Academy Awards. another truly magical film from
Robert Zemeckis. I hate people who lick director ass, but this dude
Zemeckis has an amazing talent to really put you there and make you
feel it by tapping into your childlike emotions and senses. Like in
Castaway or Back to the Future, always something anyone can watch and
feel in one way or another.The kind of film that comes along a few times in a whole lifetime, I
feel it is underrated if anything,; as I guess these days, liking
something lovely and heart-warming is no longer cool.This film will still be considered superb long after titles like The
Matrix and Spiderman/Batman films are being laughed at. Makes everyone
laugh & cry, the sort of film that you want to show your kids one day.

******
30 July 2008
10
This is one of the greatest movies of all time. The humor is great, Tom
Hanks is great, the backgrounds are great and everything else is great.But the best thing about movie is the lesson it gives us. It is a movie
about humans and humanity, how we complicate things, how we always see
the bad things instead of the good things, how we always care about
what other peoples think of us, how our selfishness only make us
unhappy and how all this things make us unable to move forward.The main character is a contrast to humanity. Forrest is seen by
everyone as stupid, but his uncomplicated mind makes his life
uncomplicated as well. Forrest is like a feather(naive) that blows with
the wind and do not let complication hold him back. He just follows
some doctrines that his mother thought him, originally taken from the
bible probably. This tells us something about religion, we always
complicate the bible and seeks something that is impossible to find, or
we question the doctrines and the stories. If we just followed the ten
commandments without questioning it, everything would be perfect.The movie also tells the American history between 1960 and 1990, but in
a original and deep way. How the Nam-war and the war against
communism(or any other war) was a complication created because humans
seek a perfection we never can get. We see how the hippies try to seek
perfection true drugs, and others also trying to find an answer trough
different ways. But the only one that can live a free life is Forrest.Forrest Gump is a masterpiece with many important lessons to learn.
10/10 for maybe the best movie ever made.

******
21 July 2008
10
I'd chose this movie the "other number one" on my top, not because the
Schindler List be better, only because I've already considered
Schindler the best movie I have ever seen when I saw Forrest Gump.I'm not sure of how can I talk about how much I'd lean by watching this
movie. This one was an inspiration to all my family, starring with my
dad, that was the one who told me to sit up and watch it with him. The
only thing I can say with out fear to mistake is that this is one of
the few movies that I can sit and watch over and over and over and over
again. I can easily say that I watch it over 100 times in the 2001.Its
right now that I realize the hard work and the magnitude of the
production of a movie like this.The Tom Hanks performance is the heart of the success of this movie. He
create one of the most charming characters on the history. He lived the
horrors that many suffer in that years tanks to the American ambition
and trough is eyes everything looks just fine. Through his eyes
everything seems so beautiful. The way Forrest live his life his kinda
lesson to my own life.The movie itself is a wonder creation. This is the kind of Beautiful
films that deserve the Best Picture Oscar and deserve to be remembered.
The conflict between Forrest and Schindler will continue. Till then, I
have two number one.Thats it.

******
19 July 2008
8
Forrest Gump was there at every momentous occasion in American history
during his lifetime. But he never realizes this. He just walks through
them like an evening stroll in the park. But as I watched his life go
by, he tugged at my heart like very few film characters have.When Forrest Gump meets his son, the first thing he wants to know is
whether his son is smart. It is 'the' moment of the film and almost
moved me to tears. It is shattering to realize that Forrest all along
knows what everybody thought of him. At once, we see the courageous
person that he is behind his mild demeanor.Tom Hanks plays the role of his lifetime. He is just perfect. I cannot
imagine anybody else as Forrest Gump.I have seem Forrest Gump about five times till now. The film only grows
on me every time I see it. A great film.

******
10 July 2008
10
Excellent film. The History of the simple person, with extraordinary
open and fair soul understands each it on the. This person does not
pursue something in a life, it is internally self-sufficient. One
speak, that such people it is possible to use instead of nails, they
are strong and hardy. And in a life we do not understand them, but film
opens, all the parties of soul Forrest, its external calmness and an
internal pressure, self-criticism. Its absolutely trustful attitude to
people seems an attribute? The fool?, and all can not so? It Can the
world has gone mad, and hurricane has incurred minds of people. Which
now money has put above, than the person? Where, simple human concept?
To trust? - turns to something improbable and naive. It can only a
Utopia, but it is a Utopia for us, it seems to us, what we know all and
consequently behavior Forrest seems to us ridiculous? And can we turn
in Onegin? Both we look down on the world and we do not notice that at
us above a head? After film it would be desirable to be pulled out for
city, and for a while to forget household problems.

******
8 July 2008
10
Forrest Gump is one of the most amazing movies I've ever seen. Yes, the
events are highly improbable, but that only makes the movie more
memorable. I can't help but smile when I think about Forrest
accomplishing all those things that, individually, would be the
pinnacle of any normal person's life.The haters on this site need to calm down. FG isn't bashing on
education or intelligence or anti-war thinking (it does the opposite,
imo) or independent thinking (Jenny struggled b/c she was abused as a
child, not b/c she was a rebel). Fact is, education and intelligence
don't guarantee happiness or success. Forrest is compassionate,
hard-working and is surrounded by people who care very much for his
wellbeing. That ultimately, is the more valuable than any degree or IQ
score. Sounds very true to me.

******
11 June 2008
10
just kidding. i love this movie. i mean, it makes me cry every time i
see it.Robert Zemeckis has never been better as a director. Tom Hanks has
never been better as an actor. the screenplay by Eric Roth absolutely
sparkles with imagination. i tried reading the novel by Winston Groom
once and couldn't handle it. i thought it was pretty awful compared to
the writing of the film.a multi-generational film, it is an interesting take on the "American
Dream" as we have come to know it in the past half century of American
history. though 1994's Pulp Fiction is probably the better film of the
two, Forrest Gump is clearly more charming and thus an undeniably
worthy winner of that year's Oscar for Best Picture.it's a known fact that the only people who don't like this movie are
Osama bin Laden, Captain Hook, Cruella DeVil, and Sauron.

******
12 May 2008
10
Forrest Gump (1994) ****Forrest Gump is the sappiest of melodramas, but it is also a
wonderfully made and wonderfully touching film. Everyone of course
knows the plot of the film, so I won't bother discussing that. Robert
Zemeckis' talents as a special effects filmmaker are astounding, and
the effects in Forrest Gump are no less than incredible. Such as the
scenes in which he meets a number of presidents in archival footage,
and his address of a peace rally in Washington. The film seems to have
either a love it or hate it following. What surprises me most though is
the extreme hate and overreading that some people have regarding the
film. Some critics have claimed that the film is "mawkishly
conservative," and triumphs the idea that ignorance is bliss. The
biggest shame is that the film has been politicized - it is not
political, it is human. I am inclined to agree with Roger Ebert and
Gene Siskel's interpretation in suggesting that the movie is about how
America has never come to terms with its historical past, and is not
about neglecting things such as the Vietnam war. It is not about
following rules, or suggesting that if you're a hippie you will become
a drug addict or anything like that. The movie is simply about the
journey that life is. To politicize the film is to present an element
to the film which was never there to begin with. Forrest Gump is simply a story about humanity. I've never understood
the "ignorance is bliss" comments. The film has nothing to do with
that. Like the politicization of the film, so too is this an element
brought in by critics which was never part of the film. The picture is
about the reaffirmation of life. Forrest Gump is not a smart man, but
just because he is not smart does not mean that he cannot succeed in
life. This is a problem that i have with many liberal academics, and I
say this as a left wing academic myself, wherein uneducated or
unintellectual people are regarded as failures and placed on a pedestal
far lower than they place themselves upon. One does not need to be
intelligent to be enlightened, and enlightenment is not an intrinsic
characteristic of intelligence. Forrest Gump is a magical and touching
human dramedy. Take it for what it is, and what it is is a much smarter
film than people give it credit for. Its a wonderful movie, and its
shame that its been politicized because of its historical odysseys.

******
12 May 2008
10
What can't be said about this movie? It contains all the ingredients to
what life is all about in 2+ hours of film. A simple, loyal, courageous
man who, although thought to be slow by others, saw very clearly what
is right and what's wrong, while those around him struggled with the
concept and scoughed "Oh, he just doesn't get it because he's slow." He
got it alright; Forrest was a pure person in pure form. Everyone should
be so lucky. Saving his fellow man during war time, saving his friend
from drowning, never, ever giving up on the one true love of his life,
and being an amazing father... he was all this and so much more.The music and scenery in the film of course, were simply staggering.
What a beautiful movie with a beautiful message.Along with Shawshank redemption, Forrest Gump these are my two favorite
movies of all time. No other movie comes close.-Tracy Milburn

******
12 May 2008
10
You don't need anything but a simple character, a nice story and the
ability to make it happen to touch people's deepest feelings. Yet that
simple, Forrest Gump is loving, tender, just perfect.My father always told me about how much beautiful The Sound of Music
(1965) was to him, in his early childhood. I guess Forrest Gump is just
like that to me, even being a feature not played in my childhood, but
in my adolescence, just that period in time we're confused by all
emotions blooming.Every time I feel desperate or needing to revigorate my live, it's time
for watching again Forrest Gump.

******
8 May 2008
9
Tom Hanks (Saving Private Ryan) stars as Forrest Gump, a man who sits
on a bench and recalls his life story, growing up with many
difficulties and challenges.Hanks gives possibly the best performance of his career as the troubled
man with many issues in his life. Definitely an Oscar winning
performance with brilliant timing, execution, humour and seriousness
all brilliantly established by the cast away star.The plot is brilliantly character driven with a strong focus upon
serious issues and how Gump deals with them such as his intelligence,
his independence and relationship with other people. The issues are
beautifully dealt with and shown with such a strong emotion, especially
towards the end which is a very dramatic moment in the film and one of
the saddest moments in film history I believe.A film is always strong if it gives width and depth to other characters
as well and the emotion behind Lt Dan's (Gary Sinise) story is
remarkable and a powerful signifier of realism and honour in army life.
Gump's best friend in the army Bubba (Mykelti Williamson) also has a
story to tell about his upbringing and the honour and tradition of his
family's shrimp business. Jenny (Robin Wright Penn) also has a dramatic
and emotional life and has many issues to contend with and her story is
one of the most intriguing for me.The plot is consistent with strong realism and a powerful meaning
behind each issue.The film is well recognized as a comedy drama and through the issues
covers drama and with the memorable quotes comes a great combination of
the two genres. From "Life is like a box of chocolates" to "stupid is
as stupid does" Zemeckis' film proves successful on all levels.The direction and settings are brilliant, especially during the running
scenes. The whole ideology of ping pong was brilliant as was the film
in general and one of the best comedy dramas of the 90's if not of all
time.

******
4 May 2008
10
I remember I first saw this movie back when I was 8 or 9 years old, on
a T.V. broadcasting, after a cousin of mine told me off for having not
seen the film yet... I just found the film by random, you know, just
zapping... and then... Oh gee!...I probably couldn't stop crying that
evening...****(Watch out!; spoilers coming. Don't read the following if you
haven's seen the film yet)********************* I mean, who can help
crying when watching the scene when Forrest meets Jenny for the first
time in the school bus? or when all of his relatives die?
*************(spoilers ended keep reading if you want)****************And the soundtrack is just... The background theme in the sad scenes,
is just... I mean, your life ends when you listen it... I'm 19 years
old now, and (I might be wrong), but this movie remains as the best
film I've ever seen. Well, lets conclude; if you haven't seen this
movie; go rent it now. Period.

******
27 April 2008
8
Life is like a box of chocolates - you never know which one you are
going to get. I love this movie. I love it. I love it. I love it. The
acting is superb. Tom Hanks is excellent and so is Robin-Wright Penn.
The story is great and heartwarming. I cry every time I see that last
scene with the feather and also when Forrest cries over the grave. You
would have to be crazy not to like this movie. Everything about it is
great. It has its tender moments. Its funny moment and everything in
between. I praise the director and the screenwriter. The dialogue and
cinematography in this movie are excellent and so is the score. The
final scene with the feather is one of the best in movie history. If
you have not seen this movie you have not been born yet!

******
12 April 2008
10
Forrest Gump (Hanks) is short on IQ points but long on heart, a pure
and simple soul who follows a straight path through the world, ever
true to the homely advice of his mother (Field) - the source of guiding
Gumpisms such as "Stupid is as stupid does" - and to his elusive
lifelong love Jenny (Wright). He begins his serendipitous skirmishes
with destiny in childhood by unconsciously giving ideas to the
as-yet-unknown Elvis Presley, and goes on to become, unintentionally, a
football star and war hero.Considering all its mush and meandering, this is among the best
audience pleasers ever. Hanks outdoes himself in the lovable dolt
department with unforgettable, utterly disarming work. Just as he
recaptured boyishness in Big without resorting to cuteness, here he
brilliantly portrays slowness and dumb doggedness without being
patronising. Admittedly, the film does have its flaws but despite this,
it is simply unmissable and one of my all time favourite films.

******
10 April 2008
8
"Forrest Gump" certainly has to be one of the most heart touching and
emotional films that brought joys to the masses over the years. People
misjudge it though as a film about a dumb retarded boy named Forrest,
yet I see it as a much different take as it proves it's okay to be
different and slow and do things at your own pace and let things come
to you and then good things will happen in life. Tom Hanks is great as
Forrest Gump as the film spans a life period from Forrest's childhood
to his growing up, starting with his humble start in a small Alabama
town with his mother(wonderfully done by Sally Field). From the start
Forrest was different as his mother taught him to see the world and
life as a box of chocolates, not knowing what your ever gonna get. Yet
by the hardships and for the way that Forrest was made fun of his
determination and will would spark him on a life of unexpected but
deserved greatness. From his college attending at the university of
Alabama to his football playing to fighting in war, and making new
friends to meeting the presidents! Also touching is his heartfelt
relationship with life love Jenny(Robin Wright Penn). The direction and
camera work and special effects of the way the film is crafted by
Robert Zemeckis is brilliant and fabulous it makes the film move well
from time period to time period. Most of all this film brings the
message to me that destiny is often a piece of crap and life many times
just goes and happens at random. Most of all it's okay to be different
and it proves no matter how different that just by being simple many
things can be accomplished, and that with faith and determination with
god anything is possible. "Forrest Gump" is such a memorable winner
because he did it his way.

******
2 April 2008
9
Forrest Gump is a film that I could watch over and over again and still
be moved, entertained, and inspired. It is the story of a simple man
that inexplicably becomes embroiled in extraordinary events. It is a
tale of remarkable coincidences and great emotional loss.Hanks is at his cinematic best here, creating a highly believable
character that one cannot help but love, despite his flaws. And how
about the supporting actors! Gary Sinise is brilliant as the often
reluctant friend to Gump. Robin Wright perfectly captures the love
interest that is a close yet very different person than Gump. Sally
Field is likable and endearing as the mother with boundless love for
her only child.The story is never boring, with events flowing seamlessly. There is a
story telling angle here with a narrative overlay is unique and serves
to accentuate major plot points. Most characters are recurring parts of
Gump's life, and they come and go throughout the film.Perhaps the most inspirational part of the film is the character of
Gump himself. Although simple, he has an astounding realization of
right and wrong, yet remains non-judgemental to those around him. He
suffers great emotional loss at several points throughout the film, yet
remains strong and carries on because he knows that he still has
obligations and that there are others whom might depend upon him in
some way.I have few criticisms about the movie. There were a few times where
Hanks slipped out of character a bit and reminded me more of his
typical comedic personality, but they were few and far between. I'm
striving to think of more, but I just can't come up with any.Forrest Gump truly is an inspiring, heartwarming story that will
undoubteldy stand the test of time. It has a wide appeal, but this is
well deserved. Enjoy with my recommendations.

******
1 April 2008
10
I really believe that this is a fantastic film!! This is an example
when you get wonderful film making and a wonderful cast! This
absolutely has to be one of the best films of the last two decades.
Forrest Gump had a lot of glory in its own right as Tom Hanks played
the character perfectly. There are so many memorable lines in this
film, and so many great scenes. This story goes along perfectly as well
as its cast. Again this film was made by an awesome director Robert
Zemeckis who has made many great films. Hanks really does the job right
as Gump who really struggles through live, but his girlfriend was right
there to support him. All the best to the actors, and everyone involved
in this film as it did so well in its own right.It really amazes me that for three years this film had totally ruled
the box office up until 1997. It was then in 97 when Titantic came out.
After Titanic came out it was shattering records within only a few
days. Forrest Gump which had made the most money like ever at the box
office with over 300 billion dollars!!! Titanic at the end of its time
shattered that by hitting over 600 billion dollars!!! As both movies
are amazing in their own rights, Forrest Gump looks like nothing when
you see how much Titanic raised. Honestly I would watch this film any
day, as I really could care less about Titanic. How both these films
did so well is awesome because they have great stories to them and they
consist of well known actors who fit their roles perfectly. The
directors and production crews do a superb job overall. As we all know
these movies take so long to make, but it is so worth the time and the
money.Forrest Gump is a great film and there's no reason why it didn't win
awards. Also, its here enlisted in the 250 films list. We can all see
why this is such a great film to have in your collection. Say what you
want, but I just can't believe that Titanic brought so much more money
in. Its hard for me to see why titanic literally 'pulled' in so much
more than this great film. There are reasons why any of these films are
so great. Thanks. Give me comments.

******
22 March 2008
10
The tag line says it all: "The world will never be the same once you've
seen it through the eyes of Forrest Gump." I certainly cannot see the
world the same after watching such a brilliant movie. I learned a lot
about people, life, and the world. How many times can you say a film
has done that for you? The truth is, there is a little Forrest Gump in
all of us. Being able to see a character that represents everyone as
they learn their place in the world is an amazing concept.I've always been a fan of Robert Zemeckis, and Tom Hanks delivers a
stunning performance once again. This one is a must see. Watch it, and
you'll learn something about yourself.

******
16 March 2008
10
I won't try to write any summary of this film as others here have done
this far better than I can.This is without doubt one of the most moving films I have ever seen. I
know that may not mean the same to someone else. I am not ashamed to
say this, but as I sit and write this now, there is a tear running down
my cheek but being in a public place right now, am trying not to let it
take over ! Just thinking of the scenes, the music, gets to me in a way
that other films have not. The storyline and the acting, especially Tom
Hanks, refreshes me and has me wishing for the meek and gentle to
inherit the Earth. In the past, a handful of films could do this to
me:- one is Wonderful Life, another is The Killing Fields and you may
laugh here - Mr Magoo's Christmas Carol !!! Forrest Gump is more than a
film experience, it's a lesson in life and humility. I'm not very
religious, so maybe I have seen in this film the equivalent of a
parable.I don't know what caused this film to be so magical - it just is.

******
23 February 2008
10
Great combination of excellent direction and powerful performance. Very
nostalgic movie. Tom hanks at his best, with less and few words. Has an
important lesson's how life is so damn simple and we make it
complicated. How very simple thinking can be very disturbing yet
enriching. How simple it is to love and to be loved. How u can do
everything and gain nothing but do nothing and gain every thin. Teaches
u the importance of running in life, running from running towards,
running to put the past behind and towards the future.--------
------------ ----------- --------- --------- -------- -------
---------- ---------- ---------- ----------- ---------- -------- ------
--------- -------------- -------- --------- ---------- ---------
------- -------- ------- ----- ------- -------- ------- -------- -----
?????? ???????? ?????? ???????? ??????? ???????? ???????? ?????///
????????// !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!
!!!!!!!!!! SO run for life and cheer up the moral of the story...

******
4 February 2008
10
I was reading some critics of people that didn't like this movie and i
thought how could someone in this world not enjoy a film like this? its
true thats very long and sometimes slow but tom hanks manages to keep
you interested the whole film. Forrest Gump is a character we would all
like to become, someone innocent that cant understand why things happen
around him. Why he can walk, why the girl e loves cant love him back or
is always running away form him, why his best friend died in war or why
the character of gary siniese cant enjoy his life. Until the end of the
film he cant even understand if we make up or destiny or its written
for us. This is a beautiful movie with many things to tell. The
character i liked the most after forrest was jenny, she never knew what
she wanted and she was escaping from happiness into a world that only
wanted to deprave her living aside the only man that really loved her
in a pure and sincere way. This is other important fact of the 60s as
it describes the history of the USA in that time seen by the eyes of a
man that wanted to make everyone happy and live in his own Innocent
world away from wars, racism, drugs and problems the society faced back
then. He is just one of the characters of a movie you never forget and
teach you so much about life and yourself at the same time. I think it
could be describe as one of forrest phrases "life is like a box of
chocolates. you never know which one you're gonna get"

******
17 January 2008
10
Tom Hanks portrays Forrest Gump, a simple-minded but charming man who
hails from the town of Greenbow, Alabama. Through the eyes of Forrest
Gump, we look at various moments throughout history, including a
realistic Vietnam War re-creation and a rather amusing one that refers
to the Watergate scandal.Sally Field plays his loving mother, and Robin Wright plays Jenny...the
girl he met as a boy and thinks about constantly no matter the
situation. Gary Sinise is Lt. Dan Taylor, who Forrest meets in Vietnam
and forms a relationship as the film progresses.A great cast is led by a terrific director, Robert Zemeckis. A tad
longer than it should be, but still a great film! It proves that you
don't have to be smart to find success in life...or even LIVE it.

******
3 January 2008
10
The relationship between Forrest and Jenny strikes a cord with me
because it is a relationship between a guy who feels inadequate and the
girl of his dreams. Unfortunately for most guys, that first girl he
falls for is often not in love with him. She likes him, but does not
love him. In that situation, most guys feel inadequate, unable to feel
worthy of that girl and yet are unwilling to just let it go. Forrest
loves Jenny. He tries to prove that to her and do the best he can with
what he has got. This is a story about that search for love and
approval. A story where guys can identify with that search, put
themselves in Forrest's place, and long to be with Jenny. Along the
way, Forrest passes through the history of America from the 50's on to
the 90's and plays a part in that history.

******
16 December 2007
10
great movie,and regarding Jennie Curran?she just was "way too ill/messed up psychologically"to realize it
emotionally after being raped molested by men/her own step dad or birth
dad,so sad.and i do hate they kill her off.but love forest bury her and
they can visit her whenever they like to and talk to her on the house
land loll and that was so sweet to me. just sad it took her so LONG TO
FIND HER TRUE SOULMATE WHEN HE WAS THERE ALL ALONG READI TO GIVE "JENNY
THE WORLD" forest really did love her and i think he was best for her
but of course she was not seeing what was in FRONT of her this whole
time because of her own drinking wild lifestyle and crazy self in the
beginning but i am happy in the end she died peacefully with her son
and her husband and best friend forest. a great film i watched it again
tonight on the history channel with mi amigo.

******
14 October 2007
7
My family and I have seen Forrest Gump at least 15-20 times (I'm
guessing here) and we think it is a pretty good movie. Sure, there are
some things that we don't like about the movie, such as some
adult-related scenes and the language use (especially the g-word being
used over and over). I mean, I personally would have rated Forrest Gump
a 9, maybe a 10, if it weren't for all the profanity. Other than that
little (okay! big) problem, the movie's great! Except for a few sad
parts, the movie's funny. My sister and I like to quote Forrest Gump (a
good movie is as a good movie does-LOL!!!), and the movie is supposed
to take place in Alabama (my home!). If you think this is the worst
movie on the planet, you better think twice. This is one of the
greatest movies of all time (besides the language). I think in the next
several years, Forrest Gump will be a classic...awesome movie!!!!!!!!!!

******
8 October 2007
8
I enjoy Tom Hank's film (Philadephia). He adds a certain touch to the
films that others do not bring. I have always enjoyed Forrest Gump and
it's one of my favorite films of all times.The film is about a man named Forrest Gump a man who is not the
sharpest knife in the draw tells various people about his life, and the
historical events that he lived though, along with the famous people he
meets.The script itself is very well written and the actors and actresses
seem very real and very likable. The only thing I was not fairly happy
for was that Forrest was able to see famous events in history
(Watergate, etc.) Overall I consider this one of my favorite films of
all times. When I feel I need to watch a good film, this is one of
them. If you have not seen this film then either rent it, buy it, or
watch it on TV since it seems to be on quite often.

******
18 November 2006
10
This movie was easily the best of 1994 - though there wasn't much
competition, this film managed to make a hell of a lot of cash and win
6 Oscars - an achievement which no comedy film has done since. This is
Tom Hanks's greatest hour - it shows that he is versatile, skilled, and
cares very much about his roles. Forrest Gump himself was a nice guy -
but not in a nice world, and this earned him a lot of ridicule and
humiliation on the way. But it is good to see how he deals with this,
and to see life through the eyes of a lesser-intelligent person is
something that makes this film truly special.It is hard to say that Jenny really eludes Forrest - she is always
coming back for him, and sent him a load of letters when he was in
Vietnam. Their friendship is touching and meaningful - but Forrest
doesn't realise that she has wasted her life by taking drugs and
partying hard, which shows just how naive he really is. But it is this
that makes Forrest Gump itself.The Vietnam War sequence was pretty intense - though it wasn't a
contender for the likes of Saving Private Ryan, it managed to capture
the fights pretty well, but mainly the heroism of some men who wanted
to save other's lives. I felt very sorry for Forrest when Bubba died,
and it tells us that every soldier has ambitions and a planned future,
but some of those men will never be able to live those futures.The film's main premise is integrating Forrest into history - this is
the best part of the film. Realistic archive footage has had Forrest
placed in it, and it soon makes you wonder whether he was a real
person. Things like the phrase "Sh*t happens" and the running
phenomenon that swept America in the 80s - was it Forrest who inspired
all of these things? Of course, the answer is no, but the screenwriter
has done a spiffing job leaving us to ruminate over these things.This film does contain some absolutely monumental images - such as
Forrest breaking off his leg braces and running free. Every character
is different - Lt. Dan was my least favourite. When Forrest was trying
to be friendly to him, why did he elude him and make him regret his
actions? Why did he shout at Forrest for saving his life? It makes you
wonder. This film contains some important messages - one of them being
that everyone's got a story to tell.On the whole - Forrest Gump is an absolutely great film. Before you
watch it, treat this film like a box of chocolates - because you don't
know what you're gonna get. And that is what Forrest Gump tells us
about life. Spiffing. 10/10

******
22 October 2006
10
so seriously- I do not rate movies leniently. Though having said this,
I have just gone and given my first 10 rating. However Forrest Gump is
truly deserving of such a high rating as not only does it clarify the
situation of life and the speed at which it moves- it also keeps you
enchanted throughout. Man seriously this movie is the kinda film you
can watch alone, with your friends, family or special love; the effect
will always be magical. From beginning to end this film is pure class,
with great acting contributions mixed with a truly special storyline!
So you can imagine the result is one of the greatest films of all time-
well worth the watch. Okay if you haven't seen this film..........watch
it!!!

******
22 October 2006
10
what an amazing movie to knock the minds of those who get satisfied by
the well known Hollywood gimmicks which includes devastating graphics
and supernatural stories... When i sat to watch this movie i never
thought that its going to take me to a different world , the world of
forrest gump. Special credits to the writer for some wonderful dialoges
that pierces the heart of every viewer. its very hard to express by
words the life of Forrest Gump but thats the significance of that movie
that makes it so special. A simple movie to speak about the life of a
normal man attaining different characters at different stages but one
of the best movies to entertain you. i would suggest all to make this
movie as a prominent one in their DVD library. "life is like a box of
chocolates you never know what you will get next" thats right the movie
is an extraordinary example for these words.

******
14 October 2006
10
When the movie opens, you think it is just a regular movie. When Tom
Hanks transforms into Forrest when he talks, you know the movie will be
one of the best movies you have ever seen. The way the writers and
director shape the way Forrest is and his encounters with JFK, John
Lennon, Elvis, and LBJ, President Nixon, Watergate, and many other
things. He does not know the significance on how good or important it
is because he does not know how to comprehend it. That is the genius of
the movie. To have a character who does not know his own significance
in the since the writers put it is simply brilliant. The relationship
between him and Bubba and Lt. Dan stand out and show how true
friendship is supposed to be. The three endure hard times at Vietnam as
Bubba dies, and Lt. loses his legs and Forrest wounded from battle. The
most interesting relationship on the movie has to be between Forrest
and Jenny. Forrest and Jenny are child hood friends and the
relationship grows when Forrest has deeper feelings for Jenny. The
feelings are not returned from Jenny because she thought Forrest
deserved better than her. The relationship is one of the main topics in
the movie that will hit you. The movie is really on one man's
relationships with so many people in over a twenty year span. It also
deals with trying to find self and true love. This is Tom Hanks best
role he ever played and one of the greatest performances ever in the
motion picture history. The characters are memorable and you will never
forget them.

******
13 October 2006
9
Lieutenant Dan: Have you found God yet, Gump?Forrest Gump: I didn't know I was supposed to be looking for him. --------------------------------I'm not the religious type. But I couldn't help notice the large amount
of New Testament references in FORREST GUMP (which I assume are in the
book as well). (BTW, I posted an earlier version of this to a certain
progressive website, in case anyone here reads widely.)Consider: 1) Forrest was born of an earthly mother, with no indication
of who his father was.2) He became a fisherman at some point in the movie. But considering
the sea's ability to rehabilitate Lt. Dan, and Forest's ability to
attain Lt. Dan's loyalty, I'd consider Forrest to also be a "fisher of
men".3) Remember when Forrest ran and ran across the country for 3 YEARS,
collecting followers along the way? Not unlike a certain religious
figure.4) And when he was doing all of that running, Forrest performed various
"miracles". Like inventing the smiley-face logo, and the phrase "s--t
happens".5) SPOILER HERE.. By the date on her tombstone, Forrest's wife Jenny
was in her early 30s when she died. Since Forrest was about the same
age, we can assume he was 30 when he did his "preaching". (Strangely,
Jennny - akin to Mary the Magdalene - is the one with the initials "JC"
(for "Jenny Curran" according to trusty IMDb). Perhaps Dan Brown didn't
quite have it right about the history of women in the early Church.)Of course, this movie is not at all "preachy", as the quote above
attests to. Forrest sort of stumbles upon his situations, but he always
dutifully (and sometimes cluelessly) steps up when called. The
conveyance of that innocence is what really makes the movie.

******
26 September 2006
10
I only bought this film the other day and I only think i'd watched it
once before, but i'd honestly forgotten how great it is! For starters,
Tom Hanks is amazing as Forrest and I don't think anyone couldn't done
a better job! All of the main and supporting roles fit perfectly and I
wouldn't be able to pick out anyone I thought spoilt the overall film!
In my opinion this is a film for everyone because it has enough action,
romance, a humorous and serious side! I don't know many films that are
told in the way this one is (with the main character reading it like a
story book) but I think it works perfectly because it helps the viewer
feel the character of Forrest Gump! Such a strange character, yet
because of the way it's told you are able to get a little further
inside his head and see his perspective and what he's like! It's a
great story delivered in a superb way and deserves being one of the
true classics! At the price you can get this for now everyone should
have a copy of it! When the film's finished everyone ends up loving
Forrest Gump!

******
25 September 2006
10
From the first time I saw "Forrest Gump", it's been one of my favorite
movies. This is the first Tom Hanks movie I ever saw; he was great in
the lead role. I think I like everything about this movie. I like
watching the course of the little feather in the opening and ending
scenes; they picked a great score for those scenes. It's tough for me
to pick a favorite scene, but I laugh every time the news reporter on
Forrest's run yells, "Whoa, Man, you just ran through a big pile of dog
s---!" and Forrest replies, "It happens." If I could rate this movie a
'100' out of '10', I would. This movie's a real tearjerker in places.
When you watch it, make sure you have a large box of tissues nearby.

******
24 September 2006
10
The craftsmanship in this movie is not that it has a good message, it's
that it tells a good story and the good messages keep coming. These
messages are so universal, it would be difficult to find someone who
can watch this film without shedding a tear.Forrest Gump is a none-too-bright Southerner whose positive attitude,
uncomplicated life, and honest application of hard work yield for him a
soap-opera-like chain of incredible success. Instead of achieving one
historically significant and newsworthy goal, he achieves every major
definition of success in Western Culture, except for the one he wants:
the love of "his girl", Jenny. While he is off winning high honors,
getting photographed on both television and magazines, Jenny leads the
life of The Prodigal; boozing it up and partying down. It's always
empty and disappointing to her.For all his colossal successes, Forrest himself winds up unsure of
himself because he knows he his not smart. The mutual dissatisfactions
of incredible success and incredible failure with no one to share it
with lead the two back together for a familiar friendship. An
interesting resolution to the story fulfills the "what's missing" in
each of their lives.Wall-to-wall solid performances. Tightly cut together. Incredible
special effects. Rich art direction for the 60's and 70's flashbacks.
Especially keep an eye out for all the TVs, the iconic talisman of the
film. Most appropriate/appreciated by 15 years old and up.

******
24 September 2006
10
Granted, the story in this film is fanciful, but the superlative
performances of the central actors quickly captivates the viewer. In
particular, the main character, Forrest Gump, was superbly portrayed by
Tom Hanks, who made the character credible and endearing. Numerous
scenes were characterized by subtleties that were typical of the high
performance level. In particular was the scene in which the character
Forrest Gump learns that he fathered a son. The facial expressions and
body movements of Tom Hanks immediately conveyed the character's fears
that his son might also be retarded. It was a joy to watch such skill.
The scene in which his army buddy recites all the ways that shrimp
sandwiches can be made was genuinely funny.

******
17 September 2006
9
I think that this is without doubt one of the true classics in the
world of movies. This is an idealistic story of moral and compassion,
it teaches compassion to your loved ones, goodness and honesty. All of
this is presented by one boy growing up to be a successful man.
Successful not only in the meaning of financial success, but success in
life as well. When I think of the movie, I often think of Forrest not
as a man, like other characters in movies, but as an idea of life. A
pure sense of life created into a fantastic person.What I like the most about Forrest is that he has an unfailing ability
to do things right, on purpose or not, no matter what people might
think of him, or what outcome it could have been. Nothing is trivial to
him, nothing is too pointless for him to do something about, on the
other hand things like image and others opinion about him is not
remotely important to him. His in many ways childish behavior, gives
him a mystic touch of innocence. This pure way of life, makes us want
to be more like him, to be more caring about others, and makes us see
what we really should treasure in life. He contains great wisdom from
his mother, and his love for Jenny is pure, as well as his friendship
with Bubba and all of his friends even after they have all passed
on.Tom Hanks delivers an exceptional performance and deserves the Oscar
completely, he captures the nature of Forrest Gump amazingly and gives
this movie heart and soul. The other actors/actresses also makes
outstanding performances, Robin as Jenny touches us deeply with her
tragic story and her kindness, which walks hand ind hand with her
suffering. Gary Sinise is simply fantastic, I can not imagine Lt. Dan
as anyone else, he is simply hilarious and thoughtful at the same time(
By the way I have to give the special effects crew credit for their
work on his legs ). Basically every actor who appears on the screen
does an exceptional job. The director too uses every possible technique
to capture the moral and feelings on the screen, and the details keep
emerging for each time you see this movie. All in all a true
masterpiece providing comedy, drama, a bit of action and most of all a
pure sense of happiness and warmth. It makes you think about the big
questions of life, and you decide for yourself how to translate the
messages and symbols of this movie. For those of you who either did not
understand this movie or have not yet seen it , you should go and watch
or re-watch it as soon as possible. Enjoy, this is one of my all time
favorites. 9/10

******
3 September 2006
9
This film should have a rating of more than 8.3. In my opinion it
deserves almost a 9.0. Very few of the films I have ever seen can make
me weep like Forrest Gump. It also portrays the 1960s and 1970s for
what they are infamous for, hippies, peace, love, protest and war.
Forrest grows up a simple child but grows into a mature and loving
person. Hanks was ideal for this role. His childhood friend, "Jenny",
who he remained for most of his life, he loved, and sadly, she didn't
always treat him how she should've. Still to this day, I remember this
to be so realistic and I actually thought to myself, "why did she do
this to him?" Never before (or maybe ever again) has a film like
"Forrest Gump" made me think to myself and apply to a fictional film
such a realistic question. It's almost as if it actually took place.The bonds that two simple men had while in the military, Blue and
Forrest, was incredible. While neither of them were very smart, they
both were very kind and they formed a friendship that lasted until they
parted. I cried not only at that, but also at the death of Sally
Field's character and Jenny. No, I didn't cry once, but several times.We have a lot to learn from this film. Not only the horrors of war, but
also the importance of love and compassion. That's why I gave it a 9.
Bravo.

******
14 July 2006
8
This movie was pleasant to watch although as it progressed towards the
end it became more and more cheesy. Can Forrest Gump be a grotesque
caricature of the average ignorant and politically numb citizen that
sees history passing in front of his eyes without noticing it? Is the
country he lives in made for idiots? I liked the return from Vietnam
and the scenes with the lieutenant. I didn't like the philosophical
contemplations made by Gump as he becomes "wise" nor the way the movie
concludes with the unnecessary death of Jenny which leaves Forrest
raise his child that in turn doesn't seem to have any particular
problems with that. The heroics towards the end are also incredibly far
fetched. Overall it is a fun movie with some good moments but I
wouldn't take it too seriously.

******
3 June 2006
8
There was a Quebec poet-singer named Flix Leclerc who sang a song
which began with these words: "Moi, mes souliers ont beaucoup voyag".
In English, it means: "Me, my shoes have traveled a lot." So, just
watching the opening scenes from the movie, where the camera zooms on
Forrest's shoes, made me understand that Forrest Gump was that kind of
guy, too.In fact, Forrest's journey began right after the end of World War II
and it went on throughout all of the baby-boom generation events 'till
1982, where his childhood sweetheart, who became his wife, died of
AIDS.But what Forrest Gump never understood is that any single event of his
life would have been a lifelong dream for somebody else. Everyone on
Earth would die for a single sight of the President of the United
States. Well, Forrest personally met three of them (Kennedy, Johnson
and Nixon) and he never realized how lucky he was. And that's a single
element of his existence.Forrest Gump's character is played by Tom Hanks, a role which deserved
him the Best Actor Oscar for a second-straight year (he won for
"Philadelphia" in 1993). But it's very easy to understand. I think that
Hanks' performance is one of the most brilliant interpretations of any
kind in the history of cinema.Also brilliant are Gary Sinise and Robin Wright Penn, who play
respectively Lt. Dan Taylor (Forrest's superior in Vietnam) and Jenny
(the girl of whom Forrest has a crush on). While Forrest is a very
lucky guy, Taylor and Jenny are mostly down on their own luck. Taylor
lost his legs during the Vietnam war and after the war, he depended on
the government for living and became an alcoholic. Jenny had the bad
luck of having a cruel and abusive father and she met a lot of men who
weren't as tender as her childhood friend Forrest was. She even became
addicted to drugs during the hippie movement and she contemplated
suicide for a while.But it's Hanks' performance that really makes this movie a unique one.
Not only does Hanks put all of his skills into Forrest's
interpretation, helped by young Michael Conner Humphreys,but the script
is also a gem. It shows a character whose innocence is still a part of
him, like if he still was a child. Forrest's IQ is very low, but his
physical shape is great (especially in his legs) and he's led by his
heart, which is as big as his own Alabama estate.Visual effects are magnificent. It's one rare movie that features
state-of-the-art special effects in such a drama. Most of the time,
this kind of effects are featured in genres such as action, adventure,
fantasy or science fiction. I loved to see Gary Sinise without his legs
and the feather movement in the opening and the closing scenes. But the
most astonishing of all is the interaction between Forrest and famous
people, such as presidents Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon, and also Elvis
Presley and John Lennon.So, all in all, "Forrest Gump" is a unique movie. It's a great
historical drama, featuring one of the most recognizable characters
ever conceived and it's a very enjoyable showcase of one of the
greatest historical periods ever. It means that I perfectly understand
why did this movie win the Academy Award for Best Picture. However,
this award should have belonged to "Pulp Fiction"...

******
6 May 2006
10
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen. It is a very memorable
film for anyone. The plot is excellent, a young boy who has an I.Q. of
75 and braces on his legs ends up meeting a girl named Jinny. After
that he looses his braces and is able to run. After that he achieves a
lot of things that other people wouldn't be able to like be on the
All-American football team, receive a congressional medal of honor,run
a shrimping business,be on the All-American ping-pong team, and to top
it off he runs 15 times across America. The funny thing about it is
that all of these events happened by coincidence. This is a must see
film for everyone and you will fall in love with this when you see it
for the first time.

******
3 May 2006
10
Forrest Gump (1994): Starring Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright
Penn, Gary Sinise, Mykelti Williamson, Rebecca Williams, Michael Conner
Humphrey, Bob Penny, Jon Randall, Harold G. Herthum, Sam Anderson,
Director Robert Zemeckis, From The Novel By Winston Groom, Screenplay
By Eric Roth.Forrest Gump is a classic of 90's cinema. The screenplay by Eric Roth,
directly lifted from the novel by Winston Groom is greatly executed,
even if it reeks of Hollywood. This film was crying for an Oscar and it
shows, but for the most part, it is an emotionally-driven, powerful
film that captured the latter 20th century (50's, 60's, 70's, 80's) and
its turbulent events brilliantly. It was a huge success for Tom Hanks,
who epitomized the innocent but noble spirit of the protagonist in a
fine performance he is himself quite proud of as one of his greatest
cinematic roles. The rest of the cast bring their characters to vivid
life, making us feel for them as human beings. Sally Field is his
proud, dignified and strong single mother, who loves him despite his
mental retardation and instills self-esteem, morality and good values
in him which he honors well into adulthood. The relationship between
Forrest and his mother is a strong bond. Robin Wright Penn plays the
love of his life, Jenny, who as a childhood friend, protected him from
bullies, but whose life is full of darkness and damage. Abused by her
father as a child, aiming driftlessly in a world she finds meaningless,
she becomes caught up in the Hippie movement of the late 60's, even
making the pilmigrage to Woodstock and San Francisco, and later becomes
a disco-lover and drug addict during the 70's. She has one bad
relationship after another, attempts suicide, and even has Gump's son.
But she rejects his love, despite the fact he is the best man in her
life. Gary Sinise plays Lieutenant Dan, who fought in Vietnam along
with Forrest and with Bubba (Mykelti Williamson). Suffering the hell of
war, they lose their innocence and experience trauma, but Lt. Dan loses
his legs and cannot live a normal and happy life. Even so, he is
blessed by the loyal friendship of Forrest. Bubba dies and Forrest
inherits part of his lobster fortune, his yacht and increases in
wealth. The most memorable moments of this film, as everyone who saw it
in the 90's remembers, are the casual, accidental slices of history
that Forrest becomes part of, i.e. He shakes the hand of John F.
Kennedy prior to his assassination, witnesses the Watergate Hotel
intruders who worked for President Richard Nixon, creates the Happy
Face logo "Don't Worry, Be Happy", goes to Vietnam, etc. The movie has
a lot of heart, humor and delves into the tragic side of humanity.
Despite all the suffering Gump endures, despite his mental
deficiencies, his simplistic, happy-go-lucky, child-like attitude makes
him survive when others fall apart. This is a great movie.

******
21 April 2006
8
That does include the Vietnam War, the fight for civil rights, and the
Watergate Scandal. During his life he also meets the Elvis Presley,
John Lennon, President Kennedy, President Reagan and President Nixon.
The funny thing is that not at any time did Gump understand the
importance of the events he was witnessing. Jenny, Forrest's good child
hood friend, is there from times to times during the whole movie.
Forrest and Jenny are for a long period of time divided from each
others, because they are living so different lives. Even so, they both
eventually fall in love with each other. Gump is a quite simple man,
and does not seem to be worried about the fact that everyone obviously
is smarter than him, which I do believe he understands. I think the
main point in this movie is that happiness doesn't take intelligence or
money. It takes love, good values and achievements that are important
to you.Me myself enjoyed this movie very much. It is touching, entertaining
and educational at the same time. When I think about it later, the
whole story does not seem very likely. What is so amazing, is that I
did not think that thought one single time while I was watching the
movie. The acting, the dialogue, and the film-technical aspects are so
realistic and brilliant, that I completely felt like this was really
happening. I also love Hanks character, which is just as brilliant as
the rest of the movie. The next time you need motivation for living a
spotless, innocent and morally correct life, go watch this movie.

******
17 April 2006
10
This movie is endearing and fun to watch, but at the same time, it
makes you think. It is fresh and innovative, with just the right touch;
never too silly. Tom Hanks shines as Forrest Gump, giving the character
dignity that few could. Robin Wright Penn is perfect as his best
friend/love interest who is dealing with an abusive past. Sally Field
gives her usual solid performance as Forrest's patient and loving
mother.Forrest Gump is the kind of movie that really makes you think about how
you view the world around you, and, especially how you treat other
people. It never goes past sweet and touching into preachy.I thoroughly enjoyed this movie and it gets a perfect 10 from me!

******
13 April 2006
10
This movie was simply excellent. The acting was great(especially
TomHanks) the story was awesome, and the directing was superb. The way
Tom Hanks acted was truly worth his Oscar. Next to his role in The
green mile this is the best film he has made. This is just one of those
movies where you can sit down and enjoy! It has got everything: humor,
drama, adventure just great. Some here are saying that it is a blown up
mediocre movie, well if that is what you think you're just a dumbass
cause this is one of the best movies ever made. There is no accounting
on taste, but this movie is an exception :P I just can't stop saying
how much i enjoyed this movie! From now on this is one of my all-time
favorites!Perry

******
9 April 2006
10
This is another movie on my top 5 list. Forrest Gump is probably one of
the best movies ever made.When I was younger, I saw the preview of it somewhere, and thought it
would be boring. Then a few years later, it turned out I was wrong. I
saw the preview trailer once again, and then thought it might be really
enjoyable.I found the 2 Disc DVD at an appliance store, where they sell some
movies and games, etc. It was $3.99, so I bought it. After I was done
the movie, I was just simply amazed. I'm surprised it was only $3.99
and not perhaps $9.99.Rent this movie, you won't be disappointed.10 stars out of 10

******
3 April 2006
10
this is the greatest film of all time, i know all the words all the way
through, it is such a beautiful and emotional movie. i gets to me every
single time i watch it.tom hanks is the greatest actor i have ever seen, you really feel for
this guy, he never does anything stupid because he follows his heart
and always tries to do the right thing for the people he loves. that is
an important message we can all learn from in this modern age of war.this movie will change your life. buy and love itit is a great insight into the history of America, i myself being from
England find it ultimately attractive to watch American culture being
laid out and intertwined for are view pleasure.

******
1 April 2006
9
when i watched this movie the 2nd time around i found quite a few
hidden details which made the movie all the more enjoyable. like for
example something i noticed was that in the interview in which john
Lennon is also present, as Forrest talks about china, Lennon's
responses are the lyrics of his song 'imagine'. i thought that was
pretty cool. did anybody else notice that? well thats all i wanted to
say, but now have to continue to comply with the guidelines. so how
about talking about my favourite movies and stuff. i love to watch
movies. my favourites are life is beautiful, Forrest gump, snatch and
lock stock and 2 smoking barrels. i just saw he matrix for the 1st time
today and fell in love with it. i am really looking forward to seeing
shawshank redemption and hotel Rwanda.

******
28 March 2006
9
I hated this movie when I first saw it. I felt it was about my life. I
had to go out in the lobby during the Vietnam combat scene. Even though
I did not go to Nam, I was affected by it. Forrest goes from Elvis and
The Beatles to the disco era. He finds himself in Washington, D.C., the
ordinary man caught up in extraordinary circumstances. I later
developed an affection for Tom Hanks' character when I took my son to
D.C. We joked about Forrest's girl friend, Jenny, running through the
Reflecting Pool. The story ends with Jenny dying of AIDS. Seeing the
quintessential baby boomer life unfold was painful. Seeing Sally
Field's transition from a 70s babe to a maternal type was also
disconcerting.

******
10 September 2003
10

The best film I have seen so far!
There are no words
to describe this film
so just see it!

******
19 April 2002
9

Of course it's unbelievable! It's fictional! Fictional!Great acting and better writing. An accurate depiction of the turbulent
60's.A tremendous movie. 9/10

******
18 April 2002
10

This was one of my coolest experiences on a theater...this movie makes me
wanna cry almost every sigle time i see it (even now),,,,i've seen it
almost
50 times and always produces me the same reacction...that's why i gave it
10.....'coz that 's what i think an excelent movie should do......on the
fxs......god!!!!,,,it's so realistic that you really believe that his is
doinig,all that you see on the  screem is so trutfull tha you  bought
it,,,,it's a clasic and i think it should be upper on this
rank...

******
12 April 2002
10

I loved pretty much everything about this movie. I've seen it so many
times,
I can recite it word for word. I follow anything Tom Hanks does, simply
because he's brilliant and can become whatever he desires, a slow
Southerner, an astronaut, a hopeless romantic, a sneaky suburban, a police
detective...I love each and every one of his movies regardless how cheesy
(ie: Joe vs. the Volcano). But it wasn't just Tom that did it, Gary Sinise,
Robert Zemekis, Robin Wright, Sally Field, Mykelti Williamson...loved it
all.

******
28 May 2000
9

I know alot of people disliked this movie, but not me. This is my favorite
movie. Forrest Gump is the most wonderful character, he doesn't know hate,
racism, or the rat race around him. All he knows is that he loves two
women,
his mother and Jenny. Forrest never settles, he waits endlessly for his
true
love Jenny. I do admit that the scenes where he was running and the
creation
of the bumper stickers and the have a nice day t-shirts were far fetched
but
the rest were great.
No one could have played Forrest better than the one man who I respect
most in Hollywood,Hanks. Know matter how many times I watch this movie, I
will cry and cry. I remember the first time I saw it and watched little
Haley joe Osment, I leaned over and told my husband that little boy is
going
to be a star. I was right! I can watch this movie over and over and still
have that same feeling I did when I first saw it!

******
1 January 2000
10

This was a tour de force for Tom Hanks, he definitely deserved the Oscar
for
this one.  Gary Sinise was great as Lt. Dan.  This movie had everything,
comedy, tragedy, pathos, nostalgia and a history lesson, although somewhat
warped.  I would recommend it for anyone.  10 out of 10

******
18 December 1999
10

Who couldn't love Forrest Gump? A lovable "Local Idiot" ends up making
"more
money than Davy Crocket", and proves to everyone that "stupid is as stupid
does". This movie is my DAILY inspiration (literally, i think that i need a
new copy), and should be classified as a classic. Not only are the
characters lovable, but it's extremely well done also. Very creative and
very unique. And that's all i have to say about that.

******
10 December 1999
7

A truimph of special effects (Sinise's legs, Gump's appearances in history)
and with some wonderful vignettes this is not a "real movie" with a "real
plot". The film feels like, "and then I did this" and "then I did that" with no
regard to a plot or pacing. Also, the AIDS subplot seemed tacked on and
forced.All and all some great scenes, but not a great movie. But there are worse
things out there to watch.....I give it a 7.

******
9 December 1999
10

"Forrest Gump" Tom Hanks ( Sleepless in Seattle) is one of my favorite
characters in all the movies that I have ever seen. That covers a lot of
movies.  Every time I watch the movie,  I start talking like Forrest,
Forrest Gump. His transparency, his sincerity, his naivete, his sense of
commitment toward his friends is beyond what anyone could imagine. We
watched the movie again when we were visiting relatives for Thanksgiving.
Uncle Gene was cracking up. He is a WWII veteran.  He loved that line: "I
got a million dollars wound but so far I have not seen one cent of it!"
After two days of talking like Forrest, Forrest Gump,  my husband looked
at
me and said: "now you sound like Katharine Hepburn."
I think that one the reasons that I adore and understand Forrest is
because
he "lived" through my years as a young adult. The script is brilliant!
Clever, clever, clever!
The movie touches everyone. The older folks, because they lived through it
as adults; baby bloomers because they lived through it as young adults;
even
the kids in my neighborhood will scream: " run,  Forrest, run." Every time
they see someone running.
My favorite quote: Bubba Blue, Mykelti Williamson (Primary Colors) said:
"Anyway, like I was saying', shrimp is the fruit of the sea. You can
barbecue it, boil it, broil it, bake it, sautee it. Dey's uh,
shrimp-kabobs,
shrimp creole, shrimp gumbo. Pan fried, deep fried, stir-fried. There's
pineapple shrimp, lemon shrimp, coconut shrimp, pepper shrimp, shrimp
soup,
shrimp stew, shrimp salad, shrimp and potatoes, shrimp burger, shrimp
sandwich. That- that's about it.".
My favorite scenes: Forrest showing his buttocks to the President. When he
sees "Jeannie" (Message in the Bottle) in Washington, D.C., they meet at
the
pool of the ellipse. They were again briefly like peas and carrots!
Forrest
sees "Lieutenant Dan" Gary Senise (Apollo 13), he jumps into the ocean and
his boat crashes! The little feather that flies at the beginning and end
of
movie. The music is great!
This is one of the best movies ever made and that is all I have to say
about
that!

******
8 December 1999
10

Until this movie came around, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest was my
favourite.  For me, this movie showing up anywhere but in the top 10 is a
total travesty.  It offers everything that you could possibly ask for in a
movie.  Maybe realism and believability are in short supply, but if that's
what you're looking for then watch the news.  With this movie, one moment
you're laughing the next crying.  As with life, this movie is like a box
of
chocolates, you never know what you're going to get next. In my books, a
10
all the way!

******
3 December 1999
8

I don't know if this is really a huge spoiler, but I don't want to get
blacklisted.  Overall a great movie, but would someone please explain to me
why they made Forrest run around the earth(or wherever it was he was
running
to) for no apparent reason near the end?  As unplausible that it was that
he
would meet Elvis, Kennedy, Lennon, and company, I had no problem with those
scenes.  But then Forrest decides to run and then people follow him(I
wouldn't follow him, that's for sure) and then he just decides to stop?
Brilliant!  I mean, until then it was a 10/10 for me.  However, this is a
great film, and I still had to give it an 8/10.  (forgive me if you enjoyed
this part of the movie)

******
20 November 1999
10

This is a wonderful movie, unfairly maligned by a backlash. The critics
who
claimed that Forrest succeeds by always doing what he's told are
forgetting
(SPOILER) that he saves Lt. Dan and several other members of his platoon
precisely by defying Dan's orders. If only all schmaltz were this funny
and
heartfelt.

******
2 November 1999
10

forrest gump in my opinion is one of the greatest movies of all time. i
dont
know how it ended up at #175.  anyway, it had so much in it.  it could make
you laugh, cry, it had action in it, and it made you think in some parts.
it had an effect on a lot of people.  when i saw it in the theater, i would
look around after certain part, like the end where he is talking to his
dead
wife's grave, and there were so many people crying. thats why this movie
was
great, it touched a lot of people. it definetly deserved best picture of
the
year.  hanks also deserved best actor because that movie wouldn't have been
anything without him. he was perfect for the part.
10/10

******
31 October 1999
10

I've been wondering a thousand time if this movie is better than Gandhi
(1982). If so, it's the best movie I've ever seen! Anyway; while Gandhi is
a
movie you can learn a lot of & probably become a better human being,
Forrest
Gump is simply a great experience! I was crying the last half part of the
movie the first time I saw it & also the three times I've seen it since
then
I couldn't avoid crying! I think I'll never stop crying even if I'm seeing
it the 100. time! Tom Hanks became my favourite actor after this movie. I
hope the first present I'll give my child (when I get one) is a copy of
this
marvellous movie! I'm not a fan of American politic, neither American
culture, but this movie is genius! I've made my own homepage about this
film
- you'll find it at

******
13 September 1999
10

"Forrest Gump," Is probably the greatest movie of all time. And those who
don't like it, are missing out on one of the great movie experience of all
time. It's difficult to fathom someone not enjoying this wonderful film, for
it demands repeated viewings. My feeling is; some just over intellectualize
and forget about enjoying this simple, wonderful film. Or, maybe others have
heard too much about it, and it's a letdown. I find it hard to believe this
would be a letdown for any reason.I can't add much more to what other reviews have already said. Other than to
say; I'll never forget, in the theater, when Forrest is talking to jenny at
the grave.I took a moment to look around and, so many people were wiping
tears from their eyes. That's a story I hope to tell my kids 20 years from
now.

******
24 August 1999
10

To say Forrest Gump is a good movie is as a gross an understatement as one
could muster. The telling of the story through Forrest's eyes, the gradual
progression through his life, the remarkable circumstances that make up
that
life, all combine to make for one of the most enjoyable motion picture
experiences in the history of film.

******
12 August 1999
10

This movie is simply wonderful!  Tom Hanks gives an incredible performance
in this American history on video.  All supporting actors are well-cast.
I'm disappointed that it's not ranked higher in the Top
250.

******
23 July 1999
10

I wasn't born and raised in the U.S., and I loved this movie as an
involving, touching, yet sober view on three decades of American history.
I'm led to think that pure-breed Americans (especially if in their fifties
now) must have loved it even more.
Anyway, the historical events of a country mingled with the personal life of
this naive but strong character make for a great narrative
device.
Excellent movie for everybody.

******
29 June 1999
10

Some things in the life can't compares to other similar things. You have
the
US' position in the world, Mahatma Gandhi's position as an idol &
marvellous
human being & from 1994 also Forrest Gump. I'm sure we're not going to see
any as good or better movie in the future, at least we've not seen it yet!


******
7 May 1999
10

People, this is a great film.  And, if you want to get picky about it,
it's
the only big blockbuster to make it onto the IMDB Top 250 in the past ten
years, with the exception of "Terminator 2".  That just goes to show that
it
is not "hype over content".  Many people were turned off by the idea of a
stupid person as the all-encompassing Everyman, but these were the same
people who left the movie theater dry-eyed and continued on their very
way,
looking for advice from Madison Avenue, dumping their oh-so-liberal views
on
whoever would be genial enough to listen, and oh yes, condescendingly
talking down to the local village idiot and then making fun of him behind
his back.  Believe me, I have known people in my time described as
"village
idiots", and the personality with which Tom Hanks imbues Gump's character
is
dead-on accurate.  The film touched me in so many ways that my throat
still
lumps up every time the feather ascends to the sky with Alan Silvestri's
BEAUTIFUL music playing in the background.  Zemeckis should be proud of
himself for this one, which I think will go down as his masterpiece (and
that's saying something from the man who made "Back to the Future" and
"Who
Framed Roger Rabbit").  Forrest Gump may have been slow, but he was
anything
but a simpleton...those who denounce people like him and their naive
worldview just envy the fact that their lives are built around a
shimmering
ideal brighter than all of the sexcapades and trivial pettiness of
normality.  Oh yes, and for the person who commented on this film as "The
worst Best Picture Oscar winner of the 90s"...obviously you haven't seen
"Shakespeare in Love".

******
6 May 1999
9

This is film is one of the best because of the content it has. Forrest Gump
is a dim-witted young man who goes through three turbulent decades
unknowingly while searching for his childhood friend, Jenny. What he goes
through will amaze and astound you. He goes through the Vietnam War,
Watergate, the 60s, and so much more. What is amazing in this film was the
special effects used to incorporate Hank's character into this film. ILM
(Industrial Light & Magic) takes the credit for it and what they do is an
amazing job. Don't miss this film. Go out and rent it tonight.

******
6 May 1999
10

I don't know where to start in praising this movie. This movie is
superb from beginning to end.Not only is it accurate in it's portrayal of
the Vietnam War,It is also quite accurate with it's portrayal of
Woodstock.This is one of my favorite movies.4 out of 4 stars,2 thumbs way
up!!!

******
24 April 1999
8

I like Forrest Gump. It's a very emotionally packed movie that is well
acted, written, and filmed. I think the film adaptation is better than the
book itself and the deep symbolism play an important role in that. The
rcreation of five decades in American History is truly a feat to be hailed.
And the soundtrack is a very good mix of oldies. One thing that strikes me
as impressive in this movie is the attention to details. Such as the filming
of Bubba's ansectors and Lt. Dan's history of ansestors dying in wars. Even
the most standard of short scenes can take hours to film. These quick
flashbacks take up less than 12 seconds of film and weren't even totally
necessary to film, but they did anyway. That gives this movie an A for
effort in my book.

******
18 April 1999
10

First of all, I think it's very easy to say a film is over-hyped, it'd
show
you're the man who knows what movies are all about and that the big stupid
crowd is unable to be as genius as you are. This is truly a great movie
because of the different levels (plain story- american history -etc) and
the
thought that has went into the story-line, it's perfectly round.It's
touching as it is original. I'll remember this one as being really
different
from the others, which is - in these days- a good reason to receive
oscars,
don't you think? (if you want a hype, look at titanic)

******
8 April 1999
10

This truly is one of the best movies I have ever seen. At first I was a bit
reluctant to see it because it is a long movie and because I usually like
action movies much more, but I never regretted seeing this
film.
It is touching and warm, yet never over cooked. It's dramatic and
sentimental yet never to an unbelievable degree.
It's funny without losing its credibility or ridiculing America's
history.Forrest Gump simply is a movie which not only entertains you but which also
make you feel good.Highly recommended!

******
30 March 1999
10

This movie is not about how time changes a person. It is about how time has
NOT changed a person. Regardless of the environment he was in, Forrest
remained loyal to his friends, and loyal to his beliefs.
An extraordinary story in an ordinary man. A profound message in a witty
plot. On top of these, attention is paid to every detail. The truth in
Forrest Gump makes all falsehood blush. 

******
22 March 1999
9

I was put off from watching Forrest Gump for a long while by the excessive
hype and praise it received, especially at the Academy Awards. I felt that it
(like Titanic last year) just couldn't be deserving of all those awards.I still agree with countless others here that it didn't deserve all those
awards in the face of the great competition it faced, but after seeing it
for the first time a couple of years ago I think that Forrest Gump is a
great film, and (unlike Titanic) it has a lot of depth to it, provides much
to be enjoyed, and stands up well to repeated viewing.It will never compete with something like The Shawshank Redemption in my
eyes, but few films do. With some films it's just best to sit back and enjoy
the way it looks, and the way it makes you feel, this is one of
them.


******
21 March 1999
9

Forrest Gump goes a long way to prove that anybody
can be something, and he receives some help along
the way,when young Hanna Hall protects him from the
bullies, and then when he conquers handicaps to be
a football star. The one weakness is a chronological
inaccuracy--the former Alabama Governor George Wallace
tried to prevent the integration of the University of
Alabama in June of 1963 and then President Kennedy
receives Forrest Gump as an all American. But the
1963 season was still in progress when President Kennedy
was assassinated in Dallas,so he couldn't have met Forrest 
Gump at the White House as an All American the same year

******
17 March 1999
10

This is absolutely one of the best movies ever made.
If it didn't change history (at least movie-history) forever,
I don't know what will.

******
16 March 1999
9

This movie was well acted and a little sad toward the end. It seemed like a
movie either liked or disliked by people. I for one liked it. It's neat how
they edit Tom Hanks in almost every major event from the 50's to the 80's.
It's not really a movie about special effects but it manages to squeeze some
in. I think what caught most people's eyes was that we understood Hanks. We
could relate to his grief and rise to intelligence. For me, this will remain
one of the greatest movies of all time. For others, sorry but you'll have to
wait for another movie that touches your heart with gentle hands. 

******
8 March 1999
10

Some users view this movie as inferior to The Shawshank Redemption (TSR)
which was released the same year. Personally, I see that both Forrest Gump
(FG) and TSR as the same standard of excellence. Both movies shows
contrasting aspects of hope and how to adjust to injustices in the outside
world. What made FG a classic and probably gave it the best picture Oscar
was not only the special effects throughout the movie, or the brilliant
appropriate use of music fitting the era, but the incredible acting and plot
device.
When I first saw FG I thought it was a good family comedy with immense
amounts of surrealism. However after repeat viewing I realised that FG had
one of the most thought provoking scripts ever committed to film. There are
so many aspects of the storyline that has never left me ever since I saw the
movie almost five years ago. Just like Life is Beautiful there is the
external and internal images and story in this picture. The external is a
family comedy that will make you laugh as many things seem so outrageous.
However internally, FG is a movie about drug addiction, child sexual abuse,
a true sacrificial love story with one way traffic, how a person can cope
with disability without committing suicide, the nature of God when something
terrible happens to you, prostitution and so much more besides. Tell me one
other movie that can handle these subjects and still make you laugh
throughout while telling you important moral lessons?Unlike other so called romance movies like Titanic, FG was not based on lust
rather an understanding and fidelity of other persons' characters. If
Forrest Gump is a bit dumb he makes up for it with his saint like character.
What made this movie tragic is the long time span in which Forrest is in
love with his girl and would do almost anything for her and yet she
disrespects him because he is mentally disabled, he is not 'normal'. Yet the
people Jenny hangs around with are spiritually and morally 'abnormal'. If
people can't relate to this maybe it is beyond their understanding and
comprehension as they have never been in that position.Forrest may not be able to verbalise the meaning of love, but his actions
put 'normal' people to shame and some. Where else in a modern film do you
see the hero being rejected by a gril or even genuinely wanting to get
married, only in the old classics I suppose!! Forrest always has the hope of
a better future, he teaches the audience that you should always have an aim
to look forward to and that will help to keep you sane under misfortune,
even if it's simply running down the road to owning a business. In addition,
the movie shows that no matter what your disability you can still make a
contribution to society and other people's lives. If this is not a powerful
message I have never seen or heard one. Forrest knows that Jenny is the only
girl he has got a chance with to be his wife, which makes the story even
sadder as we see Jenny living a life on the edge. Even at the ending we are
unsure whether Forrest is really looking after his son, but as long it is
Jenny's and she is his,  he does not mind. Maybe this is a blind type of
love, but he also loves Jenny like a biblical prodigal sister and he does
not realise that he may have AIDS too. However FG gives hope to many
millions of people around the world who are disabled and feel socially
excluded in society. As the years roll by I still think about this movie
which shows aspects of life which are heart wretchingly profound if you look
beyond the external window.
If this isn't a 10/10 movie I have not seen one.

******
1 March 1999
10

Forrest Gump is one of my favorite movies and I love it because it's the
story of a compassionate man who doesn't have a high I.Q. but is an example
to all of us.  He cares about others and proves that to be good at heart is
much more valuable than being very smart.
I have given a vote of 10 points to this wonderful movie. 

******
28 February 1999
10

All other movies bow down and worship.  Forrest Gump is by far the greatest
movie big and small screen.  An outstanding plot with comedy, drama, and
action all together.  Follow Forrest through our nation's history as played
by the one and only Tom Hanks.

******
2 February 1999
10

First, I'd like to say that this movie is formidably made. Referring to
acting, storyline and the astonishing FX I couldn't do more than repeating
things other admirers of FG have already said. It's got all in it: comedy,
romance and the fuel a movie needs to work: the "I wonder how it'll all
end!" that keeps (most of) the audience with this character throughout this
quite long film.I can't agree with the points often critizised about FG. And, honestly, I
think that the less subtle the critics are, the more hurt is their U.S.
patriotism.
First, If you wonder if something is realistic here, you should stop
watching movies. One good thing about FG is, that it isn't supposed to be
realistic, though it almost convinces you that it is, but it is far too
overdone to be so. It is meant to be a fable, like Benigni's "La vita e
bella"."Stupid is as stupid does" is to my mind the key word throughout the movie.
Forrest Gump stumbles through world history (though only the United States
are shown, but Hollywood usually supposes them to be the world so the movie
has to be seen more in general than it's usual critics do) and what he sees
makes only sense to a dim-whitted who doesn't let himself get stirred by
events: Politicians are shot at(though no one elects better ones),
Leutenants seek death in battle, "running as fast as the wind" is regarded
as sufficient to get a collegue-degree and somebody who wants to change the
world ends up in a terrible mess, having somehow missed the point. So we all
do stupid often enough, society does and even America does
like the rest of the world.
Just Forrest doesn't.(Except towards Jenny, but that's a completely
different thing, that's love.)He has only an IQ of 75 but he is the only one
who behaves in a way we would like to expect from everyone (though we surely
don't want them to talk like that). He has nothing to base his actions upon
than his common sense and that shows us how far we've come apart from our
ideal of rational behaviour.In the end one word to those who hated the film for Jenny's death of AIDS
which they regarded as punishment,decreed by an reactionary movie: to my
mind, Jenny's death is not ideology, it's tragedy, though it also conveys
the basic idea of the movie. We won't get a better world by revolutions or
drugs, we only achieve it if more people would do like Forrest, even when
they have a higher IQ. 

******
30 January 1999
8

Well, this is a film, which sees, to be either LOVED or HATED.To me, this film appealed to me for it's story-line, and the way it is
"different" from other films. I also liked the fact that a lot "happened" in
the film.The idea of the film separates it from any other. From childhood bullies to  The Vietnam War, this film is a real
pleaser.At times sad, funny, confusing, this trip through Forrest Gump's life is a
heart warming experience.Absolutely, "Vundabar"!

******
25 January 1999
9

Forrest Gump is one of the movies that actually has a well-written plot.
Forrest Gump (played by Tom Hanks) is waiting for the bus one day. He is
sort of dimwitted, as he has an iq of 75. But as people sit next to him at
the bus stop, he goes through so many events that happened through his life,
it makes you think that you were actually there with him. This film is
absolutely phenomenal. I saw this in 3rd hour English today and this film
just went and tugged at my heart strings. This movie was so realistic that
you could actually FEEL Forrest's sadness, joys, and even the adventures
that he went through in his life.This is one I definitely plan to see again. 

******
23 January 1999
10

In all my years and all the films I have seen in my life Forrest Gump was
truly one of the greatest. A simple minded Forrest Gump travels through the
60's. 70's, & 80's and even though the times change Forrest stayed the
same. A college football star, a war hero, a ping pong champion, and shrimp
tycoon.
Tom Hanks pours out one of the finest acting performances in film history
and is supported by a tremendous cast, Gary Sinise, Robin Wright Penn and
Sally Field. Robert Zemeckis directs a true winner and the special effects
were flawless. Life truly will never be the same after you see Forrest Gump.
4 star classic


******
23 January 1999
10

Hello everyone! I'm Daniel Galvalizi and I am here to give my opinion about
my favorite movie, named Forrest Gump. I do believe this movie deserves
every award that it won.I think Tom Hanks's character is played excellent. He always played
character very well, but this one was just great.
And i've also got to say, that Sally Field and Gary Snise are the best
supporting actors i ever watched. They are also very well.I love the Forrest Gump's script. It's very good!! And the direccion was
pretty good too.Finally, i think Forrest Gump show us the american way in his best and
greatest form; and this movie make us think about what is really important
in life. God bless Forrest Gump!

******
18 January 1999
10

Forrest gump is a movie about a big hearted man who can achieve what a normal
man never could dream of.it starts out with forrest (tom hanks) sitting on a bus stop waiting for the
bus. he tells the story of his life for those who sits with him.he has an iq of 75 and everyone thinks he is stupid. but we get to follow him
through every major event in some of the biggest history events from 1950 and
forward. the story floates smothly and the jokes are brilliant. the movie is
one of the most romantic, loving ones i've ever seen.a man with an iq so small, but with a heart so big it pays up
double.the movie is as great as a movie can get. the actors are wonderful,
especially hanks, and denise.
the screenplay is beautiful the environments great. not to speak about the
special effects.
i can't seem to find one bad thing about the movie i try and try but i can't
find it.this is a must see!!


******
16 January 1999
10

This movie is my all-time favorite.  The plot, the making, the actors. I just
find everything on it is just great.

******
16 January 1999
10

Today I watched the original version for the first time, not having seen the
German-dubbed version for some time. And I was really amazed how I couldn't
hold back my tears. This movie is a masterpiece! I remembered that I had
also cried the previous times I had watched that movie. But I wasn't really
driven to tears by any movie during the last months and so I thought I might
have grown kind of too tough to be really touched. And then I watched
Forrest Gump again and at least five times a stream of water broke off in my
eyes. Scenes like Jenny's return, Forrest naming his shrimps-boat "Jenny",
the last conversation with his mother or the final scene by Jenny's grave -
oh, and when he meets his son... Oh boy! I even started to cry before I saw
these scenes because I already knew what happens and that sole expectation
was enough to make me cry. I haven't experienced so MUCH and so TRUE and so
INEVITABLE emotion in a movie for a very long time. I would go on
enumerating all the scenes where I cried, because I love Forrest's pure love
for Jenny so much, I love his relationship with his mother, I love his
loyalty against Bubba and I love his friendship with Lieutenant Dan... I
just love the movie!But of course a really good movie as it is, is not only built on water. It's
also a very funny movie. You won't laugh half as loud as you will during
movies like "The Naked Gun"(if you like them), but there is no less humour.
The appearance of icons like JFK, Elvis and John Lennon and the - more or
less honest - intention to chronicle American history from the 1950s to the
1980s belong to this humour. All these events are made ridiculous and dealt
with as though they were rather unimportant, but they also make up the
movie. Things look less disturbing, when you see them through the eyes of
Forrest Gump! He doesn't understand what's going on and doesn't take it
seriously. But would you hate him therefore? No. Do you think you'd have to
pity him? No.All the characters are fantastic. Forrest, the moron, who is so wonderfully
naive that he would deserve and obtain all the happiness of the world. The
proud and unconventional mother, misguided but through and through
good-hearted Jenny, dedicatedly silly-stuff-talking Bubba and especially
Lieutenant Dan, who is such an interesting and wonderfully created
character. Gary Sinise plays him as such a jerk in terms, but always
likeable and understandable. All other actors are no less fantastic, but I
don't want to extend this to far. My rating, of course, is a clear
10!

******
25 September 2010
8
While this one rates as the premiere performance on film of Tom Hanks,
I think one thing that prevents it from being an all time best film is
the entertainment factor. Robert Zemekis direction efforts are always
solid entertaining films (with the exception of a few of the remakes he
has done in recent years which thankfully are getting buried without
ceremony).Tom Hanks is not just Gump in this movie but he is the narrator for
pretty much the whole film. If they had stuck with the book this is
based on, there would have been a lot of missing drama. Would this
movie be as effective if the drama was a lot less? I think it would be.
The death of Jenny while making for a dramatic ending does not really
add to the film other than making you reach for the hankies.For a Zemekis film, this one is slower moving than most. It pulls at
the heart strings as Gump is presented as a stupid person who lucks
into many historic moments by accident. Really, Gump is not stupid,
just slow & partnered for much of the film with his commanding officer
from the service, a double leg amputee, there is a good chemistry
between these characters.There is the dream girl Jenny. Gump claims to always be thinking of
her. Good touches in the film include the party with the girls & the
guys where Forrest breaks up the party by complaining that the one girl
trying to make out with him tastes like cigarettes. There is the simile
of "Life is like a box of chocolates" which is the most quoted line of
this movie.Too many folks don't like the reading of politics into this, so don't
look for this. If you just sit back & enjoy the story telling & not
look for holes in the plot, then everything is fine. The same applies
to the Back To The Future series Zemekis directed. The plots in many of
his films are full of holes when you analyze them. So don't do it, why
get a headache when you don't need too.

******
30 May 2009
8
This is one of the most touching movies I have ever seen. Brilliant.
Tom Hanks gives one of his greatest performances and no one else could
have pulled it off the way he did. I believe anyone over the age of 14
should see this movie. I didn't think it could be done. I came in with
average expectations and I came out in joy. There will never be another
movie like this again. Robert Zemeckis is one of the all time best
directors for this piece of magic. Thought Tom Hanks goes the extra
mile in this I have to give credit to the supporting roles in this
movie. This was Best Picture winner all the way and nothing could have
stopped it.

******
25 May 2009
9
Marvelous movie!That's all I can say.I only saw one performance of Tom
Hanks before,in The DaVinci Code,and I wasn't extremely impressed.But
this performance...MY GOD!absolutely STUNNING!This movie totally deserves it's Oscars.I was so fond of the movie and
of Hanks's performance that I searched his speech at the moment of
receiving the academy award.Touching.This man has a huge talent.I also liked the fact that it didn't show only the bad,or the good
stuff in Gump's life.It combines drama and comedy in a unique way.I didn't expect very much,because I don't really enjoy "old"movies(I
consider a movie of the 90's old).But this totally jumps off the page!BRAVO!A must see!

******
7 May 2009
10
This is really the best movie I had ever seen in my whole life..
incredible .. stunning .. magnificent and sensitive ..I saw this movie for the first time when I was in the university in the
middle of the 90s and I was really amazed of the great performance by
Tom Hanks and the great motion and effects and screenplay by the genius
Robert Zemics ..The movie talks about the history of Forrest Gump .. a low IQed kid who
could live and amazingly succeed in the life with his own self and with
his pure soul and simple mind ..Forrest lived really great historical events in the American history
such like: The end of the American era of Racism against the blacks,
Kennedy's rise and assassination, The cold war, The 1st man on the
moon, The American failure in Vietnam, the era of the Heapies and
punks, Watergate and the resign of Nixon, the failed assassination
trial on Regan .. He met a lot of important key characters (Which were
presented live and in complete interaction with Forrest Gump by the
Genius effects and mixing by Zemics) like: Elvis Presley, John F.
Kennedy, John Lennon, Johnson and Nixon ..All his life was full of surprises and hits of golden touches of luck
.. he went to Vietnam and was the only survivor of his unit, he became
a millionaire and the owner of a great shrimp investment enterprise and
a famous personality but he has never changed or skipped his innocent
dreams of principals ..His world was limited in his mom (Sally Field), His only love in life
Jenny (Robin Penn), His unit Lt. in Vietnam and later his friend and
partner Lt. Dan Taylor (Gary Sinise), His only friend and inspirer
Bubba (Mykelti Williamson) and with these characters he was living his
dreams and whole life .. a life of complete innocence and purity ..A Genius look from Robert Zemics was the flying white feather .. A
feather that is flying and wandering in the air .. and is motioned only
by the force of the air breezes .. this represent the life and nature
of Forrest Gump .. to live the life with its currents and incidents and
to be able to survive and take it simply in each condition ..Really this was the best ever role performed by Tom Hanks which was
REALLY great and magnificent .. also the role of Gary Sinise was great
.. I almost believed that his legs were really cut off !! The life
through Forrest Gump's eyes are really different .. simpler .. nicer
and brighter ..Thanks Tommy!! *** Lo'ay

******
21 March 2009
10
Will be every man's excuse to cry at this film (I accepted the fact I
cried at this and I'm a guy). What doesn't help is the music, so
emotionally moving and make you get a lump in your throat every time
you here it. who is forrest gump? Forrest Gump is the clear
representation that everyone can love, good or bad, smart or dumb we
all can find it. I'm not gonna go on about the fantastic script,
directing, cinematography or musical score. But I will say that every
actor/ actress in the film 'is' the character they portray. Tom Hanks
gives a performance which will make you laugh and cry (one of the top 5
greatest performances ever). the story is about his life and how he
happens to run into every major event of the past 50 years. A truly
moving story, one of the best films ever. so what if its very
Hollywood, still beautiful

******
25 October 2008
10
I don't know anybody who didn't like this film. If you haven't seen
this film yet, then you must do it. There is everything in this movie.
It's about a guy with a low IQ who will soon become a football
champion, war hero, ping-pong champion and a millionaire. He's also
changing other peoples lives so this movie isn't about one man's life,
it's about many different peoples lives. Forest also meets many
celebrities like Elvis Presley or John Lennon. There is some sad
moments and there is some funny moments. The soundtrack was great. It's
one of the best movies ever made. It's also the best Tom Hank's
performance ever. I've seen his other movies like Green Mile or
Philadelphia but this one is the best.

******
15 October 2008
10
Forrest Gump is a very good movie. It is very appropriate for this
movie to win 6 Oscars including Best Picture. The story is about a
special person who tells the story of his life while sitting on a bus
bench(for most of the time). He talks about his childhood, his first
friend and lover, Jenny, Vietnam, and more about Jenny. I liked the
romance in the film. Usuallt, I don't like romance but this kind of
romance kept me involved in the movie. The acting is good. I liked Tom
Hank's southern accent. I liked the music in the film. The score is
nice to listen to and the songs are instant classics. I believe that
some people don't like this movie because it seems very political with
all the references to the President. Overall, this is a very good,
inspiring film. I rate this movie 10/10.

******
2 June 2008
9
You may be a powerful personality,you might have been in historic
events,you might be a source of inspiration to others,you may be rich
but all these things will not be a significant factor in your life if
you do not have the person of your love along with you.I cannot remember a movie which I've seen more than dozen number of
times apart from Forrest Gump. My favorite scene is towards the end
where Tom Hanks breaks down after knowing that he met his kid and
finally composes himself after learning that his son is quite
bright(unlike him). Funny,Heart wrenching and ultimately heart warming. 9/10 for the
Ultimate feel good movie..

******
4 March 2008
9
I must say that one of the best movies I've seen in the past ten years
has got to be Forrest Gump. The writing alone is more than anything
than I could have thought, even after hearing so many people quoting
the movie and Forrest. As far as acting goes, Tom did a wonderful job
as Forrest. However, I must admit that sometimes Forrest's narration
got slightly annoying. Nevertheless, all of the actors in the film did
a wonderful job. A particularly surprising performance by the Actress
that played Jenny sticks out in my mind.The editing was good, although I think it could have been slightly
shorter. But there isn't enough wrong with the editing to complain
about. The characters were all made to immediately grasp the audience's
attention, which is what happened moments after they were introduced.None of the music really sticks out, but it definitely wasn't anything
to complain about. The overall mood of the film, though, is what really
helps bring it together. I was half afraid I might let a tear slip
close to the end of the film; not really because Jenny dies, but more
because of how happy Forrest is just having the life that he does with
his son. And as he flashed back to the scenes on the boat, in Vietnam,
and his running as he looked at the different skies at different times
of day, I realized the beauty that the film makers were trying to
capture through the eyes of this slightly retarded man.All in all, I could really not ask for much better of a film.

******
2 March 2008
10
it's the most beautiful movie you'll ever see.Tom Hanks is a great
actor.I give it 100 of 10 =) it's a good movie when I finished to see
the movie,I had the best feeling ever!I felt that this is the most
perfect movie that I have ever seen. It's my favorite movie. And why?
the reasons: FIRST-the acting (specially Tom Hanks) is great and
professional! SECOND-the movie is so interesting.there isn't one second
that I was bored. THIRD-the music is great,and I really liked that
Forrest Gump was involved in every event of America. Fourth-even if
he's just sitting almost the whole movie on the bench,all of his
stories are interesting.AND everyone here that read the bad comments about Forrest,PLEASE don't
let them deceive you! I think they just don't know nothing about
qualitative films.I hope you all see this wonderful movie,with Tom Hanks and Sally Field!

******
27 February 2008
10
Two people, Forrest Gump and Jenny Curran, form an unbreakable bond as
children. Forrest, although lacking in the brains department, manages
to witness and play his part in some of the greatest events in American
history. He meets JFK, wins the Medal of Honor in Vietnam, and manages
to accidentally start the Watergate investigation. Forrest lives the
American dream whereas Jenny lives the American nightmare; she has an
abusive father and grows up to have a string of abusive boyfriends,
works as a stripper, takes narcotics and ultimately contracts AIDS.
Despite the pair going in completely different directions in life, they
are still drawn to each other and Forrest and Jenny's story is one that
will make you smile, laugh and shed a tear.Every once and while, you see lists of the worst films to win Best
Picture Oscars, and usually Forrest Gump makes that list. I think the
reason for this is that we live in quite a cynical world and the
majority of people do not really warm to lead characters that are
innocent and pure of heart. This should not be the case. We should
adore characters that are completely honest and very insightful despite
their low IQs, and Forrest Gump is one of those characters that we
should love. People who watch this film should check their cynicism at
the door and just enjoy a film that is about the everyman battling the
world using only truth and a deep-seated sense of what he believes is
right. After all, this film has a noble tradition, it follows in the
footsteps of Mr. Smith Goes to Washington and It's A Wonderful Life. If
Frank Capra were alive today, he would make films like Forrest Gump (if
he could come to grips with all the CGI) and that's all I have to say
about that

******
19 February 2008
10
I don't know Tom Hanks and the likelihood is i will never meet him.
However i would be very surprised if this film doesn't rate amongst his
best/favourite/one to be proud of when he is talking to his
grandchildren It is a timeless classic. i fully expect to be many a
persons favourite film of all time. There is nothing about this film
not to like, from the catchphrases, the audacious dips into world
history and celebrity, its cheeky nods towards serious issues such as
child abuse, racism, politics etc. The performances are superb, led
from the front by Hanks. I think Bubba is hysterical, Sally field was
an inspirational choice for the momma role, and lieutenant Dan nearly
steals the show, and would have done if Hanks hadn't absolutely nailed
it! THe best thing though about this film is its appeal, you can watch
it on DVD on a Monday but if you happened to find it on television in
the same week you would watch it again, and yes you would still be
saying the catchphrases at the end........My name is Forrest Gump,
people call me Forrest Gump.

******
31 January 2008
9
There are few films that possess a truly breathtaking and epic feel to
them these days. Many try, but don't succeed. Forest Gump succeeded in
feeling epic to me, even though when it boils down to it, the film is
about one person.That one person is one of the most remarkable characters ever to grace
the screen, a simple man who nevertheless embraces what life brings him
and as a result, has some amazing experiences. Tom Hanks shows how
versatile he is, making what must have been a demanding role look
effortless and natural. The result is that you really care about what
happens to Forest, whether he's running, fighting in Vietnam, or
seeking to prove to Jenny how he feels.Gary Sinese is also great in this film- his was a truly challenging
role- he played a soldier who ends up losing his legs, and feels that
Forest cheated him out of his destiny of dying in battle. To simulate
having no legs is a true challenge, but he does it, and it's
believable.The only thing that lets this film down is that it goes in for a
somewhat predictable, sentimental ending, in which Forest's angel,
Jenny, dies, shortly after they are married. Nevertheless, Forest Gump
is an excellent film and it's no wonder Tom Hanks took home an Oscar
for it.

******
5 January 2008
8
I have just watched Forrest Gump again on DVD,and it still stands up
after all these years!Tom Hanks is truly amazing as the simple man who
remains true to himself.It is an amazing performance, as he truly
understands the character, this is not a moron but a man who lives his
life by basic truths, from which he never deviates.The first time I saw this film in 1994, I dismissed it as baby boomer
crap.I missed the emotional content that gives the film its real
power.Forget about the ground breaking computer generated imagery, its
the performances and the story that lifts this film above the ordinary.Tom Hanks truly deserved his second Oscar for what was a truly
memorable role.Just watch the scenes just after Jenny leaves him near
the end.He does not need say anything.Robin Wright has the smaller role as the love of his life.We watch her
journey throughout the film. It is deeply moving as she recognises that
walking on the wild side will not bring her happiness.If I have one
complaint about this film, it is that Jenny is almost used as a cipher
to depict the drug culture and the permissive society of the 1960s and
1970s.Anyone who is conservative in their politics, could be comforted
by the arc of Jenny's character including her demise.Gary Sinise is terrific as Lt Dan Taylor.He is good in so many films
like Ransom,Snake Eyes and Apollo 13.Here he portrays a complex
character who evolves in much the same way as Tom Cruise in Born on the
Fourth of July.It is an emotional film about love and its various incarnations, that
at the heart of this movie.Forrest's love never changes even though his
country changes all around him.

******
20 August 2007
10
Pure and emotional, strong and up-right, this film has it all.
Wonderful characters, beautiful direction and a very strong story. Tom
Hanks is in his wonderful best as Forrest Gump, a man who may not be
very clever but indeed carry's a good and caring heart. This is a truly
mesmerising and heavy film, with all the right ingredients. Hanks has
donned his best here, and created an academy award with his stunning
performance.But see this film without a doubt, carry it through life and watch it
time and time again. The emotional charisma makes it the whole more
better.Cry, stand and salute a brilliant film. Forrest Gump is right up in the
front row of Hollywood's all time masterpieces.

******
4 June 2007
9
The movie Forrest Gump is a fantastic movie. Both setting and plot were
fabulous and it definitely showed "The World". Forrest Gump starts
telling how stupid he is and then he becomes a marvelous football
player, a ping pong player, and shrimp fisherman. He has a different
intelligence and that makes him special and so successful in life. The
most inspiring thing he does is how he fights for Jenny. When he always
follows her and never gives up on her. At the beginning of the film, I
thought he was really stupid but I realized that all he says is
symbolic. He acts stupid but is actually smarter than most of the other
people, that is why you should never judge someone by his/her
appearance. He also has the typical Alabama accent, which makes the
movie seem even more realistic. Each character was used
surrealistically and unrealistically to show the theme everyman.The actors in this movie are perfectly well cast. Forrest Gump (Tom
Hanks) is such a good actor and plays his role brilliant. He should've
deserved an Academic award. Sally Field, who plays Forrest's mother, is
actually only 4 years older than Tom Hanks, plays her role as a mother
really well and symbolizes good motherhood. She can act as if she is 20
years older than him. Jenny (Robin Wright) plays her role as a good
friend of Forrest and Hippie also very well. All the main characters do
their job really well in this movie. The most supporting character was
Jenny (Robin Wright). She was the main reason why Forrest Gump did
everything. At the end where she dies, he even mentions it that he's
done everything she wanted and that he loved her. She really supported
him to achieve something in his life.I really liked the setting in this movie. Where Forrest Gump starts off
as a normal boy to a man in a small fictional town in Alabama, and then
travels around and sees "the whole world". He is a simple Alabama kid
and becomes all of a sudden really famous. It is like his life was
chosen by destiny. That he would start off really small and then become
very big and famous. He didn't choose to become a football player or a
shrimp fisherman; he met Bubba to even find out what shrimps were. Only
one thing was something he chose and always wanted to have, to get
married with Jenny. His love and everything he would do for her to make
her happy. The author did this on purpose. He wanted to show himself as
everyman. That everyman can achieve something in their lives, not as
much as Forrest Gump like he was there most of the events and became a
ping pong player and all that. Obviously he couldn't be there on those
events, but this is for the theme, to show everyman.When Forrest Gump started to run around the whole world, he inspired
many people. Only by running he just made them all run with him. He is
a great inspiration even though people think he is "dumb". He does
things that seem to be stupid, but actually are very clever. He is a
very hard-working man and achieves everything which everyman wants.
That shows basically the theme of this movie: work hard and you will
achieve your goals. No wonder that this movie had won several Academy
Awards. It is a great movie and I would suggest all the people who
don't believe in themselves to watch this movie. It helped me a lot to
work for my dreams, my hopes, and everything what I always tried to be.If I had to rate this movie, I would give 9 out of 10 points because it
has an exciting plot and well-chosen characters. Alabama is a great
place for the setting of this movie and everywhere Forrest Gump went
was also well chosen to show the theme: "Life is like a box of
chocolates!" It means that you never know what you will get and
everyman doesn't know what they get except trying to achieve their
goals to find out. This movie has more than only one theme, but talking
about all themes would take ages. It has got the theme of war and theme
of motherhood and much more. The movie was definitely better than the
book since it was more realistic and had better characterization. It is
basically a message to us to see what is happening in the world or what
happened. It really impressed me and I would watch it again because it
is so interesting. It is almost perfect but as we all know, nothing or
no one is perfect!

******
10 April 2007
9
Forrest Gump is one of the best stories of all time. It flows so well
and there are so many clever moments that connect the film. Each
segment of Forrest's autobiography is packed with emotion and humor.
This movie really has it all. The characters are really amazing. I love
the relationship he forms with Bubba and with lieutenant Dan. This
movie is jam packed with quotes. The epic relationship between Forrest
and Jinny worked really well, it was heart wrenching at points. The
performance by Tom Hanks was amazing they way he changed his voice, his
walk, and his whole persona was really amazing. I love this movie every
time I watch it. From start to finish it is a masterpiece that I think
everyone should watch.

******
17 March 2007
9
I have seen "Forrest Gump" (FG), a number of times, since I first saw
it theatrically July 1994, when it was first released. I was first
captured by it's beautiful music score. Then the story and Tom Hanks's
performance as Forrest Gump, also won me over. This film knows how to
push the right emotional buttons. There is no conventional story or
plot in this film, yet the film works very well. Some people dislike
this film, because the main character is of low intelligence and his
adventures in life seem hard to believe. There are several reasons to
attribute the big success of this film. Partly the screenplay, partly
Tom Hank's performance, partly the music score and the film's sweep
through 30 years of recent and familiar American history. FG is a very
American film. Americans like a story of a simple person achieving
great things. I believe many people reacted and related to the
character of Forrest Gump in this film. A simple, innocent and humble
man achieving great things in his life. Part of the moral of the story,
is that brains aren't always necessary to achieve in life, a warm and
kind heart can achieve in other ways in life. The story idea is that
life is both destiny and luck. I like that philosophy and agree with
it. To me, FG is a modern classic, American film.

******
5 February 2007
9
this is a great movie. tom hanks was awesome. he wowed me with his
performance playing a person with a low IQ. he was very convincing and
was great during his emotional scenes.robin wright did a good job playing jenny. she was a good looking
character who treated forrest like poop. also robin can sing well as
she displayed in that strip club scene.the movie went away from the norm of typical Hollywood movies. the
creators took a chance and made a masterpiece that will forever live in
film history. it also had a great soundtrack, therefor it must be a good movie.

******
19 January 2007
10
What can you expect from a director who only has experience with
Fiction movies? I knew Tom Hanks wouldn't say "yes" to just any script,
it had to be something above all. I was curious, so I went to the
theater the day it came out. After three hours in the cinema the film
finally came to an end. I was surprised by what I had seen. Normally
after a movie you remember the good scenes, the ones that made a really
deep impression on you. But this film was different. I could remember
all the scenes, even the really short ones. As a film reviewer that is
really important, and someone actually have to take notes during the
show. I believe "Forrest Gump"'s screenplay is well written(even though
it's truly a story from a novel) and directed that it will make even
the most heartless man want to cry, sing, and dance. The story "Forrest Gump" faces many of todays society problems from a
different point view. Forrest Gump(Tom Hanks) is a retarded boy who
grows up in the state of Alabama with his single mother that always had
a way of explaining things that made him understand. Forrest was born
with soft bones, and was therefore forced to walk with steel tubes, one
on each side of his leg, all the way up to his knee. It had big
influence on him as a child, and you will recognize it later into his
life as well. These are some of the things they face; Racism, drug
abuse, war, killing as protest against politicians, love, and of course
retarded people.This is a "must see!". I recommend "Forrest Gump" to everybody, it's a
movie you cant be without. Beautiful point of view, that I've never
seen anything like. Well acted, incredibly good directed, and written
god like.

******
7 January 2007
10
This movie is definitely in my top ten list. Every scene makes you want
to have a taste of the next one already without even knowing what will
happen in that previous one. It's surrealistic because so many great
events happen to the main character his life almost turns into a modern
fairy tale. It's funny because it's meaningful and honest and true. The
story is inspiring and once you've seen it you won't ever forget it
because it's simply a masterpiece. When I saw Forrest Gump for the
first time I couldn't think of doing anything else. Because normally I
get a drink, roll a cigarette or get something to eat when I watch at
home, but with this one I was so fascinated it just flew me toward the
end on a cloud of movie wonder and top acting. Thank you Robert
Zemeckis for directing this work of art. Thank you Gary Sinise, Robin
Wright Penn, Mykelti Williamson, Sally Field ... for amazing
performances . Thank you Tom Hanks for being Forrest Gump and making
millions of people happy and moved because this is one of the best!

******
31 December 2006
8
Winston Groom's novel was optioned to PAramount in 1986 and spent about
seven years gathering dust before Robert Zemekis wanted to option this
into a movie. Eric Roth agreed to pen the screenplay adaptation,and
with some fortuitous and shrewd casting(fortuitous=freshly Oscar-minted
Tom Hanks,shrewd=Gary Sinise,Sally Field,Robin Wright and Mykelti
Williamson)mixed in with clever CGI,a little novel that had a cult
following and was nearly forgotten became a Runaway Summer Box Office
success and a Academy Award winner. Such is the story of the making of Forrest Gump. I tell this,because
the actual story of the film is pretty well understood by now:
slow,possibly retarded Southerner Forrest Gump(Hanks,very un-Hanks-like
and probably why he drew a second Oscar)is waiting on a bus to visit
the love of his life,a troubled woman named Jenny(Robin Wright,nearly
unrecognizable from her days as a soap actress or even from Princess
Buttercup in The Princess Bride). While waiting,he--in his beguiling
and completely unaffected manner--begins to tell strangers who happen
by to wait on a bus about his story,and what a story it is! Born of a unwed mother(Sally Field),he overcomes a birth disorder to
become a champion runner, a college football star(at Alabama for
legendary coach Paul"Bear"Bryant!),a war hero in Vietnam,a champion
Ping Pong player and a successful entrepreneur. Along the way,he is
able to touch the lives(and one has to assume,IS touched by)of the
people who he works around and with,particularly his CO in 'Nam(Sinise
in arguably the most haunting performance of the show),his equally slow
bunk mate in the Army(Williamson,unfairly ignored for this
performance)and,of course,Jenny. But while Forrest leads a
Pangloss/Zelig type life through the turbulent period of time that
defined the Baby Boomer generation,he's still looking for the love that
Jenny seems so reluctant to give.To be real honest,the gild on this Lily for me has came off over the
years(I absolutely LOVED this film when I saw it in a crowded movie
theater on JUly 4th weekend,1994),partly due to the over-abundance of
publicity that this film received over the nearly seven months that it
was in first-run theatrical release. Also,I wasn't entirely convinced
that this movie deserved all the awards mantle ware that it received.
But I've seen this movie at least twice in its entirety and probably as
many as seven or eight times in bits and pieces,plus I own the VHS tape
and may someday want to get the DVD,so I feel like for the most
part,this film is still special to me. I think that's because of the
summary line:behind the stars,the big-time production,the awards,the
frills,the publicity(Bubba Gump cookbooks,T-Shirts,etc.),lies what can
be simply put as a Southern Tall tale,meant to enchant and inspire the
imagination,set to a period of time(namely,the Western world,circa 1946
to 1981)that is generally regarded as anything but inspirational or
enchanting. This film is for anyone who wants to believe in
larger-than-life tales set in the real world. An unforgettable
film,indeed.

******
28 December 2006
5
Robert Zemeckis has done a credible job with this morality play. Tom
Hanks portrays a dim-witted, but practical, man who has good luck on
his side.It is a story of a seemingly simple man, who has a great deal of
practical sense and his seemingly complicated life.The film is a character study not only of Hank's character, but, a
character study of the people in his orbit. The big influences in
Forrest Gump's life are is his mother and his best a friend, a girl who
suffered at the hands of an abusive father who lived on the edge and
eventually would have fallen off it had it not been for Forrest's
gentle spirit and his Vietnam War buddy, Bubba, also a slow-witted, but
kindly man who befriends Forrest and the two forge a solid friendship
in a short period of time. whereby its influences affect Forrest's life
long after Bubba's untimely death in Vietnam.Forrest deals with love, romantic, maternal and platonic, hate, warthe
effects such as Forrest meeting President Kennedy are pretty neat. In
dealing with life, Forrest deals with the complications of life in the
most practical matter and it serves him and those around him well.The film's message is rather simple, no matter what life brings to your
doorstep, there are only solutions, no problems.I personally liked the film, but, I do think the film is very
over-rated because those who are of politically correct mindset make a
large point of pointing out the morality play's message of hope. On a
scale of 1-10, 10 being a miracle, I give the film a solid 5.

******
2 November 2006
10
Don't talk about it! Just do it! "Stupid is as stupid does," says Forrest Gump (played by Tom Hanks in
an Oscar-winning performance) as he discusses his relative level of
intelligence with a stranger while waiting for a bus. Despite his
sub-normal IQ, Gump leads a truly charmed life, with a ringside seat
for many of the most memorable events of the second half of the 20th
century. Entirely without trying, Forrest teaches Elvis Presley to
dance, becomes a football star, meets John F. Kennedy, serves with
honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson, speaks at an anti-war rally at
the Washington Monument, hangs out with the Yippies, defeats the
Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard Nixon, discovers
the break-in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping business,
becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides to run
back and forth across the country for several years. Meanwhile, as the
remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets Jenny
(Robin Wright Penn), the girl he loved as a boy, who makes her own
journey through the turbulence of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more
troubled than the path Forrest happens upon. Featured alongside Tom
Hanks are Sally Field as Forrest's mother; Gary Sinise as his
commanding officer in Vietnam; Mykelti Williamson as his ill-fated Army
buddy who is familiar with every recipe that involves shrimp; and the
special effects artists whose digital magic place Forrest amidst a
remarkable array of historical events and people.Don't talk about it! Just do it!

******
31 October 2006
10
Forrest Gump is the compelling story of a person whose IQ is below 80
and still has a very successful life. Forrest was a kid with problems
growing up, and all the kids made fun of him, until they found out how
fast he could run. After that he gained some respect playing football,
for his high school football team.That's just where the adventure begins, his long and compelling story,
is one filled with drama, action, and a humorous line or moment every
here or there. There are hundreds of memorable lines that come form the
movie, like "Stupid is as Stupid does" or "Life is like a box of
chocolates you never know what you're going to get." The movie starts
Tom Hanks, Gary Sinise, and Sally Field, whom are really great actor,
who really have great chemistry together. Though one thing, Gary Sinise
had earlier worked with tom Hanks on the set of the movie, Apollo 13.
Sally Field is a long time actress, and delivers a great performance as
forests mother, in the movie.The movie has a lot of life's lessons wrapped up in one movie, it shows
that anyone, know matter how smart or stupid, can be a great person. In
the movie Forrest Gump, Forrest is that person. He gets to meet 3
presidents, play for his college football team, Join the army, Fight in
Vietnam, get a medal of Honor, make a lot of money, selling shrimp, and
really lived a successful life. He Got married to a childhood friend,
and even had a son. His life can be admired by anyone, as he actually
lived the history back then. This is what makes him successful. Most
people could have lived through those times, like most of our parents,
but most of our parents just lived through the times. Forest
experienced it first hand.Forrest (Tom Hanks) as a character had many things going for him. For
one thing he was a lovable character, whom you cans really connect
with. You can see all of his emotions, and all sides of his character
throughout the movie. You see him happy when he First meets Jenny
(Robin Wright). You seem him get angry when he Sees someone beating
jenny, you see him confused in Vietnam, and you see him confused. This
is part of what makes Forrest Gump, such a powerful movie The movie has
backgrounds to the book Forrest Gump, by Winston Groom. Though the two
have the same title, the book and the movie are like two different
tales of Forrest Gump. The book has more of his life playing foot ball,
and before the army, and the movie just focuses on his life as a whole.
Also the book doesn't have much of forests child life as the movie
does.The films director, Robert Zemeckis, does a super job bringing the
screen play to life. His interpretation of the screen play is very
well, and the camera angles he uses, with the real life scenarios,
bring the movie to life. The houses he used, and the sets for all the
locations, make it look like they were filmed there. Especially the New
York Scenes where forest attends to Lieutenant Dan (Gary Sinise).In total, Forrest Gump is a powerful film and really deserves the 6
academy awards it won. Though it says it's a comedy, its more a Drama,
with a funny scene here or there. Thus it deserves everything it has

******
23 October 2006
10
i believe that this is a great movie i grew up watching this movie i
could probably quote this movie by heart i loved this movie inspired me
to love movies i think this is one of the best movies i've seen i lost
track of how many times i've seen this movie i think this was tom
hank's best film with exception of Saving Private Ryan but still this
is great i think that even kids in this movie were great actors and
actresses i don't think that there is a better movie but it is a great
movie because it is combined with all types of movies thriller, comedy,
drama this movie is inspirational because it shows u that "life is a
box of chocolates you never know what your gonna' get"

******
26 August 2006
10
Many of you have heard of this movie.Many of you have seen this movie.
Forrest gump directed by Robert Zemeckis is a classic.Winner of 6 Oscar
awards including best picture,actor and director this movie takes you
to a dream.I have been big fan of Tom Hanks.I was eager of watching this movie
previously too but never got the chance.My friends who have seen it
before called it classic some called it slow.But yesterday finally i
watched it.Forrest Gump (Hanks), named after a civil war hero, grows up in
Greenbow, Alabama, where his mother (Sally Field) runs a boarding
house. Although Forrest is a little "slow" (his IQ is 75, 5 below the
state's definition of "normal"), his mental impairment doesn't seem to
bother him, his mother, or his best (and only) friend, Jenny Curran
(played as an adult by Robin Wright). In fact, the naivete that comes
through a limited understanding of the world around him gives Forrest a
uniquely positive perspective of life.During the next thirty years, Forrest becomes a star football player, a
war hero, a successful businessman, and something of a pop icon.
Through it all, however, there is one defining element in his life: his
love for Jenny. She is never far from his thoughts, no matter what he's
doing or where he is.Forrest gump is a masterpiece.A noble and beautiful story which touches
your heart.We hardly find any movies in Hollywood which being slow and
without special effects becomes blockbuster.Forrest Gump is among one
of those rare gems.There are movies and movies but only sometimes you find a movie which
stays in your heart and becomes one of your all time favourites.I have
to search for words how to describe such a magical movie.And finally Forrest Gump would have never been a forrest gump without
Tom Hanks.Playing the character of Forrest Gump he is incredible.His
performance was just out of the world.One of the best performances
given by any actor ever.I cant found out words to describe how great
his performance was.Just look at his expressions in the scene in end
when he says'I miss you Jenny..If there is anything you need i wont be
far away'.Totally unforgottable.Even stone hearted people would melt.I gave this review here cause i wanted all members to know how
beautiful and magical forrest gump is.A must watch for everyone
...........A timeless classic

******
10 August 2006
10
OK the Simple Facts about Forrest Gump are that it is by far, in my
opinion, the best film I've ever had the pleasure to watch. Definitely
Tom Hanks at his best, from the first line through to the last line its
an exciting adventure with unexpected twists. It can entertain all ages
of viewers. Fitting in with past events (e.g. the Veitnam War, JFK etc)
it makes the story so much more believable. The music, the settings,
the director, the actors and the actresses all combined make it a great
film. Definitely worth all the Academy awards it won. I will continue
to recommend this films to friends and family and continue to watch it
as well.

******
28 July 2006
10
I still can't believe that there were over 2000 votes that gave the
rating "1" to this movie. It's clear to me that those people don't have
a clue. Obviously, this movie is simply TOO GOOD for the masses to
understand, but still...i wonder... Doubtlessly, this is one of the
most valuable pieces of art in the history of mankind, hence i do not
expect many people to reckon its true value. But still...i thought that
mediocre people could at least think "yeah, this must be good...i don't
really understand it, but i have a feeling that it's good, so i'll just
give it a 9 so i can be cool (everybody would think that i'm smart and
i understood it)"...but...guess i was wrong. Honestly, i am sorry that
not everybody understands this film...if everybody could, the world
would be a much better place to live now...because there it is...the
meaning of life...right under your ignorant noses...(and the masses
would think: "what a showoff!"...yeah...i know...)

******
21 July 2006
10
Forest Gump is a movie which will have an impact on you every time you
watch it. First time when i watched this movie long time after it was
released i could not imagine that a movie can be even made like this.
Hats off to the director and to my favorite actor Tom Hanks.I had watched Tom hanks movies before watching Forest gump but he
became my favorite only after watching FG. His expressions are
immaculate,inimitable and mesmerizing. I don't believe that anyone who
has watched this movie says that this movie hasn't moved them a bit.
This movie will remain in my list of few top movies. Every time you
start to watch this movie, you always want to watch it until the end.
That is magic of this movie. You have to watch Forest gump to believe
these comments. You can be rest assured that the movie will match or
exceed your expectations.Harish Venkat

******
18 July 2006
10
This movie is special, and for one reason: Gary Sinise. Mr. Sinise's
performance as Lt. Dan is one of the great performances in U. S.
cinematic history. His poignant and powerful portrayal of a human being
wallowing helplessly in the deepest recesses of despair is uncanny. Lt.
Dan is the personification of suffering, of emotional desolation, of a
man who is bent on self-destruction but deep down still wants to
survive, still harboring a glimmer of hope that things may turn his
way, that he may attain salvation and a measure of happiness in a life
that has been ravaged by war. Because of Gary Sinise, Forrest Gump is a
great movie.

******
16 July 2006
10
The high school football scene was filmed with players from Patrick
Henry Academy, Estill, SC. The team was bussed to Beaufort and spent
the day being filmed. I think the school received a check for $2,500
for using the boys for the day and the boys got the thrill of being in
a movie. My law partner's son, McKenzie Solomons threw the ball shown in the
film and my son, Trip Lawton was one of the backs protecting the
quarterback. I've never seen any credit for the schools participation
in this great film classic. I noticed that USC's band got a credit for their participation. Does
anyone know the "rules" for credits in a film? I wouldn't think the
individual boys would have been named, but it does look like the school
would have been recognized for its contribution.

******
30 June 2006
10
Forrest Gump is one of those epic films, which .. like Donnie Darko is
not most exciting action film with amazingly skillful stunts etc, but
its got something special that nobody can take away from it, to stop
its being special. Tom Hanks is such an adaptable actor, ranging from a
relatively normal everyday role in "Splash" to his more intelligent and
formal role in "The Da Vinci Code" movie release. In FG, he inevitably
gives his best in the portrayal of Forrest, an individual whose IQ is
no greater than 75 - just over the borderline of appearing mentally
challenged. However, despite the fact that he has no real aspirations
in life, he does know one important thing, he loves Jenny and he enjoys
the simple things in life, mainly because he can understand and cherish
them more readily, and they are easily accessible too. He is a wholly
lovable character and the audience will remember this film for a long
time after first watching it. Watch it now. Mel x

******
25 June 2006
10
Anyone who has a problem with this movie on any level probably just
doesn't understand parables. Gump at it's basic is a fable about a man
who, although short on "intelligence" nonetheless has a degree of
common sense often absent in his intellectual superiors. Couple this
with his moral compass and the way the story always places him in
interesting situations and you have the canvas upon which this morality
play unfolds. Gump is simple, gentle and loving - but, interestingly,
he is not a wimp. He has courage of his convictions and does not
hesitate to use violence to defend those he loves. Amazing this came
from Hollywood. Refreshing.

******
24 June 2006
10
I felt this was one of the better movies coming out of Hollywood in a
long time. To me it represented everyone's point of view for the period
it portrayed. Its comical overtones were great. The drama shown was
hard hitting and to the point without a lot of senseless gore. Tom
Hanks did a tremendous job. Gary Sinese was excellent. Supporting cast
did a great job bringing out all the little nuances of "Dear Ole
Forrest Gump". The movie was a great piece of entertainment. One could
object to portions of the script but all in all it came across as good
entertainment. For those that don't think so, relax, try to look at it
again in a spirit of lightheartedness.Should have at least a 9.99 rating.

******
24 June 2006
10
"Forrest Gump" is a heart-warming and always enjoyable drama about a
little clueless Forrest (outstanding Tom Hanks) who thinks with his
heart, not with his head. And that is why the audiences love him so
much.I have seen this movie without a doubt hundreds's of times. It is so
sad and touching but it always gives me an extra optimistic boost.The movie is a journey that guides us trough the life of Forrest. We
visit Forrest's life from his Alabama childhood to presidential visit's
to Vietnam War all the way to his days of adulthood. The director
Robert Zemecis has directed this monumental piece with great sense of
humor and a touch of sensitivity.The story begins at a bus-stop where Forrest waits his bus to come and
while waiting he tells his amazing stories to any one who ever sit down
with him on the bench. Forrest has an interesting life. He had a
crooked back when he was a boy and had to have special metal-braces
attached to his legs. People are always teasing Forrest because of he
has low IQ. Fortunately he has a strong-minded mother (Sally Field) who
is behind his son when the world turns its back on him. He has also
Jenny (soulful Robin Wright, nowadays with Penn) as his best friend.
Forrest is in love with wild and troubled Jenny but she is hard to
tame. Later in his life Forrest meets some of America's most famous
people like three presidents (JFK, Lyndon Johnson and Richard
"Water-gate" Nixon), John Lennon, the king of rock'n'roll Elvis Presley
etc. Forrest becomes a football star, Vietnam hero, pin-ball champion,
famous enterprise owner and many more. Even he don't got the smarts he
still manages to get fame, fortune and respect. Nevertheless the most
important thing to Forrest is Jenny. Jenny is in his thoughts all the
time.The absolutely beautiful music composed by Alan Silvestri is
breath-taking. Additional music is a massive collection of 60's and
70's feast. Nothing can't beat the good old "Break on Trough" by The
Doors. I have also a copy of the unbelievable soundtrack.Robert Zemecis grabbed a subject that was and is still somewhat
forbidden matter in modern-day society. With these kind of abilities
and talent you can make a successful combination. And I don't
understand the people who bark on "Forrest Gump". Or that fact which is
suggesting that Tom Hanks didn't deserve to win the Oscar from his
marvelous lead character! You doubting Judases should make watch
"Forrest Gump" 24 hours in a row to convince you that you have been
seriously wrong..."Forrest Gump" is a timeless classic of the enduring love and finding
meaning in life. Everyone who enjoys great music and underdog stories
"Forrest Gump" is just right movie for you.Forrest: "What's my destiny, Mama?" Mrs.Gump: "You're gonna have to
figure it out for yourself."

******
17 June 2006
10
First of all, I'd like to say that I'm stunned that this movie has as
low of a score as it does. I think that's crazy, to be honest.This movie is awesome. Just plain awesome. If you think this movie is
terrible, you must be nuts! It's a heartwarming tale about a guy named
Forrest Gump and all the stuff that goes on in his life. Some might say
that it's a bit unrealistic, but you can say that about a lot of
movies. It's called 'suspension of disbelief'.I think this movie also documents history very well. That's one of the
things I liked about it. It's like a journey through time in a way.The acting and writing in 'Forrest Gump' are both top notch.I can honestly say that this is one of my favorite movies of all-time.
Heck, it might just be my absolute favorite of all-time. It's just that
good. Everything about 'Forrest Gump' seemed to hit perfectly on all
cylinders for me.Absolutely fantastic.

******
11 June 2006
10
Oneday, I was so sorrowful and I couldn't focus on anything because I
was on the line and everything I had was going bad then my friend
r&#351;t advised me that movie which is called '' Forrest Gump ''
then I decided to watch this movie. First of all, I put DVD on room
then I tried to focus on watching that film. Initially, I didn't
understand whats going on then i liked it gradually. This movie tell us
whatever you're in you can easily realize that you can overcome all of
problem you have. I mean, in that movie there is a man called Forrest
Gump who is very helpless person. But he is very willing and whatever
it happens he wants to do if he wants. he know that possible is
impossible. In other words, he believe that if people think whatever
they want, they can easily have whatever they want. There is a kind of
happiness theory which forrest gump has...

******
2 June 2006
10
"Forrest Gump," 1994's controversial and acclaimed Best Picture Oscar
winner and is itself adapted from the novel by Winston Groom, is the
simple story of a simple man and the not-so-simple world he is born
into. Tom Hanks is the title character, a Southerner with an IQ of 75,
who as a boy is handicapped by a crooked back and forced to wear leg
braces. Raised by his mother (Sally Field) to not let the world hold
him back, she does the regrettable and sleeps with a school's principal
to get him enrolled. His first days are hard-luck, but that changes
when he lays eyes on the beautiful Jenny, and the two become close
friends, even through high school, when she is now played by Robin
Wright Penn. Once graduating high school, Forrest is encouraged to go
to college, where he becomes a football star and is drafted into the
United States Army upon graduation. Forrest's limited intelligence to
the situation renders him blind to the Vietnam conflict, where his
service is guaranteed. He's unaware of the growing resentment towards
the war, but his heroic actions to save comrades including hardened
veteran Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise) and best friend Bubba (Mykelti
Williamson) during an ambush by the VC one day encourage a Medal of
Honor award. Thus, the world as we know it is seen through the eyes of
this simple man who leads an extraordinary journey through some of
America's roughest periods: the 1960s through the late '70s. All of
this is fickle to him, as his one true love Jenny continues to evade
him (even though they see one another sporadically over the years, and
their encounters are often very brief) and her life becomes increasing
less than pleasant. "Forrest Gump" is one of the best movies for a
reason: when all hell was breaking loose during radical times of
change, one man saw it as a little more than nothing. His unwitting
triumphs over the years - football star, war hero, Medal of Honor
recipient, White House honorary guest, millionaire businessman,
international Ping Pong champion, and ultimately, father - are
extraordinary to everybody else except him, simply because he's too
stupid to realize the significance of his actions. Directed by Robert
Zemeckis, everything about "Forrest Gump" is classic and beautiful.
From Hanks's brilliant and nuanced performance, to the Oscar-winning
special effects (the insertion of Hanks into archival media footage;
the digital erasure of Sinise's legs to make the audience believe he's
a real amputee) to the closing credits, it shines and will forever
remain shining as a modern American classic piece of cinema. Though
Forrest himself may not know it, he's found one of the greatest fans in
this writer. He's a true inspiration that nothing is impossible
regardless of one's intelligence. His message is that nothing can hold
you back except you. It's a dream come true from anyone's perspective.10/10

******
1 June 2006
10
This is probably the best movie in the 90's,unforgettable
scene,script,best music performance,famous quote,best actor...etc. I
wonder how they come up with a story so good as this, because it wasn't
a short movie for as long as I know, and every scenes and lines weren't
keep you bored from this long hours for watching Forrest Gump,and
although it's not a action movie or horror movies but because the story
was too good I couldn't even leave my seat. I think we should all learn about how to face our life from
difficulties from this movie!!!It's good to be simple, kind and hard
worked!!!

******
27 May 2006
10
There are few films that come along, that will capture your; heart,
mind and soul. This is one such film. There will never come a point
when I will ever grow tired of seeing this film, or when it will ever
not make me cry.Tom Hanks gives one of the best performances of his career as 'Forest
Gump'. This film centers around the life of one man, who's choices and
luck, bring the world circled around his life. Meeting the President of
the United States, solving crimes by accident, battling in the war in
Vietnam, finding true love, and touching people's lives.The movie takes place throughout ten or twelve years of a mentally slow
man's life, who has a way of moving, and touching your very heart.Robin Wright Penn also gives an outstanding performance, as Jenny,
Forest's true love.Sally Field also has a small part, playing Tom Hanks' mother, and does
a very comical and dramatic job.It's a film that will stay in the hearts of many, for years to come.

******
20 May 2006
10
I was stunned to see so many people spitting fury out here, against
this movie. I'm assuming that most of them are 'liberals' who are
offended by the 'conservative' message of the movie. I find it very
funny because I thought being a liberal meant ... well, being liberal.I must also admit that I'm not an American myself, and so may be
missing a lot of hidden messages from the film maker. But still, so
much hatred and anger is very surprising. That's why I found the film
so refreshing. The guy is so simple, uncomplicated and a pleasure to be
with. I speak from personal experience because someone very close to me
is retarded.

******
13 May 2006
10
I just REALLY saw this film for the 1st time in my US History Class
(technically my 2nd time, I saw it when it first came out in 1994 and
had no clue what it was about) and I must say it is the greatest movie
I've ever seen. Once the viewer has a full understanding of the
historical context of the movie, he/she can appreciate the ingenious
plot of this story, told through the eyes of a simplistic yet at the
same time complex individual. His relationship with Jenny as they part
ways and are then re-united is a love story that is emotionally
touching and moving. Everything about this movie deserves praise. It's
a shame IMDb only allows for 10/10 ratings.

******
14 April 2006
10
If there should be a movie for you to remember in a lifetime and to
learn everything about life when in confusion or when disappointed by
the surrounding world, it would definitely be Forrest Gump, which
speaks for an optimistic and innocent outlook on life whatever seems
bothering happened around. On the contrary the "clever" people live
every day under pressure or feeling of loneliness, longing for the age
of innocence, singing "yesterday, all my trouble seems so far away...",
when Forrest says "life is like a box of chocolates, you never know
what you're gonna get" and steadily moves on,achieving the true meaning
of life. Besides, I was deeply moved by three scenes in this
masterpiece,which I'd like to share. The first is Forrest's shouting "I
want Bubba!" The second is when Forrest asked his dying mother about
his destiny, and she for the last time said "life is like a box of
chocolates, Forrest, you never know what you're gonna get." And the
third, also the most touching scene occurs when AIDS-infected Jenny
said to Forrest: I wish I could have been with you then" and the answer
came from Forrest as "You were." Most unexpected and powerful. All in
all, Forrest Gump is one of my favourite of all time, and I would
commend it to everybody.

******
7 April 2006
10
Every once in a while, something comes along that hasn't been done
before. This movie is one of those things. First of all, we have a
principal character whose take on life is one where you don't judge it;
you live it. I know he's a film character. It doesn't matter because we
use images such as these to inspire us and to give us our own way of
treating each day. Forrest lets no grass grow under his feet. He is the
consummate optimist. He doesn't complain because he sees early on that
it does you no good. His life is one adventure after another, in and
out of the public eye, but his shyness and demeanor don't ever get to
his head. He is the epitome of patience, something sadly lacking in the
lives of most Americans. He is pushed around by the gusts of time and
always lands on his feet. His relationship with a troubled girl is the
one consistent thing in his life, and that is also shows his
pugnaciousness. There are some commentators and reviewers who call this
character stupid. He is a slow processor, but his stability lies in his
morality and his consistency. His mother raised him well.Tom Hanks has become our new Jimmy Stewart. His roles are about human
emotion and dedication. He is the everyman in many ways. Obviously, the
subject matter has changed, but you can bank on his decision making
when it comes to film. The other heroes are the special effects people. They are able to make
this work; to create an incredible world for him to function within.
The news clips are quite marvelous. I usually put this film in my top
ten.

******
27 February 2006
8
The film follows the life of low-IQ Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), as he
falls in love with Jenny (Robin Wright), makes two friends while in the
army in Lieutenant Dan and Bubba (Gary Sinise and Mykelti Williamson),
attends college, fights in Vietnam, and seemingly by happenstance meets
up with Elvis Presley, John F Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Richard Nixon,
and Governor George Wallace. Forrest goes on to become a very wealthy
and extremely successful businessman. Though the scenery changes, there
is one thing that remains the same through the entire movie: Forrest
will always fight for his Jenny and try to save her from whatever
trouble she is currently in.In this comedy/drama, Forrest keeps his good sense about him, using his
mother's sayings and advice as cornerstones of his ethics. When asked
if he is stupid, Forrest will always reply with: "Momma always says
stupid is as stupid does." Although his IQ is only 75, which we are
told is five points below the public school systems' definition of
"normal," he makes very intelligent decisions throughout the film.
Director Robert Zemeckis gives viewers a glimpse at the most important
events of the 1950s through the 1980s through Gump's eyes, where we
must take things as he sees them. Gump's simple talent of running
quickly takes him to many different places and makes him an icon to
many American people.Zemeckis does an excellent job with the special effects. Although the
video clips are not seamless, they do a great job of putting Gump into
the history which viewers already know. Forrest is at the door of the
schoolhouse when Governor George Wallace tries to stop desegregation,
and actually gives a young black woman a book that she has dropped. The
viewer can actually see Gump meet and greet three American presidents,
one of which he shows a bullet wound to his "butt-ocks." Although Gump
is too good a man to dabble in drugs and rock and roll, we still
visualize what is going on in the counterculture, where Jenny is at
home at the rallies and through the disco era. And, because Forrest and
Jenny are complete opposites, we get to see every aspect of culture
from the 1950s through the 1980s. No matter what viewers are looking
for in a movie, "Forrest Gump" promises a good show.

******
8 February 2006
10
This is without a doubt one of my best films of all time. It's just a
masterpiece to behold in my eyes and i'll tell you why: The acting is
superb, Tom hanks really is Forrest Gump in this film to every minute
detail. Right from the slow fumbling characteristics of Forrest to the
superb southern accent which he employs with such energy and humour
makes excellent viewing. Robin Wright Penn is also sensational in this
film. She just brings tears to my eyes her final scene. She really
comes of ' age ' in this film. She portrays every painful experience of
Jenny in such depth but equally can highlight on the more peaceful and
content side of the troubled girl. Finally Sally Fields is class
through and through in this film. She's such a dominant actress on
screen and she always delivers. Her line to Forrest when she's on her
deathbed is so poignant and heartbreaking. ' I will miss you Forrest '.
It just was spellbinding to watch such great actors come together in
this film. Absolutely superb.Finally, the use of historical events and the way they fit around
Forest is just superb, i've never seen anything so creative and
intuitive. From John Lennon, Elvis, Nixon and Lennon, this really
establishes an almost reality that Forrest Gump is a influential part
of American society.My final words are WATCH THIS FILM!! This is truly cinema at its best.

******
7 February 2006
10
Forrest Gump, born in the 1940s, has a limited intelligence, but an
unlimited heart. By following his heart he accidentally became
successful : he managed to go to college because he could run fast and
was dragged into playing football, go to the Vietnam war, meet John F.
Kennedy, win Ping Pong championship in China, become rich by fishing
shrimps and buying stocks from the Microsoft company. Yet all that time
he didn't care about that at all. He only wanted to gain the love from
his childhood love, Jenny. Evidently, she appears one day at his door
step, desperate for money Both Forrest Gump" and Being There" are ideologically identical films
which are dead set at proving one point: all you need in life is luck.
It's as simple as that. Both have retarded heroes that manage to become
successful in life just by being at the right time at the right place.
And both are great movies, although Being There" is unfortunately not
nearly as popular. Forrest Gump", winner of 6 Oscars and 3 Golden
Globes, is an extremely emotional roller-coaster with an tremendously
naive and gentle hero that you just can't have the heart to hate. Such
sequences, like the one where the 10-year old Forrest started running
for the first time in his life, breaking those metal braces for his
legs he had to wear because he couldn't walk properly, were so magical
they sent shivers down my spine.--------------- Robert Zemeckis directs the story in a form of a vivid fairytale, not
always managing to keep it logical ( would Forrest's mom really let her
son go to the Vietnam war? Could Forrest really run from the east coast
of the USA to the west coast? ) or consistent ( stiff ending, and come
to think of it, Bill Murray would have been much better as Forrest Gump
), but still letting the positive opinion prevail, and even cleverly
playing with history, stating how small often inspire the big ( like
when Forrest met John Lennon in a talk show and caused him to say the
words like Imagine all those people", No religion too?". We all knew
where that was going ). Many have criticized this film, calling it too
pathetic, racist and even politically dubious, but I don't share that
opinion. After seeing it I was left amazed, and that's the only thing
that matters. Forrest Gump" is together with Schindler's List",
Groundhog Day", Dances with Volwes", Rushmore" and Saving Private
Ryan" one of the best films of the 90s. And yet I still can't shake
that feeling away that Being There" should get more credit for the
success of this film.Grade: 10/10

******
31 December 2005
10
No doubt about it this is a Wonderful movie. This is my favorite movie
of all time. You see the main point of this movie was the amazing story
of a young man who cared about only three things. His momma, Jenny, and
God. Without those three things he wasn't Forest Gump. Forest teaches
the values of being a person. He teaches u that you can achieve so much
in life even with a low IQ. What makes this movie so amazing is that he
accidentally occurred in big events in U.S. history. And he didn't even
know it. That is my favorite part of the whole movie. I believe Forest
Gump changed a lot of us in so many ways you can't even explain. After
watching this movie I feel so good inside and appreciate life more than
I already do. That's what Forest Gump did.

******
18 December 2005
8
Until it was recently shown on TBS, I had forgotten how much I loved
this film. As a history buff and daughter of a Vietnam vet, I
originally watched this film as a 14-year old girl. I loved so many
aspects of the film, and could only being to appreciate the sacrifice
my daddy had made Watching it as an adult brought me to tears.
Regardless of how one may have felt as a viewer, and regardless of the
The complexity of the politic brought to life the many complex emotions
associated with the Vietnam war. No matter what our feelings may be
about our current war, it is about time that the Vietnam vets earn
their just rewards.A wonderful, moving film based on themes, regardless of political
position.

******
14 December 2005
10
**** Tom Hanks, Gary Sinise, Robin Wright, Sally Fields, Mykelti
Williamsin. Directed by Robert Zemeckis. Zemeckis again takes you to a
magical world of heart warming devotion and true human spirit as
Forrest Gump (Gentle Hanks) a slightly gifted man sees the world
through one magical experience after another.Through the heart of
Vietnam with Lt. Dan (Shining Sinise) and around the world to his
teenage sweetheart Jenny (Wright). Hanks leading this ensemble cast
that is one of the 90's greatest films and one of the most devoted
films and brilliantly written by Eric Roth based on the novel by
Winston Groom. Of course in the creative mind of Zemeckis the movie was
bound for greatness, and showing a Tim Burton like creativity
escalating to six academy awards (Best Picture non the less). My final
rating 10/10

******
13 December 2005
10
To the person who mentioned the Zen of Forrest Gump: the feather at the
beginning says it all, doesn't it?! You may notice that ALL movies are
zen, but the ones with the clearest message are the most successful.
(The fact that there are more and more types of movie awards each year
attests to this fact.) There is so much more to this if you wish to
seek it; though like Forrest, you'll eventually find it right where you
are! Apparently I need more lines here to get this message posted. How
about some book titles (forgive me that I may not remember exact
titles, authors for each, or correct spelling of names): "Everyday
Mind" (a real box of chocolates, my friend!), "Zen Mind, Beginner's
Mind" by Shunryu Suzuki, "An Introduction to Zen Buddhism" by D.T.
Suzuki, "Way of the Peaceful Warrior" by Dan Millman (for the athletes
out there), anything by Thich Nhat Hahn. Dogen is pretty good, though
it may be murky at first. Skip the Hakuin until you're ready. He's pure
poison! You can find many more for yourself!

******
23 October 2005
10
This movie might be simple to some people, and somehow it is. But there
are so many layers in that movie that it's ones approach that sets the
level of simplicity. To me making' a movie like that is simply clever
and somehow stunning, and the acting of Mr. Hanks must place him in a
league of his own. Despite the thoughtfully screenplay the real
strength of this movie is the basic points, and the way it touches
fundamental issues like life, death, irony of fate, destiny (or none!).
This combination of topics, the way it's delivered and the historical
view as well touches very deep. I've seen this movie about five times
and it touches me deeply every time, this is a masterpiece that no one
should miss.

******
15 October 2005
9
this is one of the best movies ever made. it is completely re watchable
and its amazing every time. it also has the best soundtrack of any
movie ever. i love the way it is filmed. the historical content also
make this a grand example of truly great cinema and just what a good
writer, director, and cast can do when they work together and bring
something to the world. i cant even contain my excitement for this
movie and write a coherent post. its great its wonderful. see it over
and over and over. i really think that tom hanks and Gary sinese make
one of the most unexpected but best duet in a film of all time. they
are both brilliant men and work together seamlessly to create a
cohesive and magnificent story of two men with different handicaps and
the same problems, discrimination, the belief that they cant do it, and
the problem of how to prove that they can do it. hanks carries the role
of forest excellently just was he does later on in the castaway he
seems to have limited dialouge that would control his acting ability
but he finds so many other way to get around that and show you the real
forest. see this movie again.

******
6 October 2005
10
It you like poetry and philosophy,i assure you will like this
movie.Forrest's being son,lover,friend,husband and father,it summarizes
the whole essence of life.The movie is narrated like poem with touch of
philosophy.Probably the only little boring part of movie is the
reference of American history during Forrest's life.Tom Hanks has done
good justice to his role dedicatedly.His narration is good in the
movie.The most interesting and unique part of the movie is Forrest's
innocence,which is the backbone and admiral part of this story.Its an
different feeling you will get after watching the movie,evethough the
movie is a bit emotional and sentimental,which is inevitable part of
human life.

******
27 September 2005
10
I still remember the first time I watched this movie and I have now
seen it 10 times. I can even watch it tomorrow again. Why? Because it
is one of the only movies I know that presents life in its most basic,
positive form: about love, persistence, commitment and integrity.Forrest is a simple but very honest and loving individual. The
strengths of his character are so numerous that I can only hope that my
son will end up with half of them. I like the way he continues to love
Jenny despite her character flaws; how he stands by his friend Bubba
and follows their joint dream even though Bubba cannot; and always sees
the good in every event of his life.This is one of those movies that indeed brings a lump to your throat
and a tear to your eye (more than once for both) but it is also a movie
that says: "Yes an honest, persistent yet humble life is great".

******
25 September 2005
10
Move over godfather. Forrest Gump is the greatest movie ever. Its a
brilliant movie.No words can describe the movie.Tom Hanks is
outstanding. I have seen it over 7 times. I cant help crying when tom
visits Jennys grave in the end. i always love to hate Robin because he
loves her so much nd she is so screwed up to marry him nd live happily
ever after. tom hanks rules .I keep wondering that robin wright
probably dies of AIDS because she is on drugs and keeps having sex with
every tom , dick and harry. So probably even Haley Joel Osment has AIDS
and then he will die later. So our man tom will be sad again. I need a
better ending. I just love the movie. Even my cousin Ebu loves the
movie. You who has not seen the great movie yet, you are definitely
missing a magnum opus.

******
16 September 2005
10
Forrest Gump is a wonderful told movie about a young boy being raised
by his mother. Growing up handicapped, and living in Alabama is
different then most kids. Tom Hanks is by favorite actor, and I believe
FORREST GUMP is one of his best roles. Forrest Gump is my favorite
movie of all time. I love that movie to death. Alongside, I Am Sam,
John Q, and Where the Heart Is. Forrest Gump is a great movie to show
your kids, your family, and everyone closest to you. I give this movie
a wonderful thumbs up. Tom Hanks, Sally Field, Robin Wright, and Gary
Sinise star as an amazing cast in this film. No one could replace them.
I think Forrest Gump should be in everyone's top 10 Favorite movies of
all time. If you haven't seen Forrest Gump by now, I don't know what
your missing. This is one of Tom Hanks best. If you love Tom Hanks, and
you love drama. See FORREST GUMP. One of the best movies in the whole
wide world.*ANTHONY

******
14 September 2005
10
This movie contains everything one could desire, and more: 1. A
congenial main character main character one simply has to love 2. An
entertaining lesson in American history 3. A beautifully casted, still
not too sentimental love story 4. A multi-layered storyline, keeping
the movie interesting even after viewing it a few times 5. A
heart-warming story, where I cannot help to shed tears 6. One of the
best movie soundtracks ever 7. An optimistic and positive outlook even
in the most difficult circumstances. 8. Some simply yet smart quotes to
be remembered. 9. Beautiful photos and shots, with smart use of
computer editing. 10. All this makes it one of my all time favorites,
and at least a 10!

******
5 September 2005
10
RUN FORREST RUN!! will always remain the catchphrase for this movie. We
all know he ran like a maniac and when he went, he went and he did not
stop at all. But the film is not only about the running scenes; it is
the world according to Gump and it's a hell of a world out there.Alabama born, low IQ, Jenny/mama loving and running man, young
protagonist Forrest Gump just lives an ordinary life. He doesn't know
what is going on; he lives his life to his fullest. But, along the way,
he has some natural experiences that impact his life; you can see
bullies tormenting him, him meeting Jenny, Bubba and Lt. Dan, his
experiences in Vietnam, saving all his fellow soldiers including Lt.
Dan, fulfilling Bubba's dream when he becomes shrimp captain of his
boat, when he played ping-pong, when he met President Kennedy, Johnson
and Nixon, when he got a Medal of Honor, his adventures with Lt. Dan,
his mama's advice and of course his love for Jenny. This film will
remain a masterpiece, not only for the running scenes, but for the true
humanity Forrest has in himself.Tom Hanks gives another fine performance (second to Philadelphia) as
Forrest, showing us that even retards can have some value in the world
and truly deserving his second Oscar. The supporting cast is excellent;
Gary Sinise with his breakthrough Oscar-nominated role as Lt. Dan, 2
time Oscar winner Sally Field as his mother, Mykelti Williamson (also
another breakthrough performance) as Bubba, and of course Robin Wright
Penn as Jenny, Forrest Gump's love who eludes him for many years until
the end. This film proves that care will help find one's destiny. And
Forrest does exactly that; he cares for everybody; he has no enemies
and he eventually achieves his destiny as just being himself. As the usual fan I am of Tom Hanks, I recommend this movie to everyone
and rank it a 10/10! MUST WATCH!

******
9 August 2005
10
Goodness gracious, I discovered that I hadn't commented on this movie
yet! Well, it's to be rectified.Forrest Gump was an absolute favorite of mine for several years, it
still ranks among the top ten movies of all time. It is brilliant, a
true gem that will undoubtedly become a classic. It already IS a
classic, actually. At least in my book.Though it differs from the book - or should I say it has nothing to do
with the book by Winston Groom at all except for the name Forrest Gump
and ping-pong - it has an almost literary quality to it: it's the kind
of epic and insane saga one can find in one. The life and adventures of
Forrest Gump are a modern equivalent of Munchausen, but this time
around, the liar tells the truth. Forrest Gump is a perfect human
being, a bit on the slow side, I'll admit - but he is honest, he is
righteous and he never wants to do anyone any harm.This film is also a meandering look at modern American history, it's
politics and society, and the distance that Forrest himself sets
between the events and actually understanding them is the kind of
distance we all feel sometimes - or want to feel more often. His
ability to walk away unscathed from any happening is one I sure would
like to have.I short put, this film is one I will remember for the rest of my life.

******
8 August 2005
10
Looking for Action? Or how about a little romance? Or maybe you like
sports films? Maybe you like all of these? Well if you like any of
these you are in luck! Forrest Gump, winner of 6 Oscars, including best
picture, and best actor (Tom Hanks!), is a great film that can be
enjoyed by anyone. Forrest Gump, seen on several American historical
occasions (and causing a few of them), is a man of slower wit, but with
a glowing heart, where throughout this entire film he relies on, so he
can get through a large complex world, and care for his loving friend,
Jenny. Along the way earning fame, hope, glory, riches, and deep
hearted caring friends, Forrest Gump sets you up for a masterpiece of
theater that will live out a long name in the film industry for many
years.Although Gump has been getting a name for being Right-Wing biased, it
was not meant to be a political movie, but a movie about following your
heart, and living out destiny, and MUST not be disgraced with a vulgar
thing like politics.

******
2 August 2005
10
The humorous, but yet heartwarming tale of a man named Forrest Gump(Tom
Hanks) who tells the story of his life to random people waiting for the
bus. Forrest Gump, who has an IQ of 75, lived the life that can only be
imagined but yet still finds his greatest joy with his childhood friend
Jenny(Robin Wright Penn).The movie is breathtaking! Tom Hanks gives his greatest performance of
all time(better than Philadelphia) and the supporting cast of Robin
Wright Penn and Gary Sinise is wonderful. The movie captures various
major aspects of life from the 60s to 90s with great visual effects and
hilarious comedy. What seems to have been overlooked in the movie that
really makes it even better, is the great camera shots. The movie has
some of the best camera shots since Lawrence of Arabia. The scene with
Forrest looking at where Jenny was sleeping that night with the milk in
his hand was just visual bliss! Overall, the instant classic is
absolutely great in multiple ways.I highly recommend this movie.

******
17 July 2005
9
When I first saw that movie I knew that I must see it again and when I
saw it again I knew that I must see it again and when I saw it again I
knew that I must see it again and since the last time I saw it I'm
waiting to the time I see it again! Of course the story is practically
impossible! Or may be not!! But the message in the movie is too strong
to neglect or to ignore, the amazing actor "Tom Hanks", who proved by
this movie that he is not just an actor but he's one of the best actors
in the history and that's for sure and he proved that too in "Cast
Away", and "Saving Private Ryan", and all his other movies.A simple message through the movie saying "Whoever you are, whatever
you are and wherever you are; you can do anything"!! I'll always
remember the words saying "Run Forrest, run..."!!

******
16 July 2005
10
"Forrest Gump" should have a higher rating than 10! It is cleverly
written and Tom Hanks plays his part really well.. I don't see why some
people hate it! Why else did it win 6 Oscars? Yes, 6!! This movie shows
that even if you don't have a plan in life, it'll always turn out how
it was intended by someone else (i.e God). It also shows that just
because someone is stupid - it doesn't mean they don't have feelings..
This is shown when Forrest falls in love with jenny. I totally
recommend this movie to anyone; it has romance, comedy, sadness and
happy times - all in one! What more could you want? Every single part
of this film is enjoyable - one minute its sad and brings a tear to
your eye - the next you're rolling on the floor with laughter!

******
4 July 2005
10
This film is one of the best films ever. Its about a guy(male) called
Forrest Gump and he had so called braces on his legs,he wasn't very
good at making friends but there was a girl called jenny who was indeed
very friendly who said "you can sit here if ya want" which i found very
sweet.In one bit of the film it showed young Forrest and jenny kinda
bonding and teaching each other things. Somes parts of the film were
very emotional(sad) but mostly i cried of happiness.Great film to watch
i also recommend "rain man and one flew over the cuckoo's nest". So if
your reading right NOW go watch Forrest Gump!! I also recommend these
Tom Hank films.......the terminal cast away the green mile Road to Perdition Saving Private
Ryan and he dose a good job as woody in toy story 1 & 2.

******
10 June 2005
10
I adore this film.Hanks makes forest come to life as though,there is
forest out there right now. I love how it starts and ends at the bench
by the bus stop.This is a film that will make you both cry with
laughter and cry with tears. forest has to be most convincing character
ever made in film. Every time this film comes on TV i always watch
it.Its the most inspiring,loving and beautiful film ever made about one
American mans life.I don't every think that any one else could take on
the role of forest other than Tom Hanks.for anyone who has not seen the
film,i would recommend that you go out and rent it from the video/DVD
shop now.

******
9 June 2005
6
First I thought this was an American remake of Run Lola Run, but it
turns out to be a completely different movie.Forrest is an Anthropomorphic Personification of America, he gets
involved in everything from war to business, ping pong to peace
protests. But he is a little bit slow, so he is an innocent.Is this how America sees itself, an innocent, making itself through the
world? Possibly. Interestingly this movie is incredibly popular in
China, maybe for the same reason.It is an entertaining movie, showing the history of America, not
through the eyes of important people, but ordinary people. Forrest is
the person you see in the TV footage gaping at important events,
getting to go all sort of places without any plan or idea of where he
is going.The music is perhaps a little bit too laboured, with 20 songs for every
time period, and some little scenes having multiple songs.So Run Forrest Run......

******
4 June 2005
10
Story: Forrest Gump is not very smart. He is just little simple man.
Forrest just collision in important moment and meet people USA history
from 1950s to 1980s. And he fall in love girl named Jenny in his first
ride for school. In time Forrest graduate school playing football and
goes to Vietham. He become war hero. He just loves run lot...My Review: Forrest Gump is one of best movies ever made in Hollywood.
It's have kind of special warm & emotion feeling in whole movie. I have
watched this movie over 30 times and till watched again again. Truly
Tom Hanks deserve Oscar this remarkable role, which is his till best
role. ILM did good job making clip which Forrest Gump meet like JFK or
John Lennon...

******
1 June 2005
10
From start to finish this movie will make you laugh to you cry. Tom
Hanks is superb as Forest Gump. He is supported by a cast that pops in
and out of the scenes with unforgettable performances. As the movie
begins you think of Forrest Gump as simple country boy who is lacking
the intelligence to ever be more than a footnote to the human race. As
the movie progresses you find Forrest excelling in every endeavor but
public speaking and common sense. He seems almost autistic in his
endeavors. By the time the movie reaches its end realizing Forrest Gump
is not a smart man is not difficult, but his character gives us much
insight into why people, although not having a high IQ, can still make
important contributions to society... Forrest Gump obviously was never
at the many significant events that were the fabric of the movie but by
movies end you'll wish he had been... life would definitely have been
more interesting. I gave the movie a 10 not because the movie was
great, I rated it a 10 because it is great fun for the entire family!

******
30 May 2005
10
This movie was very impressing, although it lasts 2h 10 minutes I can
say that is very short. It is that kind of movie that you wish that
never end. I didn't thought that a movie 10 years old can surprise me
so hard. I must say that later after I saw it, I remained with a state
of spirit very melancholic. And at the end I almost cried. It have a
very good story, a very good acting and hero make impression in any
situation though sometimes he put himself in a laughable position. So
you can follow the life of the character in a very original way, like
he is telling his life story on a bench to a person, and on the measure
we are running into the movie the listeners are leaving but another
takes his place. And I must say that the soundtrack of this movie is
really hot. Must acquire it. I recommend this movie and those who vote
that lower marks are big dummies.

******
20 May 2005
10
"Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you are going to
get." Regardless of whether you believe it or not, it is certainly true
in Forrest Gump's case. This movie gives us a complicated adventure
story, which happened to a so-called stupid person and the simple
spirit he had. Sometimes, simplicity is far better than complexity.Forrest Gump, played by Tom Hanks, begins by sitting on a bench,
telling strangers his stories, which for them are too amazing to be
believed. He fights in the war, becomes a table tennis champion and
meets the president. Forrest Gump is so down-to-earth. Actually,
Sincerity helps him win everyone's heart. Speaking of sincerity, you
can totally feel it throughout the movie. But it is dying away to some
extent in our real life. The spirit of this movie always inspires me
and makes me feel good.Another impressive part I want to mention is the best performance of
all the cast, plus magnificent music with a perfect picture. My
favorite part is at the beginning of the movie, when a white feather is
floating in the air, with lovely background music, oh, you just can't
wait to see it.If you really want to choose a movie to enjoy, not just see, don't miss
Forrest Gump.

******
16 May 2005
8
Forrest Gump still ranks among the top fifteen box office hits of all
time in America, taking in over $329 million. The movie follows the
journey of a slow man who gains glory and fame in a diverse and
sometimes turbulent era in history. Forrest often doesn't realize the
significant impact he makes on some of the most influential people in
America. His true love, Jenny, represents the typical youth during that
time, and constantly eludes him. They eventually marry and have a son
together, but their family life is cut short when Jenny becomes
suddenly ill and dies. Forrest lived a full life, inspiring those
around him in many ways. As Forrest said, "I might not be a smart man,
but I know what love is." The audience connects with his character,
experiencing life through Forrest's eyes. The film won six Academy
Awards including Best Picture and Best Director and is rightly
considered an epic in American culture.

******
7 April 2005
7
First of all if you don't want to read a review from a 12 year old girl
don't read it.Forrest Gump touched my heart dearly when i first watched it after 8
years. It made me understand about what happened back in the 70's- 90's
and it amazed me. Mostly i loved Forrest, Lt. Dan,and Buba(although
he's was in the movie for a short time). I'll list why i like each of
these characters Forrest: He reminds me of my Mildly Autisic brother and reminds me of
the kids i go to Special ED. with. He is a confused man and he narrates
the story very well. He makes me laugh and cry with some of his stories
of what he dealt in his life.Lt. Dan: He just grew on me when i first saw him and also his lack of
belief in Jesus and i feel it too since i hate going to CCD. Not a very
good reason Buba: When i first saw him on the army bus he made me smile also not a
good reason.Other than that i give this movie 7 out of 10 stars for a great
imaginative movie

******
12 March 2005
9
If you are looking for an inspiration in form of a movie, Forrest Gump
is the one you have got to watch. It inspires you to work ahead when
the odds are stacked against you and one day you will conquer the
world. It is useless to check out the verity of the incidents that have
been mentioned in the movie, I think movie is about giving a message to
oneself about the virtues of being good and everything good will happen
to you. Tom Hanks is simply mind blowing in a movie which in essence
leaves a tinge of positive energy within you. This movie and Tom Hanks
deserve every bit of acclaim they have got through this movie. The
story is told in a way which teaches you a lesson of humility, even
though so many things happen to him he stays the same soft-spoken,
reluctant, Forrest he used to be during his childhood. And this movie
is not all about lessons, it is an emotion filled journey of a person
who faces adversity and comes out with flying colors out of those
adversities and as the caption tells us "World will never be the same
once you see through the eyes of Forrest Gump". Well i think if a
person after seeing this movie, wants to be like Forrest Gump then i
guess the purpose of the movie has been served

******
4 March 2005
9
Forrest Gump is about a man with the name of the title who is played by
Tom Hanks. Forrest's only problem is the fact that his I.Q. isn't up to
par with most of America. But that doesn't stop him from taking part in
some of the greatest moments of the USA. He just might not know that
he's doing it.We begin the story with a great musical score. It really sets the mood
for what we're about to experience. We then see Forrest sitting on a
bench. He begins to talk to the people that sit down next to him. The
audience hears the story and begins to realize that, even with a low
level of intelligence, this is an extraordinary man who has a lot of
important things to say.He even goes into detail about the love of his life, Jenny (Robin
Wright Penn). Forrest explains to the other bench sitters that he never
got the chance to really understand his relationship with her until
later in his life.With a character like Forrest Gump, who needs the other ones in the
film. But the actors who do play those other roles are so good, that we
even get to sympathize for them as well. That's what makes this film so
good and that's the reason why it has become so popular. We care for
the characters and we can really relate to them. This film is a great
example of what life was like for the baby boomer era, but without the
low I.Q.The film ended up winning six Academy Awards, including Picture,
Director, Actor, Adapted Screenplay, Editing, and Visual Effects. It
was nominated for seven other Oscars, including Supporting Actor (Gary
Sinise in an incredible role), Art-Direction, Cinematography, Sound
Effects Editing, Make-up, Original Score, and Sound.

******
10 February 2005
10
forrest gump is exactly the reason why every time movie audiences
around the world go to watch the movies in theater, to be captivated by
range of spellbinding emotions through the movies characters no matter
the real or fiction it should be movie magic. And what some of the most
intelligent characters to hit the silver screen could'not do or provide
for years this local idiot gave it all in two and a half hours time
span. Forrest gump is a person who is a work of a fiction and this
biofiction will take u to the course of some of American histories most
important and noted event through this fictional person without even
letting u feel that this as all fake and sometime makes us feel he
really is for real and may be alive in alabama's greenbow county.this
movie is for everyone to watch. I feel also that the reason everyone
loved the America through the eyes of the forrest gump and also forrest
gump himself is because of the innocence of the character and of his
innocent way of viewing the history of America which through our eyes
world over does not look anything near to innocent.

******
16 January 2005
8
I just watched Forrest Gump tonight for the first time in a long time.
It is one of the saddest movies ever.It's just an amazing movie, and its power comes from the titular
character. What makes it so powerful is that Forrest has little
comprehension of just how lucky he is. Being as "slow" as he is, he has
no need for, or probably has never felt complex human emotion.
Everything he feels is simple but true, which makes his journey so
touching.Watching this movie will have an effect on you; it'll make you assess
your station in life and maybe it'll push you to define yourself and
your role in existence.Definitely see this if you haven't yet. And bring some Kleenex.

******
15 January 2005
10
What a movie. I remember the first time I saw it with my family and
myself and my mum cried, but it was such a great, powerful and deeply
moving film. The script, acting, directing, music, effects and every
other aspect are outstanding. The key to this film though here is
Hanks. I do not believe any other actor in the world could have played
the part as well as he did. He really is one of the best actors around
these days. People keep on saying that this movie mugged Shawshank
Redmption at the Oscars, which is very unfair because although that is
also one of my favourite films, this just about overtook it for me. The
script by Eric Roth and Hanks's acting here for me do by a small amount
outdo Shawshank although many will disagree. In fact I don't know how
earth Alan Silvestri's score didn't get an Oscar. It is probably one of
the best i've ever heard and The Lion King definitely didn't deserve it
i'm afraid. The same applies to Sinise's performance which also
deserved an Oscar. Anyway this film deserved its Oscars and is one of
the greatest films of all time.A classic. 10/10

******
23 December 2004
7
I remember the hype over this movie and the build up to the Oscars. I
too, got caught up in the "isn't this marvelous" stage, until I saw it
the third time -- well after the Oscars and Tom Hanks' win # 2. DO I
think he deserved it -- yes, but the movie itself doesn't stand up. The
movie itself is sweet but the historical edits -- and pure impossiblity
of the story doesn't help. The tone of the film isn't fantastical
enough to carry such a story -- it's too far in the realm of the real
to carry something as impossible, and this effect is far better
achieved in the book and in examples of films like "Big Fish." Overall,
the players are what make this film good. Never mind Hanks but Robin
Wright is perfectly understated as Jenny and Gary Sinise was my
personal favorite as Lt. Dan, but the story, direction tone and
absolutely horrific historical editing, prevent this movie from being
brilliant. In fact, should anyone ever consider this the best movie of
it's year? One might, until they see "The Shawshank Redemption."

******
25 November 2004
10
This is my favorite movie of ALL TIME. I don't understand why so many
people associate sentimentality with junk. Sentimentality is what makes
us human and what differentiates us from other species. Just because FG
revolves around a "dumb" protagonist, it doesn't mean that the movie is
"dumb." In fact, Forrest's emotional IQ is much higher than most
people's even though he is intellectually retarded. We can all learn
from Forrest that big brains don't guarantee happiness. He is stupid,
yes, but he is probably the happiest character in this film because of
all the complexities of life he is unable to understand.A perfect example: when Jenny tells FG he doesn't know what love is
when they're standing by the bridge. She later finds out she is the one
who doesn't "get it" (i.e. when Forrest asks her to marry him and says
"I am not a smart man but I know what love is." How can anyone NOT LIKE
this movie??

******
14 August 2004
10

This beautiful film was a window into life and love in many ways:
mother and son, friend to friend, romantic love, love of country,
paternal love, and finally love of self. Forrest, the main character,
is seemingly such a simple-minded man. He was thought to be stupid by
many around him, but through the choices Forrest makes, we see the
depth of his commitment to those around him and the unconditional love
that he offers to all. Forrest was not a brilliant man, but he was a
good man, a generous man, a man who made his world a better place just
by being himself. I have watched this film several times, and each time
I have found it to be an amazingly sensitive look at life.


******
29 July 2004
9

I first saw this movie when I was about 10 years old. I was at my
cousins house, and was not supposed to be watching it, due the the
violence. Although I did not fully understand what was going on, this
film made me cry. That says a lot. I don't cry in movies. Ever. I saw
this movie again when I was older (about 4 months ago) at the age of
14. To this day, me and my friend still quote it. It is amazing on so
many different levels.The love that Forrest has for Jenny, the way Forrest just kind of
ignored all those who said he wouldn't amount to anything because of
his low I.Q., how he remains so innocent through-out the movie. All
these things make this film different from the others. It puts it above
all them. This confirm's my belief that Tom Hanks is an amazing actor.
To portray someone who has a mental incapacity is a very difficult
thing to do, and if I did not know any better, I would think that Hanks
is not acting. The way this film is put together is moving, incredible,
and unbelievable, all at the same time.This movie could never be made over or covered, it would destroy it.
Because of the sheer beauty of this film, I give it 9/10


******
3 June 2004
10

I haven't any idea where to begin with this wonderful, beloved classic.
"Forrest Gump" ranks as my favorite film of all time, and for many, many
reasons. Everything about this beautiful fable is compelling, engrossing,
endearing, and absolutely classic. From its memorable "feather" opening
scene, we are instantly acquainted with the simple,remarkable story of a
simple,lovable man,wisked away into 
the eyes of Forrest Gump. We learn about individuality ("Don't ever let
anyone tell you you're different"), values ("Stupid is as stupid does"),love
("I'm not a smart man... But I love you"), and so many more honest,
appreciative qualities to life, all in the tale of a man who has experienced
life for everything it is worth, yet lacking the intellectual capacity to
conceive the significance of his life. The story takes us from the childhood
days of Forrest on his uncertain first ride to school, where he meets the
love of his life, Jenny ("I had never seen anything so beautiful in my life.
She was like an angel"), to his first ride of recruitment in the Vietnam
war, where he befriends his "best good friend" Bubba, to finally, taking his
own son, Forrest, to the busstop for his first day of school. The story has
been covered; now for my evaluative assessment. Everything in this film,
from the brilliant, sensible direction, to the incredibly touching Tom Hanks
as Forrest Gump, in perhaps the best performance in the history of cinema,
to the compassionate, understanding score, to the unforgettable screenplay
(As I write this review I am constantly tempted to quote a line from the
film), to the realistic visual effects (One would believe Forrest Gump had
actually existed with fame), to such delightful performances as Lieutenant
Dan, played hysterically by Gary Sinise, and etc. etc. etc. I cannot praise
this classic, unequaled, monumental film enough; suffice to say, everything
here is perfect, this film is excellent on practically every level, and I
have not stopped loving "Forrest Gump" since the first time I heard the
line, "Life is like a box of chocolates". This film is an absolute treasure
which shines more and more every time you watch it. **** out of ****


******
27 April 2004
8

This is a very good film with good performances and great direction. It
did
win a few Academy Awards including the Big ONE! But it went up against
Pulp
Fiction and Shawshank Redemption. I have seen all three of these films
many
times but I think that Pulp Fiction should have one but it was propbably a
little too original for most viewers. If not Pulp, I would have chosen
Shawshank to win. At least for adapted screenplay? The film still is very
well done and I think Zemeckis did an amazing job. Tarantino did deserve
the
Oscar though, but Zemeckis showed each era truthfully from what I have
read
and heard about. I have also heard that Terry Gilliam turned the film down
and that was probably a very good thing. Don't get me wrong, he is a very
good director but he would have ruined this movie. Overall, the film is
very
good, I would give it 8/10.

******
4 August 2003
9

American movies in the past few years are not as good as the movies
decades
of years ago.Maybe the directors pay too much attention to bringing the
modern technology to the film to create better scenery or sound
effect,while
they ignore the story itself ,which is the essence of one movie.Titanic is
one example.If you see through it,you will find it just such a simple
story
that  isn't worth your tears.How can it be compared with Casablanca or
even
Waterloo bridge?But Forrest Gump is an exception.It can make you laugh,and
make you sad.It just shows how a man grew,what he got and what he
lost.It's
plain but moving.And the music is also good.Some old music may remind you
of
the old days.All in all,it's perfect.

******
14 July 2003
9

Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) discusses his relative level of intelligence with a
stranger while waiting for a bus. Despite his subnormal IQ, Gump leads a
truly charmed life, with a ringside seat for many of the most memorable
events of the second half of the 20th century. Entirely without trying,
Forrest teaches Elvis Presley to dance, becomes a college football star,
meets John F. Kennedy, serves with honor in Vietnam, meets Lyndon Johnson,
speaks at an antiwar rally at the Washington Monument, hangs out with the
Yippies, defeats the Chinese national team in table tennis, meets Richard
Nixon, discovers the break in at the Watergate, opens a profitable shrimping
business, becomes an original investor in Apple Computers, and decides to
run back and forth across the country for several years. Meanwhile, as the
remarkable parade of his life goes by, Forrest never forgets his true love
Jenny (Robin Wright Penn), who makes her own journey through the turbulence
of the 1960s and 1970s that is far more troubled than the path Forrest
happens upon. Also included in this are Sally Field as Forrest's mother;
Gary Sinise as his commanding officer in Vietnam; Mykelti Williamson as his
ill-fated Army buddy who is familiar with every recipe were you can use
shrimp. Forrest Gump is an American classic, very interesting and awesome
story and a little better than the top 250 ranking it got.

******
7 July 2003
10

This is  probably the best movie i have ever seen. I have seen a lot of
movies, and have really studied films and would say to myself that the
best
movie would have to be the one that reaches out to me the
most.
Forrest Gump really touched me deeply. As it is truly a magical movie.
It
enhances minds to think that it can take the events of a simple individual
to make a difference in life.
In the movie, Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) experiences nearly thirty years
of
history. He had accomplished many things that many people cannot do. He is
a
hero, and nobody would forget him.
Academy award winner Tom Hanks, has out-done himself as a simple trying
to find the meaning of love, and helping out mankind. Nobody could have
done
it better than Tom.
Forrest Gump won Best Picture of 1994 at the Academy Awards. It was the
greatest movie ever made.

******
15 March 2003
7

Winning umpteen different Oscars in 1994 and constantly parodied, Forrest
Gump manages to live up to its `classic' status. Although it does become a
bit too manipulative and sometimes surreal in parts, it's also very witty
and joyfully nostalgic. Tom Hanks does the role of crippled hero Forrest Gump (the most parodied
character on the planet). He's ideal for the role but despite whoever takes
on the role, the character himself is very unconvincing. Gary Sinise is a
lot more convincing as a cynical Vietnam soldier. Sally Field (melodramatic
as usual) doesn't show us anything new but is good for the part nonetheless.
Robin Wright doesn't do much in the film, even though the plot kind of
revolves around her. A but more conviction would have been helpful.What the film is best for is its wonderful depiction of the rockin' 50's,
the swingin 60's and the sleazy 70's. This is accompanied by a soundtrack,
which is well suited to the times. However, the film falls way short on its
portrayal of the (glitzy?) 80's. The costumes, set designs and attitudes
seem very inappropriate and very little thought went into this part of the
movie. The other problem is the script. For the most part it is good but it
gets too inventive in some scenes and goes way too far. Some surrealism is
OK but having one man be involved in every major event in three decades is
crossing the line. Overall, `Forrest Gump' probably didn't deserve to win the Oscar for Best
Picture, but if you put all of the evident flaws aside, you have a great
movie. I give it 7.5/10.


******
26 January 2003
8

I think this movie made Tom Hanks worth the 25 million. I mean this movie
makes him the number one guy in Hollywood. Its a good film directed nicely
with some good effects but the whole movie is Hanks over the top
performance. I mean its not the best and i dont think it deserved all the
awards but it was a very good movie. They need a new category for Pulp
Fiction.  

******
2 July 2002
10

When I had to go, you know, I went!The decade of turmoil and self searching delivered with unequaled clarity
through the eyes of a simple man with little education.  What happens to
him
takes us through some of the unforgettable events that ended up shaping
our
very lives.  What an incredibly well choreographed dance through one of
the
most tumultuous periods in American history.

******
2 July 2002
10

When I had to go, you know, I went!The decade of turmoil and self searching delivered with unequaled clarity
through the eyes of a simple man with little education.  What happens to
him
takes us through some of the unforgettable events that ended up shaping
our
very lives.  What an incredibly well choreographed dance through one of
the
most tumultuous periods in American history.

******
10 May 2002
9

One thing I wanted to get straight, the movie Forrest Gump is an intelligent
film. Many of you will disagree, but that is because you are not seeing this
film in the light of its full potential. I can name tons of scenes which
trigger in one way or another a philosophical ideology. And I mean
TONS!The oh so famous feather scene...The scene when Forrest is at Jenny's grave...The scene when Forrest just finished runningEven his name Forrest has a meaning.The movie itself holds the meaning that the measurment of success is not by
intelligence and fame, it is by a simple notion of happiness. Forrest could
be a million-air, but he is happy to mow the lawn for free.There are many people I talk to don't understand this film. The reason is
because they can't relate to it.  

******
11 March 2002
10

Forrest Gump would make the perfect Taoist; he cares about littleexcept for love, and his handicaps (as seen by the audience) areactually strengths.  Forrest Gump has no "direct" control over hislife, but still makes a fortune and has an adventure throughgoodwill and love.  Out of all his accomplishments, finding andloving Jenny is his top one and he knows it.  Everything else that isso monumental means little to him.

******
4 March 2002
10

One of the best in a long time.  A mix of fantasy and fiction that seem
awfully real . . . . . with  purity of heart and good deeds and the way
people should act evident in abundance.  It both touched the soul and
brought forth laughter. Tom Hanks is apparently good in any role. Robert
Zemeckis may not direct one to match this.  A keeper that can be watched
again and again.   

******
1 October 2001
10

Wow! was the first reaction I got when I first sat through Forrest Gump.
This movie has to be one of the top three movies for the 90's. After you
watch it, you have a whole new perspective on life and the trials it brings
to you. Tom Hanks gives an incredible performance, and he was without a
doubt worthy of the Oscar he received in 1995 for this piece of movie
magic.
The supporting cast is superb, which includes the young actors who play
young Forrest,Jenny, and the now famous Haley Joel Osmet, who plays Forrest
Jr. Watch this movie, and after you do, you will realize life is just like
a
box of chocolates...you never know what your gonna get!**** Stars.


******
25 September 2001
6

Forrest gump is an overrated movie that has just a lot of smart ideas
going
for it. by no stretch of the imagination is this movie a classic, and most
definitely did not deserve the oscars that year. i hate to say it again,
but
i think its the academy's fascination with americanism that makes it chose
movies like this one, saving private ryan & american beauty over other
outstanding movies from those years.the series of anecdotes that link up gump's simple life to world-changing
historical events are quite cute and makes u smile a bit, but really thats
all the movies has going for it - that and tom hanks' captivating
performance. but again, as has been said before by many others - a
slightly
over-rated movie.a charming 7

******
21 May 2001
10

Anyone who finds this movie to be trash, I just don't understand why. Most
movies are not to be taken seriously and this is one of them. Forrest Gump
is just about a simple man living through his life. It's not a historical
documentary it is a movie, and a masterpiece movie.Tom Hanks, yet again is as perfect as ever and rightly enough won the best
actor oscar. (Anyone who doesn't like Hanks I don't understand, what is
there to dislike about him??!!) The supporting cast, especially Gary
Sinise,
Sally Field and Robin Wright are also magnificent and together they all
put
the cherry on the cake for this movie.I agree that it is a (sort of) American movie but that doesn't make it a
bad
or wrong movie. It wasn't overrated in the slightest because it is such a
great movie and I believe that it deserved all of the credit and awards
that
it receievd.If you love movies and Tom Hanks (like moi!) and are willing to watch
anything with an open mind then do yourself a favour and see it. I
gurantee
that this superb best picture oscar winner (and rightly so too), it will
not
disapoint you.Thank you all for being patient to read this, I'm glad I got that off my
chest!

******
15 April 2001
10

This IS the worlds greatest Drama. It has everything a Drama should
have.
Great cast & crew: Tom Hanks in his greatest role in his career. Gary sinise
also in his lifes role.
best directed picture. He has done good films before Forrest Gump, but this
one is special.
I love the producers of Gump because they dared to do it.
The screenwriter as well. 
The technical part of the movie is fantastic. Sound, sound effects editing,
cinematography, editing and last but not least visual effects.
The original score is realy touching.
And we have a masterful story to see.
So this masterpiece is worlds greatest Drama and the best Drama i have ever
seen. 

******
13 April 2001
10

oh my god, i love this film!!!!!
its really sweet, and funny, and it has everything u need in a
movie!
Tom Hanks is amazing! and whoever wrote this is to!
If u havent seen this then u really should! 10/10! the
best!

******
5 April 2001
10

I can't understand why anyone would not like this movie. Some say it's too
American. You have to remember that this is a "Movie". Movies are for
entertainment and for sheer entertainment value, this film gets a 10 from
me. The direction, The absolute convincing acting from Tom Hanks, Gary
sinise, and Sally Fields just makes you forget that they ever were in any
other movie. I would have to say that since I saw it, if anybody mentions
the words film and best in the same sentence, "Forrest Gump" is the first
movie that comes to my mind. every time!
I just can't wait for the DVD edition to come out.

******
1 April 2001
9

some really creative camera techniques and great story.. don't know why some
people didn't like it and it didn't make it to imdb top 100 movies. I
personally happen to love this movie a lot. Can't wait until the DVD come
out..
best,

******
13 January 2001
10

the very touching story about Forrest Gump is in my eyes the best motion
picture ever by 4 reasons.1. the story about Forrest journey down through the centuries is a
wonderful
story with loneliness, happiness and sadness. I dont think that any other
movie can top that.2. tom hanks - this is his best part ever. i normally dont like hanks very
much but this time i just cant say anything else than he was perfect in
the
part. only a young robert de niro could have done it this good, and
perhaps
not even him.3. the music - alan silvestris scores big time this time with his music.
what more is there to say.4. gary sinise - my all-time favourite actor had his big breakthrough in
this movie the same year as he did the mini-serie "the stand" and he was
this year nominated for the oscar fo this part. he is perfect as dan
taylor
and i think that he should have won the oscar.

******
28 November 2000
10

Critics of Forest Gump like to talk about the Hollywood schmaltz that covers
the movie like frosting on a cake. The fact that Gump also came out at the
same time as Pulp Fiction and received more attention than Tarantino's gem
also tends to feed the fire of Gump opponents, who turn the situation into a
Gump vs. Pulp scenario, when in fact, both movies deserve all the credit
they can get. Gump is indeed hurt by the mainstream accolades bestowed upon
it, but that should not take away from the fact that it was an original
script that had some of the best acting you'll find. Few could argue that
Hanks was sensational. Gary Sinise and Robin Wright were also fantastic in
their roles as Lt. Dan and Jenny. And, anyone who has a heartbeat has to be
touched by Gump's innocence and the fact that his pure honesty and goodness
continually prevailed despite life's ugly turns.

******
24 November 2000
10

"Forrest Gump" has been a great success in 1994. Beyond the various accuses
of being only a tearjeker of success, we have to say that this movie has a
lot of good things: the story of the stupid famous has a lot of funny
moments (the meeting with Johnson or the saving of Dan in Vietnam), but we
don't have to forget that death is always present in the movie: on Tv we see
only violence and a lot of characters around Forrest die. "Forrest Gump" is
a fable of this century, a very beautiful and moving fable. The actors are
great: Tom Hanks gives a very tender performance, made by innocence and
surprise, Robin Wright is the lost angel full of sadness, Gary Sinise shows
us all the rage and self-destruction of his character and Sally Field is the
Mum we all wish to have. Great work behind the scenes with the beautiful
score by Alan Silvestri and the great photography of Don Burgess. Special
effects are exceptional. Look for the young son of Forrest. he's the new
star Haley Joel Osment!  

******
16 November 2000
10

I know so many people who think Forrest Gump is a bad movie. They thought it
didn't deserve all those Oscars and how it could be in the top 10 grossing
films of all-time. However, let's look at the movie Forrest Gump. It's a
biography of a fictional character who, despite an I.Q. of lower than 80,
achieves so many awe inspiring things. He becomes an All-American running
back, he goes to Vietnam, saves several lives, and wins a Medal of Honor for
it. He becomes an amazing table tennis player and wins the International
championship. He buys a shrimp boat and in a short time monopolizes the
industry. He runs around the United States in three years. He marries his
childhood sweetheart and has a son. Quite an accomplished life. The story is
told with such beautiful narration by Forrest himself, and we see all the
amazing things that have happened in his short life. That is the beauty of
this movie, we get to see the entire life of a mentally challenged man, and
what a life it is! The visual effects are also amazing with Tom Hanks spliced into old video
footage from American history. Hanks delivers one of the greatest
performances ever in film and won an Oscar for it, one year after winning
Best Actor for Philadelphia. The movie won Best Picture of 1994 and was
ranked 71 on AFI's 100 Greatest Movies of the last 100 Years. I was blown
away by everything in this movie, and, if what people say is true about all
the hype with a shallow movie attached, then I'm a victim of that. An epic
masterpiece. 10/10. 

******
12 November 2000
10
Forrest Gump Is a great film, It's a film of many Genre's,
Action,Drama,Comedy and Romance. It's the story of someone called
Forrest Gump, whom is waiting for a bus to see his wife. How ever, he
talks to various people also waiting for their bus about his life; a
sort of 'Autobiography'. It's cleverly put together with scenes of
Forrest and Kennedy, John Lennon and President Nixon. There are also
famous things happening like the Watergate scandal, Man on the moon and
the Kennedy assassination. It's a great film, and Tom Hanks (Toy Story
and 'You've got mail') plays Forrest amazingly. No wonder it got
Oscars. It's a must see.

******
12 November 2000
10

You either like this film or you hate it. There is something for
everybody.
It gives a good review of the major events in history during Forrest's
time.
It is a classic love story between Gump and his girl Jenny. It also shows
that there can be happy endings even in difficult times.I was more interested in Jenny's journey through the film but Tom Hank's
performance deserved the Oscar he got. Robin Wright's performance, as
Jenny,
is just as good and blew me away.I challenge anybody not to be affected by the last 30 minutes.


******
27 September 2000
10

This is an excellent story of after WWII generation which is shown through
the life of a man and his true love.
He seems like a stupid guy firstly, but his conclusion shows the naked
true
of life.

******
26 July 2000
10

Despite the title, it's not the story of Forrest Gump, blank slate; it's a
story told by Forrest Gump, clear mirror.  And the story he reflects is of
America and its journey through the late 20th century, its failings and
its
growth. It isn't a totally glorious story.  Nor is it the story of
wealthy,
clever people (and their shrinks) from the cities - that's for the Woody
Allens of the world, and their admittedly important and valuable studies
of
interior worlds.  This is an expansive survey of what makes America what
it
is.  Zemeckis's answer is the nearest thing to Frank Capra's deeply
democratic concept of America as a collection of ordinary, not-too-bright,
people who are sometimes misled by their "leaders", sometimes beguiled
into
temptation, who make mistakes but collectively stumble and fumble to a
generally benign destination guided by wisdom and good intentions that few
of them possess consistently as individuals but which comprise the
collective sum of their histories.
Tom Hanks must be a genius to play the Everyman, Mr America.  It seemed to
be the role Dennis Weaver was destined for after Duel; it's the role
Dennis
Hopper achieved once in Easy Rider; it's the role Gary Cooper and James
Stewart filled in Capra's films; but none of them had to carry quite so
much
of a film as Hanks does here. 

******
20 July 2000
10

Goodness gracious, I discovered that I hadn't commented on this movie yet!
Well, it's to be rectified.Forrest Gump was an absolute favorite of mine for several years, it still
ranks among the top ten movies of all time. It is brilliant, a true gem that
will undoubtedly become a classic. It already IS a classic, actually. At
least in my book.Though it differs from the book - or should I say it has nothing to do with
the book by Winston Groom at all except for the name Forrest Gump and
ping-pong - it has an almost literary quality to it: it's the kind of epic
and insane saga one can find in one. The life and adventures of Forrest Gump
are a modern equivalent of Munchausen, but this time around, the liar tells
the truth. Forrest Gump is a perfect human being, a bit on the slow side,
I'll admit - but he is honest, he is righteous and he never wants to do
anyone any harm.This film is also a meandering look at modern American history, it's
politics and society, and the distance that Forrest himself sets between the
events and actually understanding them is the kind of distance we all feel
sometimes - or want to feel more often. His ability to walk away unscathed
from any happening is one I sure would like to have.I short put, this film is one I will remember for the rest of my
life.

******
28 May 2000
10

I have only watched a handful of movies more than once, and I've watched
'Gump' from beginning to end at least 4 times.  It's what true movie-making
is all about.  An accidental hero that you can't help but care for as he
struggles through his amazing life.  The performances are all superior, but
Tom Hanks nails this role like no other actor in the history of film.  He
is
Forrest Gump.

******
19 April 2000
10

I have never seen a screenplay that can measure up to Eric Roth's screenplay
of `Forrest Gump' in it's original structure, intelligence and unique
approach to life analysis and its treatment, and the direction so powerful,
expert and spectacular in a major Hollywood motion picture like Robert
Zemeckis's in this one.I have also never seen a film so complete and deep, never seen a dream
fantasy presented on the screen so successfully, never seen a human being so
special as Forrest is, and never felt a movie experience that was so moving
and touching. It's a fictious character and a fictious plot, but if I
haven't known that, I would have said that I believe that the film is based
on a true story with a few adaptions and plot point changes. Eventhough
Forrest goes through the most unplausible situations one can go through.I doubt that anyone will observe life the same way after seeing this movie.
A lot of them will say that the movie was stupid and overdone, but deep
inside they'll remember it forever. The promotional tagline of the movie
truly is the point of it and its message. That's what the creators
accomplished, and in such an unexpected and unique way that you really start
to wonder was the quality of this movie maybe reached by a complete
accident. The tagline and the feather prove that it wasn't.I find `Forrest Gump' original, intelligent, wise, sly, balanced, complex,
heartwarming, unbelievably dynamic, witty in one-of-a-kind manner, endlessly
touching and enchanting, extraordinary and magical. And, for that matter,
one of the best American motion pictures in the history of filmmaking.


******
18 January 2000
6

  I know my one line summary might not be that clear so I'm going to explain
it to you.  In  1994, we had classics like "The Shawshank redemption" and
"Pulp fiction" who were in nomination at the Oscars and were stolen in every
category in which they were nominated.  They were all stolen by "Forrest
Gump".  These two other movies which were completely different in their
style from the movies of the same genre as them but who came before them
were completely over-looked.  And the worst part is "Forrest Gump" is simply
the biography of Forest Gump.  Also, it robbed every movie in the best actor
category.  Of course it isn't that easy to play someone who is mentally ill
but it's easier than playing just some ordinary person and playing it
well.  Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks) lives with his mother and comes from North-West
Alabama.  However, he has a slight mental deficiency and a leg problem for
which he must wear a brace.  When he starts going to school, he is rejected
by everyone except the bus-driver and a young girl named Jenny.  One day
after school, while Forrest and jenny are hanging together, they are
surprised by a bunch of boys from their school who start throwing rocks at
Forrest.  He tries to run away but because of his bad leg, he can hardly get
away.  This is the classic scene when Jenny yells "Run Forrest, run." and as
he runs, his brace starts to come off and the boys who were chasing him are
unable to catch up to him for he is too fast, even though they have
bikes.  As the years pass, Forrest and Jenny (Robin Wright Penn) go their own way.
 Forrest gets into the army and goes to Vietnam.  But one night in the camp,
all the soldiers are in bed and pass on a Playboy magazine.  When Forrest
gets it, he realizes Jenny has her photograph in it.  Further on during the
war, he saves the life of his lieutenant named Don Taylor (Gary Sinise) but
loses his best friend Bubba.  Also, his lieutenant is left legless because
of the accident whereas the only Forrest gets is a bullet in the butt.  When
Forrest gets home, he as many things to do.  On of them is to go over to
Bubba's parents' house to announce to them he was killed in combat.  Another
thing he does is try to find Jenny.  The movie is a kind of comedy-drama and is pretty good.  But I still don't
think nor understand how it won best picture, best actor (Tom Hanks) and
best director (Robert Zemeckis) at the Oscars. I mean, if it had really
deserved those Oscars, wouldn't it get a higher rank than both "Pulp
fiction" and "The Shawshank redemption" on our top 250 list?  I actually
believe that the one who deserved an Oscar more than anyone else in the
movie is Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Don Taylor.  However, it was almost
impossible for him to win that year because we had Martin Landau in
nomination for best supporting actor in "Ed Wood" and he truly deserved the
Oscar he won.  So all in all, this isn't a bad movie, it's just way too
over-rated.

******
9 July 1999
10

There are certain films that people should just enjoy.  Forrest Gump is
one
of them.  It makes you feel good.  It makes you feel happy and it makes
you
appreciate what excellent film making is all about.  Simply
put, this movie is pretty much flawless and it is a movie for the
ages.Pulp Fiction was deserving of best picture and so was Shawshank
Redemption,
but only one of these fine three films could have won that year.  It is
like
watching the two best hockey teams playing in the Stanley Cup Finals.  It
is
the seventh game and we are now in triple overtime and the score is tied
at
2.  One team will win the cup, and not necessarily because they are better
than the other, but because someone has to win.  That was the case in
1994.
I loved Pulp, and I loved Shawshank, but I loved Gump too and when it won
I
cheered out loud.  Good for Robert Zemekis.What is so great about Forrest Gump is that it makes life a little more
pure, a little more innocent.  Forrest never really quite understands what
is
going on around him and for that reason he lives life in the dark in some
ways but in other ways, he sees so much more light than the rest of us.
And
his antics and the way he lives that life is an inspiration to the rest of
us, or at least it should be.  And how can you not like the guy.  Is there
a more
likable character in the history of cinema?  I doubt it!Robert Zemekis took me completely by storm when I first saw this film.
Back
To The Future was a great film and he has always shown that he has a
propensity for box office gold, but to make a picture that was not only
phenomenally successful at the box office but is this sweet and fun and
heart warming, was not what I expected from him.  Then again, he is a
Spielberg cronie, so that must mean something.Zemekis is one of the strengths of this film, but the tour de force is
really Hanks.  His adaptation of the character is remarkable.  He is ever
so
convincing and even though his work in Philedelphia was completely Oscar
worthy, this is even a step above that.  I love him here and I will see
anything that he is in from here on out.I love movies.  I love what they do to me.  I love that they can make me
feel a plethora of emotions.  Even when I despise a film, I can still look
back and say that if anything it made me feel something.  But Forrest Gump
is a microcosm of why I like movies.  My world is little better after I
watch this movie and for that I am so glad that this film was made.  And
for
the people that can't enjoy this movie, I certainly hope that in the years
to come you can.  Because you just don't know what you're
missing.

******
28 June 1999
10

I can't think of any reason why someone would not like this movie. It
seems
to have just about everything you want: comedy, romance, action,
tragedy...
The script is simply ingenious, and Tom Hanks' performance as Forrest Gump
is stunning. The humor is based on Forrest's dumbness and wonderful "this
is
how [item] was created"- histories that show great imagination by the
writers. One of the best movies I have ever seen.

******
14 June 1999
9

Forrest Gump is pure magic to watch. How anyone could say that this film
is
lacking in any way or that the hidden messages within render it to the
garbage heap baffles me. Just the way that the film moves alone makes it
great, you can toss out the story, performances and direction and Forrest
Gump would still be miles ahead of the rest.Tom Hanks gives a great performance in the title role (although Morgan
Freeman was probably more deserving in the Shawshank Redemption). Hanks
portrays the man with an I.Q. of 75 like few actors could and maintains
this
throughout the film. Just the way that Forrest stumbles through all of the
great U.S. events from the 50's to the 80's and thinks nothing of it is an
accomplishment in itself.Zemekis did well making this film, just like the Back To The Future
series.
This film surely did not lack vision and all concepts are fresh and real
for
the time. Who would have ever thought that they could be placed in an
interview with John Lennon? Well now thanks to Industrial Light and Magic,
anyone can. Regardless what others may say about a weak or nonexistent
ending, did the other 1994 favourite have one? Not really. This film is
tied
up about as well as possible with yet another coincedence.I haven't a bad thing to say about this film and fully recommend to
all.9/10 stars.

******
5 June 1999
10

I think this is the best movie ever made. I know many of you would
disagree,
but I really enjoyed this movie. There is more to this movie then what you
see on the screen. The film shows how Forrest went through many important
events, but the only thing he really wanted, Jenny, he couldn't have. This
movie also shows that even though Forrest was slow, he had a lot of love
in
his heart. He wasn't intelligent, but he knew what love was.What Tom Hanks did in this movie is incredible. He made up a character
that
so unbelievable but is so realistic. He did an extraordinary acting job,
and
that is why I think he's the best actor.I think the best part of the movie is when Forrest stands next to Jenny's
grave, and recites that speech. That part was wonderful. Especially when
he
says "And our son, Forrest...He's just so smart Jenny. We go fishing
together, we run together..."
It was great!

******
3 June 1999
9

"Forrest Gump" is exactly the kind of film that has suffered from too much
praise. As someone who genuinely loves this film, I am dumbfounded by
those
who hate it. But time after time, when a film receives high praise from a
great number of people, it leaves high expectations for those who haven't
seen it. The result is often disappointment.Some people object to its unrealistic approach. Suggesting that the
involvement of Forrest in some of America's pivotal moments in history is
not only ridiculous but misleading. Another argument I've heard is the
fact
that a mentally handicapped individual could never attain the levels of
success that Forrest does. They've missed out on a truly charming,
endearing
fairy tale that can help you look at life from a different approach, a
simple one at that. And the dialogue is so inherently quotable, as the
message behind it is so straightforward. "Stupid is as stupid
does".Forrest is a purely innocent, well-meaning individual, and there can be no
fault found in him. It's the rest of the world that is realistic, impure,
and flawed. And so, when Forrest hurts, we can't help but hurt for him,
when
he is successful, we can't help but be happy for him and when his heart
breaks, ours breaks also.I can't tell if it's the music, the cinematography or the acting, but the
scene where young Forrest breaks free of his leg braces to escape the
bullies on bicycles, gets me every time. Every single time. I've watched
this film more times than I care to count, as I feel as though I should be
watching something I've never seen before. But this film just makes me
feel
good, and I'll no doubt watch it again.Now you see, I can't help but praise this film, and in a way I'm probably
ruining it for someone else. My sister blames me for ruining it for her.
It's not easy to forget what everyone's said, and the awards it has won.
But
if you haven't seen it already, just try and see it with fresh eyes, and
open your mind to a very charming film.


******
21 May 1999
10

This film is superb! Every time you watch you'll find something new. If
you're an historian you'll understand almost every hilarious situation
Gump
gets into. Even if you're not, you'll get most of it. I believe this film
definitely did deserve the Oscars it received.

******
10 March 1999
10

A number of users have mentioned that The Shawshank Redemption (TSR) should
have won the best picture Oscar over Forrest Gump (FG). This type of
criticism is unjustified when you realise the various reason why FG actually
won the Oscars!!!
1) The title Forrest Gump is a bit misleading as the movie is not really
about FG as it first seems for the average viewer, rather it is about us the
audience who are supposed to be normal but we act in real life even worse
than FG.
2) FG is laughing at us as we laugh at him. We see him as abnormal, but when
Forrest tries to understand us he finds out that normal people cause so much
pain in the world towards other people. This is clearly shown with the short
clips of political and social history throughout the movie which the viewing
audience in the cinema failed to recognise. This helps to prove FG case
against normal people.
3) The movie can be interpreted in so many different ways that every time a
viewer watches it they get a different version of what Forrest sees and
understands and what it means for human nature as a whole. Only Forrest
seems normal in the movie, while others are killing pop stars and important
people in society. Forrest can't understand why normal people do this, as
for me personally I agree with Forrest on this issue.
4) While Forrest is telling his story of events in his life, many of the
viewing audience thought it was literally happening, but because some of the
events described are surreal in its feel many people thought the movie was
silly. Yet it was the viewers who were silly as they see things through
Forrest's eyes not their own. Equally the viewer misses many of the
important aspects of the movies' message because they fail to go into
Forrest's world and explore.Misinterpretation that the viewer makes:
1) The running scene though at first seeming stupid is in fact one of the most
thought provoking scenes ever in the history of movie making, but the
average viewer does not realise this, because he/she cannot think broadly.
This scene shows that normal people are stupid to follow people in the media
as icons thinking they are clever people because they seem to be doing
something special. What Forrest shows is that famous people are just as
brainy as every else. But we normal people worship politicians in vain and
others stars to sort out our world problems.
2) When Forrest is speaking at a rally against Vietnam, again people in real
life follow anybody who has a big mouth without really understanding what
they are saying - so profound as well as funny.
3) Jenny only realises that Forrest is the right person for her when it is
too late, you should not judge on appearances, rather the
character.The Movie also shows how normal people bully others, rape and child abuse
children, start wars, use people and discriminate others. Forrest does not
do any of these things, yet we as the viewer call him abnormal. For me, this
is the most innovative movie I have ever seen as it has duped the world to
think it is about Forrest rather than themselves.

******
3 January 1999
10

The story of a man who is a bit slow but better than most of us as he is so
patient, consistent, good natured and good at heart. 

******
23 December 1998
9
It never ceases to amaze me that many folks heap criticism onto this very
simple and wonderful FAIRY TALE.  They look for complexity and messages
where there are none, then cannot buy into the obviously fantastic and
utterly improbable life of Forrest Gump due to the irrationality involved,
and then somehow miss the entire point of the movie!Simply because it is set in modern times some look to this fairy tale for
messages about right wing conservatism, the USA's role in Vietnam, the
American Dream, etc.It's not about any of those things.  It's about a simpleton who knows what
love, loyalty, family, and friendship are, and their importance in life.
It's about those around him who come to realize that perhaps the simpleton
has more of a clue as to what is TRULY important in life than they
do.Hanks' performance is excellent, as is Robin Wright's and Gary Sinise's.
The direction is also top notch, as is the sound track, special effects, and
scenery.  Heck, it's just a pretty damn awesome movie.This movie will be remembered as the "It's a Wonderful Life" of our
generation.Mark


******
11 December 1998
10

Forrest Gump is probably the best movie that I've ever seen! It's truly a
flawless movie that includes some of the best scenes ever made in a movie.
Forrest Gump is a movie that will make you laugh and make you cry, but by
the end, you will have enjoyed it so much. The story of Forrest Gump is a
great story, probably the best ever made! If you're looking for a movie that
you'll like, get Forrest Gump. It is the best!

******
24 October 1998
9

Call me CRAZY! I usually get to view tons of good cheap movies in my
lifetime, but that's not always what I see. Every once in a while, I'll also
see a film the the entire American public has enjoyed and disliked through the
years gone by. Among those is FORREST GUMP, which proved Tom Hanks as an
acclaimed dramatic actor. The tale of a young man living through the life
and times is among the many landmarks existing in cinema today. No one
understood that the nostalgic visuals and props (plus the legless Gary
Sinise) were actually real and not copied or duplicated, meaning an Oscar
winner. It is both funny, serious, and heartbreaking for one entire movie,
but it isn't labeled as a "comedy" like many have called it. The film
greatly shows Hanks maturity after his comical heydays, and it continues on.
It also shows the way past generations of time are reborn in this present,
but disillusioned era. FORREST GUMP is a bona fide genuine classic that will
stick around in future generations to come. I ADMIT IT!

******
1 September 1998
8

Forrest Gump has probably the most original storyline ever told. Almost
everyone I know has seen it and liked it one way or another. It is well
known for its great biographical work, but it is better known for its story
of the rising and falling period of America. It's like all the Oliver Stone
films rolled into one, with a touch of romance and a humor which pokes fun
at a time when no-one knew what the hell was going on with their country. I
particularly liked the war scenes when it resembled many Vietnam War
classics. But to put one genre summarising Forrest Gump, it has to be
Romance, for the 40 year relationship between Jenny and Forrest has the
most memorable scenes.

******
19 August 1998
10

Forrest Gump is the greatest movie ever made. I know that many people
would disagree on this assertion, but I believe it to be true.  What makes
the movie so great is the wide range of emotions that you experience while
watching it.  It goes from comedy, to happiness, to suspense to a feeling
of sadness, and then back to happiness again.  This is only a small
statement of this movie, but my thoughts of it are much greater.


******
2 November 2013
1
I would give this movie a negative 10 if I could. It was one of the few
movies I've ever seen that I absolutely HATED. There are a lot of
movies that are bad, but I don't "hate" them. This movie I absolutely
detest. Nothing about the movie is believable. Some people have told
me, and some of the reviews say that it's not meant to be real, but
viewed as a fable. It doesn't work on that level either.I've read reviews that said they rarely cry at movies, but this one had
them bawling. I'm the opposite, I often easily cry at movies, but the
only emotional feeling this movie left me with was relief it was over.
There was no emotional attachment to any of the characters.The real kicker is that this film won best picture and best actor over
"The Shawshank Redemption" and Morgan Freeman. At least the overall
IMDb readers got it right. TSR is the best movie of all time.

******
18 March 2008
5
This is one film that I have to say did not leave a lasting impression
on me all of those years ago,but since many factors play a part in
whether or not you enjoy a film,and since it is obviously an Oscar
winner loved by many,I recently decided to give it a second chance
viewing.I am happy to report that I have had a total change of heart.We
have here a story about a young man who is,to say the least,seemingly a
bit slower than you and I.Yet,unlike many who are slow,he gains fame
and prestige.The sweet thing about Forrest Gump is that none of that
fame and prestige ever seemed to be that important to him.True love is
the only thing that he ever really wanted,yet it always seemed to evade
him because the girl he loved was always running away to find
herself.Foolishly,she couldn't see that where she belonged was where
she always seemed to be when she failed to find herself elsewhere:right
there with Forrest.With Forrest Gump,you will laugh at the way he
stumbles his way through the history books,yet you will be touched at
the way he touches those around him,and will cheer for him to find the
love he deserves.You will ultimately learn that you don't have to have
that much book smarts to know what is important in life.

******
5 May 2007
7
I think I've seen this film now about five or six times, the most of
them when I was between 10 and 15, and now from a little distance it
seems not illogical. "Forrest Gump" definitely is a film very suited
for children with much of its not too subtle humour and you can
recognize that it is generally made for a large, large audience with
all its political correctness and clean showing of sexuality (I mean
you can't offend anyone, can't you?). The background sound is provided
by a huge amount of popular classics of the time. It's also funny how
the film connects different historical occasions and persons and weaves
them into the overall story, what makes a big part of the films charm.
This film has heart, that's why I still like it, although there are
some negative qualities that are reaching surface more and more for me.
The main thing is that it's just too overly soapy dramatized. And after
multiple viewings also Tom Hanks' acting starts going really on my
nerves.

******
17 March 2007
10
Most comedy films are pretty much the same: weak story lines, so-so
acting, pretty much pointless plots, and so on and so forth. However,
"Forrest Gump" is a comedy film which is totally different. Because
it's not just a comedy. It's a very well-made drama. More than that,
it's just a well-made movie. Even if it wasn't funny, it would still be
great. That's my concept of a good comedy movie. A good comedy movie
needs not only to be funny, but it needs to be able to still hold out
even if you totally eliminated all of the humor in it. And "Forrest
Gump" is the perfect example.Tom Hanks, who won the Academy Award for Best Actor in this film,
pulled off what may be his finest performance on the big screen. That
and what he did in "Saving Private Ryan". While he's definitely not
unintelligent in real life, he is talented enough as an actor to make
himself appear to be one. Yet he can still make his character appear
not only to be a half-wit, but a real person as well. Like Forrest Gump
is an actual man and not an actor pulling off a spectacular
performance. Gary Sinise was also excellent in his role.Like I commented earlier, "Forrest Gump" is a well-made movie and it
would still be just as great even if it wasn't funny. The drama between
Forrest and Jenny can be at times, heart-breaking or just simply
powerful. Even if Hanks was playing just an ordinary, everyday person
with an ordinary, everyday life. And it also has many moments of dumb
luck.Of course, being a comedy, it must also be given credit for being
funny, which it is. Tom Hanks, again.If I ever had a choice to pick just one comedy film to ever see again
in my lifetime, I would choose "Forrest Gump" because it is not just a
good comedy film, but a good movie. And it's one of a rare few that I
can give credit for being both at once. It's one of the finest films
ever made. Worthy of Best Picture, which it won.

******
25 February 2007
10
This has to be one of the most beautiful movies ever made. I remember
the first time I saw it, I was in some department store, and I saw a
scene playing on the store t.v. It was the scene where Forrest is on
Merv Griffin (?) I believe, talking with John Lennon, and actually my
first impression was that it was forced, and contrived. Corny. So, I
never really watched the whole film, until a year or two ago. This
movie brings so many tears to my eyes, not because of sadness, but
because of the simplicity of life, relationships, and different
stories. The little feather in the beginning of the film seems to be on
a journey visiting different lives, and by the end of the story, when
the little feather moves on on it's path, you are so touched and moved
by the beautiful story of Forrest Gump.My favorite character is probably Lt. Dan. Forrest meets Lt. Dan in
Vietnam, and when Dan loses the bottom half of his legs, he has a
"problem", putting it lightly, with God, and his destiny. But, through
the years, and by knowing Forrest, he comes to terms with his
situation, and one of my favorite scenes is where Dan is swimming in
the ocean. It shows how much he CAN do, as he can swim just fine, and
enjoy that wonderful, cool, free experience available to most of us. By
the end of the film he has come such a long way; he is happy, engaged
to a nice girl, and walking on titanium legs, with the help of a cane.
And boy is he easy on the eyes, at that! I liked the character of Jenny, but I hated how she kept leaving
Forrest, and not telling him why. She deserted him quite a bit. Yet he
could not hold it against her. She was a survivor of child sexual abuse
and incest, so that helps to explain her lifelong struggle with
depression. In the end, she does give Forrest a wonderful gift in the
form of his son, Little Forrest. However, I thought it a little strange
how they handled the A.I.D.S. idea. I mean, if she had A.I.D.S.,
wouldn't they allude to some form of protection, for Forrest, after
they got married? Even though she died in 1982 (according to the
headstone)the medical profession did know at that time, that it was a
sexually transmitted disease. And, I am assuming that she meant AIDS,
when she said that she had a virus that the docs didn't know what it
was, and that there was nothing that they could do about it. I never
read the book, so I don't know if it was explained a little more there. One other little question I had was the scene where Forrest opens a
letter from Lt. Dan, telling him that he would never need to worry
about money ever again, because of their investments in Apple. The
letter head says 1975. Hmmmm. I guess I'll have to do my research and
see when Apple became a multi-million dollar company, and went public.
I know that when I was in high school in 1982, we were still learning
Pascal, or whatever those old fashioned computer languages were at that
point, before user friendly p.c.s hit the market. I didn't know that
Apple was that big, already. It may prove that I am just ignorant, and
can use a lesson in business history. Other than that, and the two
scenes of John Lennon, and President Kennedy, which I thought were
hokey, the movie was a huge success in my book. It's a truly beautiful
film, and I also like the woman at the bus stop who ends up staying,
missing her bus on purpose, so that she can listen to Gump. She is a
neat character, who is moved by his story. If you like beautiful,
moving films, see this one.

******
26 November 2006
10
And they said this is a typical American film so it's appealing to
every American,even worse,some say this is a pointless trash...First of all,this film had achieved what a movie ought to achieve,to
change one's personality in a decent way(Of course not including
simpleton,moron,imbecile),and it had done to me,i learnt from this film
that honesty is a uncertain treasure,we all should gain the certain
side of this treasure thing,and this had never occur to Forrest because
he is so honest enough for voter here to depict it as"innocence is the
key to happiness",well,i can scarcely accept this haughty
sentence,cause i firmly believe this is not the message the director or
any individual in it want us to get,and if you got it,you are a perfect
moron.As for the acting some say it is pathetic and insufferable to watch
even through 5 mins,and the movie was all down hell from the first 10
mins.Not to mention any award to this film is suspicious for some of
the hater against this film.But i am not presume to throw any of my
personal opinion on this because someone just couldn't resist watching
a stupid face throughout 2 hours.All i can say is that Forrest Gump
maybe stupid,but it's still a rather complicated role to portray of,and
i haven't compare Tom Hanks acting with any other Oscar nominee that
very year,so my choice may not be accurate,and if being such case,i
shall shut up at once.10 out of 10

******
4 August 2006
10
A rating of 10 is way too small for Forrest! Tom Hanks had an amazing
part, played it amazingly, won on Oscar for it, the film itself won in
total 6 Oscars, what can we say more? :) I've seen this film 11 times
from beginning to end, and I'd like to watch it again for another 11
times, and then again and again. Words are simply not enough for the
storyline, the script is beautiful, music is brilliant, and the most
important fact, this movie simply touches one's heart.Do not be afraid to watch this film with your entire family, with your
grandma, with your dogs or cats, even with your neighbours if you can!
On high-definition TV, a Dolby Surround sound system and wide-screen
TV, Forrest Gump will show you what life is worth fighting for!!

******
19 July 2006
10
Forest Gump is the best movie ever for so many reasons. It made me
laugh and cry.The amazing actor of Tom Hanks.And the an amazing
directing skills of Robert Zemeckis. I am not the only one who thinks
so either because it got 6 academy awards including best picture. I
hope everyone get to see this movie at least once in their life
time.Personally I wacth it every night and have two VCR's tapes and the
collector edition DVD.In America is is rated PG-13 and in Canada it is
rated PG.In the words of forest gump "Momma always said Life Is like a box of
chocolates, you never know what you'r gonna get."love ya all

******
30 June 2006
10
This movie, is a great movie. It shows a man, who through blind
innocence, wins the medal of honor, makes some of the most recognized
symbols in the world, runs across the united states 3 times, becomes a
millionaire, and makes a huge investment in Apple computers making him
probably close to a billionaire, all with an IQ of 75. He meets the
president twice for different reasons each time, he makes an impression
on everyone he meets, he is one of the first Americans in China for
decades, and he wins the ping pong tournament he goes there for. He
doesn't particularly try, he just does. This movie has shown how
somethings just...happen.

******
25 June 2006
10
A man with limited intelligence does everything that comes along in his
life. He runs fast so that leads to playing football in college then
that leads to the army which leads to being in the Vietnam war. While
he is in the war, he plays ping pong and becomes one of the greatest
players ever. He also makes a promise to his fellow solider that he
will take over the shrimp business. He runs across America and the
whole time he his doing all this, he still carries a torch for his
childhood sweetheart Jenny. Everything that Gump does in this movie, he
is successful. Gump doesn't fail at anything that he does and yes he
might start off failing but he always ended up successful. There are so
many great scenes and like a box of chocolates I cannot pick just one
to say is my favorite. I love the whole movie and I didn't know what I
was going to get when I first watched this.

******
8 June 2006
10
This is a excellent movie! It tells us on this world, the truth is generally the simplest thing.
And the truth can exist always. I like this movie, and watch it for two times and still want to watch
it, and also I want to buy and save it. With Gump Forest, we can have hope even we meet obstacle. It tell us,
if you resist on one thing, and concentrate you spirit on it, you will
achieve something that may be out of your expectation. And always, the
result is to goodness. I really can't understand why some guys vote it with score 1, and the
rate exceeds 2%. It is too strange. The world is colorful, and I can't
comment on other votes. I can only say for me, it is a EXCELLENT movie.

******
3 July 2005
10
This film is, in my opinion, one of the best films i have ever seen and
deserves at least 9/10.I agree with the previous comment - how can this film get such a low
rating of less than 9? This film is an epic. It shows that people who
actually care, who are nice people can actually make it in life and
that they can influence others to do good. This film shows that a good
guy like Forrest can be a successful, and i love the fact that he still
chooses to cut lawns for free.Forrest Gump is also hugely funny, and is full of hilarious moments,
like the list of ways you can cook shrimp. It also has a few famous
lines - "Run Forrest run" and "Life is like a box of chocolates...." -
which are instantly recognisable.Its also really impressive when he plays "ping pong" (or Table Tennis
as we call it in UK). Was that really him? If so - he's got two good
careers! This film is a classic, and everyone should see it either for its
meaning, its comedy or how touching it is. If you rate this film any
less than 9, you're obviously just trying to get another film at the
top.

******
19 June 2005
10
Forrest Gump is my all time favourite movie (shared with Pulp
Fiction!). And I'm not American. I don't know what the movie is trying
to achieve, and I don't really care. All I know is that it touches
every part of me. It's the perfect entertainment. If you ever feel
depressed or life is getting the better of you, watch this movie. For
all its pathos and sadness its the most emotionally uplifting,
good-natured movie ever made. And it achieves all this without an ounce
of schmaltz. It is a movie full of humour, profound wisdom and many
magical and memorable scenes. I love it. And unlike many it only gets
better the more times you watch it.There are some people here trying to load political baggage onto this
movie. I just can't agree. Every institution, belief and value system
is treated with exactly the same irreverence. While the world revolves
violently and tumultuously around Forrest Gump, he takes it all in his
stride with the simple application of his steadfast sense of decency
and love. If the movie tells us anything, it tells us that if we could
all act a little more like Forrest Gump and a little less like we know
it all, the world would be a far better place.

******
10 November 2004
10
Before I ever saw this film, I heard it criticized for being
anti-intellectual, for proffering Forrest's limited IQ as a virtue to
be applauded. That was enough to dissuade me from actually watching it
for a long time. When I finally watched it, though, I found it deeply
moving, despite my negative expectations. Yes, it's practically an
exercise in non-stop emotional manipulation. Some of it is so
heavy-handed that even a softie like me could see it coming and
sidestep it. Still, there are other scenes that affect me every time,
even after many viewings. There are moments of pride, humor,
loneliness, gratitude, fear, heartache, and joy, moments that are true
down to the bone, even though the film is obvious fantasy.Still, it took me a long time to embrace this movie. Forrest did indeed
have a low IQ, and is indeed held up as an American hero, and at first
I had trouble with that, just as others did. Our culture has suffered
enough "dumbing down" without popular films promoting stupidity as a
positive thing. Also, the character of Jenny was problematic for me,
enough to keep me ambivalent about the whole movie; Gump's love for her
was almost pathetic and she never seemed to grow in understanding.
Forrest offers his heart each time they meet, and each time she leaves
him behind without explanation or apology, even after the conception of
Forrest Jr., when it seems that she has finally gotten her act
together. Ultimately, she only returns when she knew her time was
nearly ended.Through the years, I came across "Forrest Gump" occasionally on cable
and I would give it another try. I tired of the historical CGI,
inserts, and other pop culture jokes pretty fast; they were mildly
entertaining the first time around, but after that they seem like
they're just in the way, serving only to space out the really
meaningful scenes in order to let you catch your breath. But, oh, those
good moments... I knew I had to get past my reservations and figure out
why I loved this movie. And finally I have.First, I realized that the review I referred to earlier was wrong.
Gump's limited intelligence is not presented as his strength; it's
simply a fact of his life that allows the plot to develop in a certain
way. It also makes him a more balanced character, since everything else
about him is so exceptionally good; his low IQ is a device that allows
us to relate to him on a more equal level. The proof that intelligence
is not denigrated by this film is the very moving scene when Forrest
inquires about his son, fearing that he passed on his only source of
(unearned!) shame to his offspring. (IMO, this single scene is good
enough to justify Hanks' Oscar.)No, this film isn't about the thing Forrest lacks; it's about the
things that he has, and he has them in spades: honesty, generosity,
loyalty, honor, integrity.The most moving story line, for me, is that of Lieutenant Dan. Forrest
saves his life twice, first physically, by dragging him away from a
firefight in Vietnam, and then spiritually, by being a beacon for Dan,
a lighthouse leading him from a tempest of self-destructiveness to a
haven of sanity and peace. I cannot watch Dan's arrival in Bayou le
Batre, or walking at Forrest's wedding, without tears.Jenny? Yes, she fails to appreciate Forrest's better qualities too
often. But there is some explanation for her behavior towards the end
of the film, and in that light I've decided to cut her some slack.
Again, the film just isn't about Jenny's failings, but Forrest's
loyalty.So, after all this time, I'm happy to finally rate this film... 10/10.

******
1 November 2004
9
Forrest Gump is the typical underdog that will be loved by almost
anyone. He isn't the smartest of all men, but he has a heart of gold
and a lot of luck. I guess some people already start running, screaming
and kicking when they read this kind of comments, but it certainly
isn't as bad as they think.Of course we all know that what happened to Forrest Gump would never
happen in real life. He met Elvis and learned him to dance, he met John
Lennon and two presidents, he was in Vietnam and started the Watergate
scandal ... he even got rich and famous. Of course it is impossible,
but I didn't mind a bit. I thought it was a very nice way to show how
time went by and how he got older. Why do we always need a little
subtitle telling us that it now is "November 1, 2004 9.00 PM local
time"? I loved the idea of showing us everything with memorable moments
in history. OK, some of the viewers don't know their history, so of
course they don't know which time period the movie is talking about.
Well, perhaps it is a good wake-up call for them: learn more about your
history!!! I loved the twists between drama and humor. It made this movie really
special. But a good script alone doesn't make a good movie of course.
Tom Hanks did an excellent job as well, he really made Forrest Gump
look believable, but so did all the other actors. All I can say now is that I really liked this movie and that I gave it
a 9/10. "And that's all I've got to say about that."

******
23 December 2003
5

This is possibly the most overrated film of recent times. The film follows
the fortunes of Forrest Gump. Forrest is simple, but manages to have an
impact on American history throughout the 50's, 60's and 70's. The film is
an American dream and yet something tells me that America is the least
likely place for Forrest to be a success. American culture is all about
conforming to the norm and Forrest simply wouldn't be tolerated in real
life. 

******
12 July 2002
10

I absolutely LOVE this movie!!! In my personal opinion it is the
greatest movie of all time. It has such a sweet story and Tom
Hanks is miraculous in it. If you haven't seen this movie than...
WHAT'S WRONG WITH YOU?! Go rent it!! It's definitely worth the
time. You won't regret seeing such a beautifully written, acted and
put together movie. Not only is the story great but the visuals that
they put together with the script is awesome too. Also there are
beautiful voice overs in it. One of the best movies with voice overs.
Tom Hanks is a brilliant actor and you can truly see that in this
movie. FORREST GUMP ROCKS!!

******
10 September 1998
9

While I would agree that Forrest Gump was not great cinema it was a good
movie with very good acting on the part of Hanks.  However, I would agree
that Morgan Freeman should have gotten the Oscar for his outstanding work
in The Shawshank Redemption, which was more "Oscar worthy."

******
13 February 2010
10
When Tom Hanks won his first Oscar for Philadelphia in 1993 the film
received a total of five nominations. His second Oscar for Forrest Gump
came in a film that received more than double that in nominations and
awards. If Forrest Gump did nothing else it solidified Hanks's
credentials as a serious actor. He would never be doing imitations of
his Bosom Buddies character in films again.It also among other awards also won for Best Picture and Best director
for Robert Zemeckis, richly deserved. The film is Huckleberry Finn like
in its canny observations coming from the man who had an IQ we are told
of 75. But as Forrest also tells us, "stupid is as stupid does". And
Forrest with the hand of an unseen providence comes out a lot better
than some of the clever people he meets in life.Watching the film once again it occurred to me that Mark Twain if he
couldn't have written this himself would have loved the way Zemeckis
handled the character of Forrest Gump. The beauty of Huckleberry Finn
and the secret of its success is that Twain got into the mind of a
child who recorded all the events around him, a child without too much
education. What Zemeckis did was get Hanks into a child like mind who
sees things with amazing clarity stripped of any veneer of pretense.
Which Hanks observes in the people around him and in the events that
shape America and himself from Eisenhower to Reagan.There are two prominent female parts in Forrest Gump. One is for Robin
Wright who plays the abused child Julie as an adult. She is Forrest's
love and best friend and she takes a different path of life one she
chose with more deliberation than Hanks. Their fates though eventually
entwined are radically different. The second major female role is for another two time Oscar winner Sally
Field who now is playing matronly parts, a far cry from Gidget and the
Flying Nun. She gives Forrest the maxims he lives by and in a crisis
they turn out to be more than sound bite clichs.Another award that Forrest Gump won is for Special Effects and an award
it didn't win was for Gary Sinise in the role of Lieutenant Dan Taylor,
Forrest's commanding officer in Vietnam. That's something that does not
compute because the special effects were to show Gary Sinise as a
double amputee with both legs lost in Vietnam.It's some amazing bit of work no doubt about it, but to honor it
without Sinise whose performance really brings it off is ridiculous.
Sinise is the educated one who curses the fate that happened to him,
but in the end by just going with the flow he does prosper in the end.
Sinise lost that year in Best Supporting Actor category to Martin
Landau for Ed Wood, but I think Sinise's performance has had a more
lasting impact.To those Americans who serve our country it certainly has. Gary Sinise
has devoted a great deal of his life and earned treasure to bring
entertainment to our overseas troops in Iraq, Afghanistan, wherever,
becoming a successor to Bob Hope in that regard. He's gone further than
that though, setting up foundations to help civilians in both countries
and contributing to numerous charities dealing with war and its
aftermath. Doing that in my humble opinion Gary Sinise has become one
of the great Americans of our brand new millenia, a lot more than just
an actor. He's forever now known as Lieutenant Dan.In the end though the film belongs to Tom Hanks who joined with Spencer
Tracy as the only two male actors to win back to back Oscars for Best
Actor. Hanks fascinates us and guides us through this film and when
we're done we've seen something very special.If you don't believe me about how good Forrest Gump is, then watch it
for a few minutes and see if you're not sucked in. Like Forrest's mama
says, the film's like life which is like a box of chocolates, you never
know what you'll get until you open it."

******
2 July 2007
10
Forrest Gump is an outstanding movie. Every bit of the movie is
classical. It touches the heart of the viewers on every scene. I love
watching the movie. Its different from conventional movies as it has a
strong plot and is closed to reality and fascination at the same time.
The cast is good. Especially the way Tom Hanks has performed. Its a
family movie. Its a ever green movie. I recommend this movie to
everyone.It touches the heart of the viewers on every scene. I love
watching the movie. Its different from conventional movies as it has a
strong plot and is closed to reality and fascination at the same time.
The cast is good. Especially the way Tom Hanks has performed. Its a
family movie. Its a ever green movie. I recommend this movie to
everyone.

******
16 April 2007
10
Forrest Gump (1994)- 5/5 Tom Hanks, Robin Wright Penn, Gary Sinise, Sally Field, Mykelti
Williamson, Haley Joel Osment. Directed by Robert Zemeckis.Possible spoilers.Fantastic Best Picture winner of 1994 that is heartwarming and
hilarious, "Forrest Gump" is a perfect example of a film to watch on a
bad day. The titled character is just so likable and understanding that
I don't know how anyone could give a negative comment about the movie.
Many dislike it merely because it won the Oscar over films like "The
Shawshank Redemption" and "Pulp Fiction." Don't get me wrong, those two
are great films, but there are some qualities in "Forrest Gump" that
are simply superior. The main character, played as an adult by Hanks,
is... "different." He grows up in the small town of Greenbow, Alabama
with his mother (Field) and the love of his life, Jenny Curran
(Wright), but manages to leave the town and go to college to play
football due to his incredible speed. After college, he enlists in the
marine corps and is taken to Vietnam. After enlisting in the war, he
returns to America to find Jenny and to see where his life takes him,
and it's an amazing journey to say the least. Robert Zemeckis'
direction is excellent and probably the best of his long career. Tom
Hanks never ceases to amaze me in this; it may very well be one of the
best performances in an American film I've ever seen. Wright, Sinise,
Williamson and Field all do great in their supporting roles. The
editing and cinematography are just perfect. A great blend of both
comedy and drama, "Forrest Gump" is a truly unforgettable film that is
just about for everyone.

******
23 February 2007
10
Forrest Gump is truly a magical film or creativity and imagination.
Portrayed by a soon to be superstar in Tom Hanks, Forrest Gump brings
out the innocence and beauty of life. It is a story so compelling, so
well thought out and so brilliantly portrayed it goes down in history
as one of the most imaginative films of the 20th century. Forrest Gump is a boy with a very low I.Q., 75 to be precise. All he is
trying to do is to go through life and be happy. Forrest never
registers much, he takes in a lot and is always looking to be nice to
anyone he comes across. Always an entertainer he is capable of a great
story which you'll see right off the bat. The movie of Forrest Gump is
not really a story but more of a biography of a fictional character. It
is brilliantly done.Tom Hanks has grown to be one of the best actors in Hollywood. His
sense of character development is beyond belief. He is able to take a
pretty much simple character as Forrest Gump is and make him into one
of the most interesting characters in the past 20 years. His sheer
genius and comedy made the movie what it is today and that is a
classic.Gary Sinise adds a very strong supporting role as Lt. Dan who is an old
military 'buddy' from Vietnam. A lot of the mid story of the film
follows the friendship that kindles between Forrest and the stern
Lieutenant Dan. Sinise does some amazing work and is a highly underrate
actor. He brings the fear of life to his character and when him and
Hanks are on screen together, it is some of the best acting in the
film.The film has gone down in history as its amazing presentation of
historical events with a character from the movie in them. Forrest goes
through a variety of events including: Vietnam, the Watergate Scandal,
meeting John Lennon along with some other events of history. Along with
Hanks acting, the special effects used to put characters in those
events captures a lot of people attention and interest.Forrest Gump should not be missed. It's funny, it's smart, it's
brilliantly acted. You'll laugh, you'll cry, you'll have a good time.
Don't miss Forrest Gump.5/5 Stars

******
8 January 2007
3
many people love this movie,some even calling it a work of
art.however,i must respectfully disagree.i found the movie
uninspiring,at best,at mostly one long bore.if you like your movies
heavy on sap,you will like this movie.this movie at times felt like one
long "i'm okay, your okay,we're all okay"inspirational speech.if i want
motivational advice,i'll go see Anthony Robbins or some other guru. all
kidding aside other than the film's heavy handedness,there are a few
good thing about it.the acting was good,the special effects were
decent.the best thing about the movie,however is its 1960's and 70's
soundtrack.despite it good points,the movie is not worth recommending.
3/10

******
22 December 2006
10
Forrest (TOM HANKS)was unlucky when he was child...weak legs,weak
mind,weak social life...when his father was not with him and every body
use to ignore him....he then got his legs strong and proved the world
that he can achieve as much as anyone can-----but the world still call
him stupid and use to ignore him because of his simplicity and naive
behavior. The love of Forrest,his struggle in life will make you cry,I
bet...THe pace of the movie is marvel and the performances are great
specially TOM HANKS..he has played this role so beautifully that you
use to think "THAT GUY HAS SUPERNATURAL TALENT OF ACTING".... In last I
must say...If you haven't watch this movie...you are missing one real
pleasure of life.

******
24 June 2005
10
I have loved and appreciated many movies in my lifetime. If someone
asks me what my favorite is, the one that comes to mind first is
Forrest Gump. It doesn't matter that some other films might be greater,
or more important, or more beautifully executed. I think "favorite" is
still a measure that shouldn't be dismissed.Maybe the major reason it's my favorite is what I consider the main
message. Jenny is a *perfectly* beautiful woman who is focused on
herself. She seems determined to please herself, get high, pursue
whatever adventures she can, without much regard for others. And she
ends up more miserable than satisfied.Forrest is an *imperfect* man, whose every action is focused on serving
others as best he can. He knows how to take risks, make sacrifices. He
knows what love is. And ultimately, imperfect as he is, he is blessed
by being a blessing to others. Everyone he touches in his life is
blessed by knowing him.The fact that he also achieves material success is not the point; we
all know that's a fleeting reward. I think the most meaningful point,
the heart, of this lovely movie is that true happiness depends more on
being blessful than successful.

******
31 July 2012
1
I was shock with disbelief when I saw the top movie of that year was
Forest Gump (1994) instead of Angels In The Outfield (1994) which was
second from the bottom. It was as though society was sucking up to
trash. I don't care who puts this movie up as something it is fact not
worth watching, as most of it was boring, not very entertaining and
certainly not funny. There's nothing interesting about a nerdy Peter
Pan adult whose stupidity can easily be taken advantage of. I see
nothing morally right about someone showing their bare buttocks. I got
the impression that whoever came up with this concept really didn't
have any good ideas and just slap this together to throw at the
audience, just to make a buck. There's nothing worse than insulting the
audience intelligence. The only drama in it is the unpredictability of
what this wacko character would do while loose in the community. If
running you through different scenes/locations is adventure, then that
has certainly taken a back seat.

******
26 April 2007
10
Before I came to this site, this movie was my all-time favorite movie.
But since then I saw many movies that changed my whole perspective of
movie making, and truly many changed my life (in the way I should live
and think) - so I grow apart from Forrest. Before a month or so I was in class and we had a discussion about a
man's will's and boundaries. It came to me in a surprise to see on the
TV screen an example of the discussed subject - I saw Forst run. Why
did he ran? He doesn't know, he's just running - but people found
meaning to his acts and ran with him - and he changed their life's. I felt like crying. I feel like crying. "Forrest Gump" as a truly great, deep and emotional look of life. It
tells us a story of a great life but accidentally breaks our hearts.
It's full of hope and happiness but with a lot of sadness. It may not
be the greatest film of all - But it never meant to be... It is just a
tale of a man named Forrest, Forrest Gump.

******
25 February 2007
10
There's absolutely no doubt this is just a masterpiece. Tom Hanks is a
genius, and a incredible actor(my favorite one). The simplicity of a
man is take to a whole new level. I just think this is one of the best
movies ever.The Script is flawless, incredible, the way it takes U.S.A history and
adapt it to a simple mentally retarded man of the south it's just
overwhelming. The story is great, and it's so powerful it can take you
to a whole new level of identifying with the character.Tom Hanks make one of the best if not the bes performance I've ever
seen. and Liuetenant Dan it's another great actor. Incredible strong
acting, I love also the photography. Probably one of the most flawless
movies ever.Forrest Gump is definitively one of my (if not my) favorite movie of
all time, it is emotionally very powerful. Very Complex and not easy
going and very well done. Flawless performances I just love it. It's
one of those classics that always stays in your mind. I give it a 20
out of 10

******
21 July 2006
10
Forrest Gump is a good-natured simpleton. His below-average IQ has
restricted him (some might say protected him) from understanding the
intricacies of the world he inhabits, and so he is oblivious to the
hate and prejudice of American society.Robert Zemeckis (Cast Away, Back To The Future) and multiple
academy-award winner Tom Hanks (Philadelphia, Saving Private Ryan)
present us with the world as seen through the eyes of Forrest Gump, in
one of the most powerful stories ever committed to screen.Though he may not be the smartest person in the world, Forrest Gump has
achieved some amazing things. Aside from meeting three different
American presidents and becoming a world ping-pong champion, Forrest
has also been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honour for his courage
during the Vietnam War, run across the country several times over
(because he "just felt like running"), inspired Elvis Presley to invent
a new type of dance and exposed the Watergate scandal. At the heart of
the film is a love-story. Forrest and his life-long companion, Jenny
(Robin Wright Penn- Hurlyburly, The Singing Detective), are two
completely different people, and Jenny knows that he deserves better,
but Forrest loves her anyway. "I'm not a smart man," Forrest declares.
"But I know what love is."The acting in this film is nothing short of perfect. Tom Hanks
demonstrates how he will win his second Best Actor Oscar with this
performance. Nobody else could have possibly portrayed Forrest so
perfectly. The supporting cast is strong. Robin Wright Penn is good,
and Gary Sinise gives the best performance of his career as Lieutenant
Dan Taylor."... Life is a box of chocolates," Forrest announces at the beginning
of the film. "You never know what you are going to get." This film is
exactly that. Through the eyes of Forrest Gump, you will laugh, and you
will cry. This life's journey is one that you will never forget.

******
4 February 2006
3
In Philadelphia Hanks played a gay man dieing of AIDS fired because of
his sexuality. It took courage to take the part and Hanks used to to
open the heats and minds minds of many viewers. When I first saw Gump I
thought it was sentimental and cloyingly sweet. After talking to a
friend who works with the handicapped my impression changed. Underneath
the sugar coating the movie presents the idea that if people with IQs
below 90 wanted to they could get into the army (Gump would never have
gotten into the army), be war heroes, start successful businesses and
become rich. It makes believable the idea that these people need no
help from the rest of us. Hanks is cute, beguiling and an altogether
'lovable little retard'. The image it presents of real handicapped
people who struggle to get by in our world is callous and degrading.

******
8 March 1999
2

"Forrest Gump" failed to "grab" me from the outset. I kept wondering
throughout what was its point: are we to float through life like a feather,
barely being able to comprehend its meaning? Nothing which transpired did I
find uplifting or involving. Indeed, it was one of the longest, most tedious
journeys I've taken in a film.  Its merits to me are its technology, and not
much more.   

******
13 August 2007
1
I've resisted watching this over hyped lump of a film for many many
years, until this week when my step-son decided that he would inflict
it upon me, stating what a fantastic film it was (he's fourteen - he
knows no better!) This film bored me to tears.I cared for not one of the characters. The story was purile, like the characters and like a lot of Spielberg
films, it was long, tedious and everybody is suppose to say "wow, what
a fantastic film". Well in my opinion, I can't see what all the fuss
was about.

******
5 May 2007
10
One of the best movies in 1994. The best time I watched it, I was still
a teenager, so I couldn't understand it well. And once, I heard it was
on Top 250, I've decided to watch it again. So, after I've done
watching it, it was such an excellent movie. Forrest Gump, an idiot
from Alabama, has witness many historical things. And he even met those
presidents. And he even had his own shrimping company. And Tom Hanks
did such a great performance, he has never done such a great
performance in any other movie. And Robin Wright, played Jenny, which
was Forrest's girlfriend, did a great job too. This movie is
meaningful, it can give you a special message after you done watching
it. Don't spend times on those meaningless movies, this is the best
choice for watching. My vote is ten. Robert Zemickis is great.

******
5 January 2007
10
This movie is the story of a little boy with below average
intelligence, but with a heart that's worth far more than a few little
I.Q. points.Tom Hanks delivers this outstanding character to the screen and his
performance is truly captivating; just like the story of his life. The
Beautiful Robin Wright brilliantly portrays Forrest's most cherished
friend and childhood sweetheart, Jenny. And this review wouldn't be
complete without thanking Gary Sinise and Sally Field for their
wonderful contribution to this truly heartwarming experience.Forrest's story sees him touch the hearts of the entire world with his
simple innocence and strong will to do only what is right; making life
better for many people along his journey.Forrest Gump is a movie that you feel as you watch, you will empathise
with the character of Forrest, sharing his experiences whether they are
humorous, heartwarming or tragic. And along this journey you will learn
a great deal about life and its many twists of fate.Good enough to inspire everyone, even the most cold hearted among us.10/10 Unmissable, Unforgettable, Brilliant

******
14 May 2005
10
As my 10 reveals this is one of my favorite movie ever. It's a movie
about what matters most in life...family, friends, love, honesty. I
liked the imagination of the author, the story is simply fantastic and
the acting...well he got an Oscar for it so I got nothing further to
say about it. I think Forest is the luckiest man ever and not because
of the money, because of his naivety. Why? Because thanks to that he
saw only those important things. He didn't care about winning a game or
winning the war, or making money, or buying a fancy car, or having sex,
or any material thing whatsoever.He kept the life simple and I think we
should do the same....except the part with sex :)

******
13 November 2004
10
Firstly, the top ten is this: 1. Good Will Hunting 2. Godfather 1 3.
Godfather 2 4. Forrest Gump 5. Heat 6. Shawshank Redemption 7. Blow 8.
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid 9. The Shining 10. Ferris Bueller's
Day OffSecondly having Forrest Gump at an 8.1 average is ridiculous, who in
there right mind votes less than a 9?? Watch it again, its exceptional.
And if you don't like it and think 'this guy's an asshole' try viewing
the above list and try that on for size.Thirdly, Hanks is a fine actor, not quite in the league of Pacino, De
Niro, Nicholson, Walken or Brando, but he is in the
Newman/Norton/Cage/Depp/Spacey/Freeman bracket and that says something.
I would put him in just above them but just below the greats. Fourthly, how the film follows and depicts American culture through his
life, and cleverly entwines his simple experiences within important
historical context is captivating and endearing, sad and funny. Hanks
plays the role better than any other could.Fifthly, soundtrack. Step back through time and listen to differing
social periods as they role from one to the next. Buy this and you wont
be skipping many of the tracks.Sixthly, see you later.

******
1 May 2004
4

I didn't mind this movie too much the first time I saw it, though I
thought
it was very over-rated and wondered what the fuss was all
about.I caught it again recently and got more irritated with it the longer it
went.I'll admit that the shots integrating Tom Hanks into historical footage
are
impressive, technically. I'll admit that Hanks, Penn, and Sinise give very
impressive performances. But I'm really starting to hate this
movie.I know, I know...of COURSE it won Best Picture--it's cynically designed
from
top to bottom to do that. It's supposed to teach an important lesson about
life while tugging at the heartstrings as big historical events unfold in
the background. And what is that lesson? It pays to be stupid.Well, gang, sorry to burst your precious little bubble, but it doesn't.
You
won't find guys like Forest running corporations; you'll find them in
trailer parks, beating their kids. Them clever folk, with all that book
learnin' you so despise, are running the big corporations, and they're
laughing their way to the bank over the real morons, who watch crap like
this and think it's great and then vote in Forest-like mental midgets to
run
the country.The worship of the "wise fool", the disdain for education, and the myth of
the self-made man are a few things Western, and especially American
culture
would be better off without. Anything like this cynical and manipulative
film, which perpetuates them, should be despised, not lauded.


******
12 August 2000
10

This movie is one of few movie that makes you a better person after you
watch it. Excellent acting and directing makes this one of the best movies
ever made. With all the garbage made in Hollywood this film restores your
faith in movies.

******
15 September 2006
9
''Forrest Gump'' is a very beautiful movie that totally deserves to be
in the top 250 from the IMDb, receiving nothing less then six Oscars,
including Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor. The story is a
lesson of life, showing the simple and mentally challenged Forrest in
an epic journey through life, meeting historical figures like
Elvis,John F. Kennedy,Richard Nixon, Jonh Lennon, among many others and
experiencing first-hand historic events, while largely unaware of their
significance, due to his low IQ of 75.Even misunderstood by many people and considered to be ''stupid'' by
them, Forrest has more success in his life then many of his ''normal''
friends, receiving many honor medals, becoming rich and inspiring many
people. The movie is a lesson of life and shows how people who are
discriminated can have more success then many of the ordinary ones.And Lt. Dan Taylor, shows how people's minds can change through the
years, when he first wants to die in the camp with his soldiers, and
years later, thanks Forrest, that saved his life from the death.I think everybody should watch this awesome movie at least once in a
lifetime.

******
27 September 2006
1
After I saw this movie I had only one thing in mind. Are we all so
stupid that we don t want to be successful? So even a dummy is better
than me? I don t think so folks. Life is hard and success is like
lottery. As per Tom Hanks....what can I say??? He s perfect for the
role. He really looks stupid. I ve never been a fan of Hanks, and after
seeing the movies he played in, I m convinced I ll never be a fan.
Anyway, the advice I get is: don t go to work every day, just run for
days and someone will notice you and get you into the White
House...That s not even fair, but it doesn t bother me, since it is
really comic.

******
1 June 2000
3

Forrest Gump is a bad, bad movie.  It is an idiot going around falling
backwards into heroism, fortune, and friendship in a very unrealistic
fashion.  It has no importance to society whatsoever. It adds nothing to
one's personal enlightenment and does not make you think in the least.  I
suppose it is supposed to be a "feel good" film but it is too long and
boring to be that.  The fact that it has gotten so much praise
notwithstanding  winning Best Picture just makes me hate this film even
more.  If it is a feel good movie, let it be a feel good movie, but don't
try to pass it off as some monument of film making and give it the same
award as Schindler's List received and Saving Private Ryan got screwed out
of.  This movie is as retarded as Forrest himself is.


******
25 February 2006
3
In 1994, a mega hit movie came out. Millions of people went to see it
in theaters, and adored the lovable main character; Forrest Gump.
Forrest Gump later received six academy awards (including best picture
and actor), and was even ranked as one of the hundred best American
films of all time by the AFI. I pose a question to you, the reader; is
something wrong with me? Because Forrest Gump, in my eyes, is,
possibly, one of the hundred WORST movies that I've ever seen. Forrest
Gump boasts a FAIR performance by Tom Hanks, starring as the title
role. That, perhaps, is the best part of this movie, and it was only
par. In terms of the story, which could be the worst part of this
movie, it is completely pointless. It may be entertaining to watch,
but, in the end, it is two and a half hours of a retard (75 I.Q.)
prospering in life. This could be a really great movie, but there was
no struggle involved. Forrest Gump simply had life and all of his
achievements come rushing towards him. Forrest Gump advertises the idea
that you can just slide through life effortlessly; that is not true.
All in all, Forrest Gump is just a big, overrated disappointment.

******
9 September 2010
1
"Forrest Gump" professes to be all about innocence, but is certainly
the most pernicious highly popular movie of my lifetime, whose subtext
is the message that there is something virtuous about invincible
ignorance, which will be rewarded in all sorts of improbable and
arbitrary ways. An exercise from beginning to end in magical thinking,
the movie undermines the manifest fact that achievements in life should
and must be earned, and that understanding proceeds from knowledge,
which must, in turn, be gained through education, the broader the
better. "Forrest Gump" was the perfect vehicle for the reactionary
Reagan era, with its "what me worry", feel-good-about-America message,
regardless of what we were (and are) doing, and however much suffering
we may countenance or cause (whether in Vietnam, Chile, Guatemala, El
Salvador, Angola, or Iraq, then or now). The movie was also a major
piece of propaganda in the then new revisionism regarding the Vietnam
War that began under Reagan, depicting anti-war activists as the
perfect fit for that most tenacious of "urban legends", the spat upon
veteran (the only people who spat upon the veterans were the Johnson
and Nixon regimes that put them in harm's way, and then dumped them on
the streets without providing any transitional or sustained support
before PTSD was fully acknowledged as a consequence of trauma in
combat). This movie is also a perfect fit for the kind of know-nothing
nativism expressed by the likes of Sarah Palin and the "Tea Party"
movement, and thus a sad commentary on the present condition of life in
America as well. It is not a "Candide" for our time.

******
25 February 2004
1
I loathe and despise this film on so many different levels.Firstly, how did Tom Hanks win an Oscar for speaking very slowly. I
have never seen such a collective display of acting incompetence be so
highly lauded.Secondly, The central message of this film is (spoilers) America is
better than everywhere else in the world. Don't get me wrong, I like
America. I love Americans, I waste massive amounts of my time and money
on movies, music, and books produced in America- but this bloody movie
is a typical of why so many people now seem to be anti-US. If you look
at the lengths the "good" characters go to conform to society's ideal-
his mother having sex with the principal, for example- they will behave
in an immoral fashion to further their own lives within the American
ideal. Furthermore, just in case this subtle point flew over the heads
of the audience, the sole character to attempt to break from this
conformity is killed with AIDS.Thirdly, I know it is a movie, a work of fiction etc, so there must be
some suspension of disbelief, but this simply goes to far. How does a
mentally handicapped kid from a redneck backwater manage to meet a
significant amount of noteworthy 20th century figures, and be present
at so many of the last centuries significant events? Also, why does
no-one tell him where to go when he is waffling on at the bus stop?Next Up- no-one ever seems to comment on this, but this film is BORING.
It is a string of randomly connected events, some of which are so
tedious that when I first saw it I literally felt my brain melting. For
example (spoiler) when he goes running for god knows how long for no
apparent reason- then stops again for no apparent reason. The sheer
pointlessness of this section made me want to cry out of frustration.
This film is 2 hours and 20 minutes long- not an epic by any stretch of
the imagination, but at least half an hour over time. The running
section could easily (for example) have ended up on the cutting room
floor without detracting from the movie in any way. This is actually
typical of so much of the movie- (spoilers) Elvis does not add anything
to the plot (except irritation), the table tennis scenes, the section
with the prostitutes in New York, I could go on and on but frankly
cannot be bothered. The basic storyline, as reliant as it is on
suspension of disbelief etc, is essentially quite simple.
(spoiler)Retarded boy from red neck backwater attends several famous
events and through god's good graces and America's providence has a
fabulously successful life, whilst losing the only woman he ever loved,
and making some life-long friends. Easy, biographical story, not
without a heartwarming premise. Instead we have a bloated, appalling,
falsely moralistic, repugnant propaganda sequence constructed from a
series of irritating set pieces and laden with pseudo-meaningful
interludes. Why was it not made as a simple fictional biopic?Finally, I am not pro-feminist at all, but this movie made my stomach
turn in it's treatment of the female characters. All the women of the
movie are morally loose- whether it is his mother, love of his life
(the only two complete female characters anyway), or any of the minor
characters (two hookers leaps to mind), they all display a worrying
lack of morals.Overall this movie is 140 minutes of my life that I want back. I feel
violated for having seen this saccharine wrapped pile of excrement- I
think I have given enough reasons for why it is the worst movie of all
time without even going into it's wallowing in sentimentality, or
dismal direction, or even looking at the waste of fine actors (Sally
field, Gary Sinese etc). That Tom Hanks won his second Oscar for this
overrated pile of garbage shows what an absolute travesty the Academy
voting system is.

******
13 September 2005
6
People are always amazed when I talk about how much if loathe this
movie but let's face it, how else should one treat a movie that
encourages people to drift through life and tells you that anything
that attacks conformity and inspires change is evil. When Forrest asks
a girl why she doesn't love him, we are expected to feel sorry for a
narcissistic retarded fellow who doesn't see why someone couldn't fall
in love with a brain-damaged freak. a film that dehumanizes the
counter-culture, makes history seem like a mere play-thing to the
idiotic and shows that if you just float through life, you'll last much
better than those egg-heads atheists commie pinkos who tried to survive
and were sent to Hell by the Almighty.

******
23 April 2001
1

Whether you see this at face value as a loving look at a "slow" guy who
makes good or as a comment on American, it still adds up to "Americans are
simple in the head". Boy do they love a film that reflects this very
wholesome American love of the "common" dullard. Forrest would actually be
teased if not killed for being this dumb in the deep south but add a
soundtrack of hits, catch phases, and Tom Hanks' bad 'tard impression and a
tear jerker is born. Duh, ignorance is bliss.

******
10 October 2006
1
What a load of sentimental nonsense, I mean really! How can we
celebrate the unremarkable life of such a tragic simpleton? I've heard
one misguided fool remark that this was a " truly great film & that's
why it won so many awards ". Well, if they presented awards for time
wasting, mediocre, uninspired, brainless drivel then Forrest Gump would
be the undisputed champion of the celluloid world! Everything about
this equals cinematic dogs mess, from Robert Zemeckis sloppy, gormless
direction to Alan Silvestri's soulless,largely grating musical score,
not to mention Hanks hollow & irritating portrayal of a
drooling,chocolate-offering,life advice-giving mental case. I, Big
Ol'Alex Davies, found this film to be an insult to my superior
intelligence & even my boyfriend, who has broader taste than I, thought
of it as nothing more than sappy cat vomit.

******
31 December 2005
1
(0 stars preferably)I must be the only one who HATED this movie. I know that most of you
really love it, but I don't. I just don't see the point. It's just some
idiot (nothing against mentally disabled people, but he's an idiot)
sitting there telling his stupid story. However, NOTHING HAPPENS! He
talks about all of these things that happened to him, but it doesn't
matter. Would he be any different if these things didn't happen to him?
No. Does any of it affect the plot of the movie? No. Does it matter
that he happened to be in certain places at certain times? No, not
unless you count that they got to show off the technology to splice him
in with historical footage. Also, how exactly is it believable? He
walked across the entire country. Right... He invented the smiley face.
Right... He did a bunch of other stupid stuff that I have forced out of
my mind because I HATE THIS MOVIE. Right... I just don't buy it. I
can't. I wont. Neither should you. Nothing even happens until the very
end of the movie. "But," you say, "the ending wont mean anything if you
didn't see the rest of the movie. That's what the movie's about." No.
It's not. The movie's about nothing. The end is pointless, as is the
rest of the movie. It's not funny. It's not magical. It's not
believable. It's not realistic. IT'S NOT GOOD!If I never hear another "Life is like a box of chocolates" or "Run,
Forrest, Run" or see a Bubba-Gump Shrimp place, it will be too soon.

******
11 September 2013
6
Tom Hanks plays a young southern boy in this sort of coming of age
movie. The story starts as Forrest (tom hanks) goes from being a "below
average intellect" child with walking disabilities. Right from the
start, Forrest overcomes challenges that are seemingly impossible, just
to name one. He later makes a friend Jenny who he soon becomes
inseparable from. Forrest grows up, becomes a star football player in
his college and enlists in the army to go to Vietnam. While in the war
he rescues his commanding officer Lt. Dan and receives the Medal of
Honor, which was awarded by JFK. Upon coming home, he reunites with his
long lost, and now hippie, Jenny. He falls in love with her, only for
her to run off with an anti military friend. Forrest, feeling lost,
starts a shrimp catching business which becomes the best around. Later
he finds out that Jenny was impregnated with his son and they marry.
Soon after Jenny dies. The story makes you have many different feelings
at times, mostly good, but I believe there are too many times Forrest
had overcame these challenges. Sure, people overcome some incredible
odds at times but I think there were too many thrown into the plot. The
story comes off as far fetched most of the time but it doesn't really
ruin the movie. Overall, it's a good movie. Don't get me wrong. The
movie just isn't as good as people want it to be.

******
29 August 2010
9
Forrest Gump is one of my all time favorite movies, not only because
it's a great movie but it shows plays out many events in history. It
has many morals and quotes that pertain to everyday life. For example;
"Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna
get." That quote is so true about life in general; you never know what
is going to happen next. It's a movie that I never get tired of and
can't help but to love, even if some people say that it is overrated.The only thing that I didn't like about the movie is the stretch of
believing that someone with a very low IQ could accomplish so many
things and randomly be a part of all the events in history that took
place. I mean, I guess it could happen but it would be very unlikely.I would compare this movie to any other movie that has to do with
people with disabilities, such as Radio, a movie that has to do with a
complicated love story and the army such as Dear John.

******
24 January 2010
9
I can't believe the vitriol hurled at this movie. I have seen this
movie a number of time since it was released, and it never fails to
move me and make me laugh.And by the way I am a liberal, Ivy-league educated guy who went to
college in the 60's, protested the war (and still thinks it was one of
the biggest mistakes in American history) and has never voted
Republican in his life. And I never thought of this film as a secret
right-wing propaganda movie until I read the reviews here. In fact, it
pretty accurately depicts some of the characters during that time. For
example, the abusive, self-important boyfriend of Jenny's during the
march on Washington was all too common (and someone who Jenny, as an
abused child, would have been drawn to, unfortunately). Some guys who
were against (or just avoiding the war) apparently needed to prove
their manhood. Hence the SDS-a lot of those guys were real dicks- I
know, I was there.These characters are individuals- not symbols. As for Forrest, he goes
to Nam, yes, but he is color blind, unlike everyone else depicted in
the movie (black and white) and stands up for a battered woman. Those
seem like pretty liberal virtues to me.His great qualities are his loyalty and non-judgmental and loving
nature, which are independent of his IQ. There were plenty of very
stupid people of Forrest's generation who behaved very differently
toward blacks and women. Jenny's father is a perfect example.So maybe its an American cultural or generational thing, because I
notice a lot of the film's bashers are from Europe. Lighten up. Its a
fantasy, a comedy and yes, has a large dose of nostalgia for the music
of the sixties and seventies.

******
13 July 2009
7
"Forrest Gump" was the "big film" of 1994, being both a huge commercial
success and the winner of six Academy Awards, including Best Picture,
Best Director for Robert Zemeckis and Best Actor for Tom Hanks. It
tells the story of a man and his journey through life, and is told
using a framework device in which the title character narrates his
life-story to a succession of people seated next to him at a bus stop.Forrest is a young man from Alabama, probably born some time during the
1940s, although the timeline is rather confusing. He suffers from what
would today be described as "learning difficulties", although his
athletic abilities win him a place in college on a football
scholarship. The film follows him though his college days and his time
in the Army during the Vietnam War, where he is awarded the Medal of
Honor for his heroism in saving the lives of several members of his
platoon.After leaving the Army, Forrest becomes a leading ping-pong player,
playing against Chinese teams in "ping-pong diplomacy". (The sport is
always referred to as "ping-pong" in the film, even though its players
normally prefer "table-tennis"). He then goes into the shrimping
business and, more by luck than judgement, ends up making a fortune,
becoming head of the "Bubba Gump Shrimp Company", named after himself
and an Army friend killed in the war. (In a curious example of reality
imitating fiction, there now actually is a seafood restaurant chain of
that name). On a whim, Forrest decides to go for a run, and ends up
running for three and a half years, crossing America from coast to
coast several times during that period.A feature of the film is its hero's meetings with the great and the
good; he gets to meet three Presidents (Kennedy, Johnson and Nixon) and
other celebrities such as Elvis Presley and John Lennon. These scenes
were achieved not by using actors but rather by using special effects
to insert images of Tom Hanks into old television and newsreel footage.
One of its Oscars was for Best Visual Effects. Such effects seem to be
a common feature of Zemeckis' films; others such as "Who Framed Roger
Rabbit?", "Death Becomes Her" and "What Lies Beneath" are also notable
for creative use of CGI.Contrasting with Forrest's story is that of the great love of his life,
his childhood sweetheart Jenny. Whereas he leads an essentially
conservative lifestyle, she embraces the counterculture of the sixties,
all radical politics, drugs and promiscuous sex. Eventually she marries
Forrest while suffering from a mysterious virus (presumed to be HIV,
but never named in the film as such), and dies shortly afterwards.This contrast has led to political controversy and to allegations that
the film promotes conservative values. The conservative simpleton
prospers, whereas the left-wing intellectual does not. The wages of
radicalism are death. Certainly, the film takes the standard liberal
line on issues such as racial integration and the Vietnam war, but by
1994 these issues lay two decades in the past. Culturally, its politics
are much more conservative. Hanks's dictum that "the film is
non-political and thus non-judgemental" has never convinced me. There
is, for example, a lot of satire at the expense of the perceived
hypocrisies of the hippie movement, such as Jenny's boyfriend who is
against violence in Vietnam but not in his private life, regularly
beating her up."Forrest Gump" was one of the films in which Hanks, seen in the
eighties primarily as a comedy star, managed to reinvent himself as a
serious actor in the nineties, and brought him his the second of his
two successive "Best Actor" Oscars. He is certainly good here, much
better than he was in, say, "The Bonfire of the Vanities" or "A League
of Their Own", two earlier films in which he had tried to take on more
serious roles. He plays Forrest as a sort of holy fool, a man whose
simplicity allows his inner goodness and decency to shine through. The
character became something of a cult hero, and some of his nuggets of
cracker-barrel philosophy, such as "Life is like a box of chocolates.
You never know what you're gonna get" have passed into popular culture.
(In fact, most chocolate manufacturers provide a guide to their
selections, so you always know exactly what you're gonna get, but we'll
let that pass).The film itself is a reasonably good one, even if its morality as
sometimes rather simplistic, using Forrest's holy fool persona as a
means of commenting on the politics and culture of late 20th century
America. Zemeckis manages the difficult feat of pulling off a delicate
balancing act between comedy and tragedy without the resulting mixture
ever seeming incongruous. Yet I have never regarded it as the best film
of 1994, being merely a good film in a year which saw a number of very
good, even great, ones such as "The Shawshank Redemption", "Four
Weddings and a Funeral", "The Madness of King George", "La Reine
Margot" and "Nell" (which would have been my personal choice for "Best
Picture"). Hanks' performance is good, but not as good as Nigel
Hawthorne's in "King George". I suspect that the film's immense success
may have been due less to its merits than to the way in which its
perceived conservatism fitted the public mood in 1994, the year of the
so-called Republican Revolution which saw the Republicans take control
of both Houses of Congress. 7/10

******
28 June 2009
10
this movie is phenomenal it has changed my life it shows how you can
achieve great things in your life i gave this movie a 10 because thats
what it deserves it is that good and i highly recommend it, tom hanks
did a phenomenal job in his role and so did the entire cast. and when
this movie won best film some people were shocked that the shawshank
redemption or pulp fiction didn't win but this movie did deserve that
academy award definitely. This movie shows how many things can happen
in a life time such as going to college, military, opening a big
business and even death. this movie has really inspired me and if you
have not seen it i highly recommend it. My favorite quote from the
movie (life is like a box of chocolates you never know what your gonna
get)

******
8 June 2009
10
I've always liked the movie Forrest Gump ever since I was a little kid.
It's a real classic and Tom Hanks just does a fantastic job as Forrest
Gump. In the movie a man named Forrest Gump while waiting for a bus in
Savannah Georgia tells his life story of growing up in Greenbow Alabama
and playing football for the University of Alabama and then going into
the army and fighting in Vietnam and then starting his own successful
shrimping business and then fighting for the love of his life Jenny
Curren and running across America. My favorite character in the movie
was Lt. Dan (Gary Sinise)and I liked it when he asked Forrest if he
found Jesus and Forrest said I didn't know I was suppose to be looking
for him sir! That was so hilarious that I almost died laughing! Forrest
Gump is a true classic movie that'll go on forever and ever! It's my
favorite Tom Hanks film along with Cast Away! 10 out of 10!

******
2 June 2009
9
Lost count on how many times I have watched this masterpiece, but
sincerely I would love to watch it many more times in the future. The
title role played by Tom Hanks has become one of the most loved
characters in cinema history . The character who is primarily dumb with
an I.Q below 75 and who according to his teachers and other people
around cannot achieve anything in life, achieves something that is a
dream to even the perfectly normal people . Forrest goes from playing
in the college Football team, to working in the U.S Army, from
graduating college to playing ping-pong at an international level and
from running the entire span of America continuously for 3 years to
becoming a millionaire with his shrimp business. That is a lot of
achievement and he does all this with the same amount of dumbness and
stupidity he is born with. The other characters in the movie, Forest's
Mom who stood by him his entire life, His love interest Jenny who in
her younger days picks up the drug habit and goes the hippie way, and
after she is matured marries Forrest and gives birth to a son but dies
in the end. His friend in the army days Bubba, and his commanding
officer Lieutenant Dan who then becomes his business partner etc. All
these characters are well written and have a considerable role to play
in the making of Forrest Gump as a person. One cannot miss mentioning
the references of world famous personalities such as John Kennedy,
Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, Elvis Presley, John Lennon etc in the
movie and their coincidental relation with Forrest.Tom Hanks has portrayed the role of a lifetime and he got awarded for
it - Best Actor Oscar. His improvisations for the role such as voice
modulation, walking style and just looking plain dumb all went for him.
Overall, you cannot be called a Hollywood lover, if you have not
watched Forrest Gump :)Ratings : 9/10

******
18 March 2009
10
The movie title is Forrest Gump.Tom Hanks is Forrest Gump. Forrest as a mere child do not warking one person and.. reliance a
machine..High school and university football player a president certificate.Soldier is Vietnam war a president certificate.Ping-pong player enter for a president certificate.Vietnam war time a fellow soldier is Baba along promise a millionaire
shrimp fisher.Runing 2 year is famous.Forrest Gump is wild life..He is in life first love Jennie.. IQ75 Forrest Gump..The movie is 100point in 100point.. very good..

******
28 September 2008
8
This is the kind of movie I love. Forrest Gump is a movie with a great
story, a cast of entertaining actors, a powerful score, as well as an
interesting take on history. The movie didn't seem to have a single
dull moment. From the start to the very end Forrest Gump captured your
heart and wouldn't let go. The movie was also very well done. It
rightfully earned all 6 of the Oscars that it won. The only weak aspect
of film making I noticed was some of the editing. Some of the scenes
didn't flow as well as they should have, I don't know if this was the
editor's fault or if there just wasn't the right footage to work with.
That however is easily over looked due to the quality of the rest of
the film making. I would recommend this movie.

******
10 June 2005
7
Forrest Gump is the story of Forrest (Tom Hanks) who is not a real
intelligent man but has appeared present at many historical events and
had been involved in the war but through it all is still infatuated
with Jenny Curran (Robin Wright) also starring Gary Sinise and Mykelti
Williamson.Forrest Gump is such a powerful story of courage and determination, it
was never a film that appealed to me until I saw it 5 years ago. Tom
Hanks is a very powerful performer and gives you the ability to feel
every emotion in this film, with aspects of comedy, drama, war and
death there isn't anything negative displayed in this film and thats
why it will be one of the great films of all time.Excellent scenery, realistic storyline with humor in all the right
places, great film.

******
5 November 2004
10
Forrest Gump is not a very easy film to look at without really needing
to move into depth and vision.The film seems not to allow for a capsule
summary and personally it doesn't want to be characterized.The truth is
like that in many ways because it stands for something that stands the
test of time and perhaps thats what makes some of this going not
particularly simple.Its difficult not to like this film and more so how
we are looked at perhaps as a remnant of time.The early going for the
parent was not so easy to understand because there was a lack of
humility exhibited by gumps mother but gump was not brought up a
certain way that would allow for a typical response and so we have an
unusual storyline.Doctors can have that kind of sobering effect on
developing youngsters,no one reading this can say otherwise because we
all grew up.The bullying and clever positioning of scenes is not always
enjoyable but it is a way that we are being poked fun at or begged to
have a sense of humor.There would of long been a number of fights had
that occurred when I was in those grades and indeed I think that here
the picture starts to tell us something about
bravery,honor,ingenuity,and good fortune.Forrest Gump can run like the wind.Clever,witty and it certainly does
keep your interest.However its got to stop this is absolutely
ridiculous and that when the story begins to go backward.I thought the
anti-war protest scene was a great pitch for an everlasting value,it
was unfortunate that the female had no more sense than most of those
deals back then because what was represented in the heart of this very
decent man was true love.Perhaps,perhaps,perhaps it is terribly moving
his involvement with jinny.It would of hurt to have gotten all those
letters back and so much so that in reality this relationship would not
of matured.This is a complicated area because it is suggested that she
was the victim of child abuse perhaps though not stated even maybe more
so than just abuse.It is further suggested that that was the cause of
jinnys proclivities as she wondered about the country side.It is even
more involved than that and that she had no home life and only one
parent and then not even that.We certainly have the idea here of two
youngsters jinny and gump both of which do not share or know what it
would be like to have both parents present in there upbringing.The girl
is something of a wreck from the start as her idea of stardom in that
bar scene was ridiculous.I personally don't have the time nor the room to really look at what it
was that this movie attempted to say.Why would you have a naked broad
on stage with a guitar singing how many roads does a man have to walk
down before you call him a man,?If all roads don't lead to Rhome I
wouldn't know ?This perhaps was a good way to showcase gump more so
than other aspect of this film because the broad was in a dump and
doing what so many of them do and what is that?I really don't know
because it would not of occurred to me nor did it occur to gump that
she was his one and only.The tragic idea here has to do with two
essential aspects of love,importance and pleasure.The young girl
continues to move away from a central point and away from true
love.This is the nature of the rebellion in her and eventually she will
discover that she has lost something very dear,even very close to her
heart.It maybe her love of her parent or maybe her love for forrest
gump,however that lost idea is going to fool her into beleiving in
something that is not important nor is the pleasure that it provides of
a lasting value.I cant provide all that is condoned with its place but
it isn't friendly and that is where forrest gump shows the audience
what is more important and that is a love of abiding faith so deep as
to be though over history.The placement of this picture suggests that
there is no place like home,that being greenbaugh,alabama and quite
frankly I agree.The suggestion is very appropriate and perhaps well
placed.I think Forrest Gump was a bit over simplified as no one could
be that stupid or could he.I think the scenes in college are about as
enjoyable as college gets and his military service exemplary.He was
trained very well and did this nation a service by representing the USA
as one of its ping pong ambassadors to china.There is so much that Iam
not going to go much father due in principal that unless you cant see
it Gump is the right man.He has a gift and it is about to pay off.This
really doesn't answer what everyone else is doing or what else may in
fact be going on but the unbelievable happens Apple Computer.I think
thats a smile and so was his road running.The feather theme by Alan
Silvestri is worth mentioning as a beautiful piece of music.Like I said
this is not a simple film nor is it exactly what it appears either.

******
22 September 2004
10

Spoiler The best thing of forrest gump that i appreciated that the
phrase "Mom always says.." or something like that. This provided a
mature point of view and indeed everything that comes after these few
words are all concerned with aspects of life. They teach us they very
basic of living and our surrounding.The next thing about Forrest Gump is the character itself. Being silly,
he is so independent. He does not care for any other person's view and
does what he wants for his satisfaction. He is a true simple and honest
person. However, throughout the film Forrest has been somewhat of a
lonely character. It is really painful to see that when he got what he
always wanted: JENNY, the latter was to die shortly.


******
30 June 2004
10

Forrest Gump is one of the best movie of the 90's, at least I think so.
Forrest Gump's story is exciting and funny, the way it is presented by
a not so clever man (Forrest Gump) is genial, and Tom Hanks is
marvelous. The role fits him perfectly. But of course, Robin Wright
Penn, Gary Sinise and Sally Field are also good. This movie deserves
all the awards it has taken, maybe even more. Forrest Gump's specific
lines: "Stupid is who stupid does", "My mom always said...", "Life is
like A Box of chocolates. You never know what you're going to get."
make the movie better. Gump's happenings - first he was able to walk,
then he played rugby, then he got medals for his activity in the army,
he was a table-tennis champion, became a millionaire and ran for 3
years - are fantastic. The script is fantastic, the actors are
fantastic... The movie is FANTASTIC!!!


******
2 April 2004
10

This oscar-winning film chronicles the life of Forrest Gump (Tom Hanks), a
man of lower than average intelligence.  To give away the plot would take
away from the magic of the film.  Let's just say Forrest Gump takes place in
a variety of historical events and leads an extraordinary life.  And, in
spite of all his accomplishments, Gump's childhood sweetheart, Jenny (Robin
Wright Penn) continues to elude him.All of the actors shine in 'Gump', especially Robin Wright Penn, as Jenny,
and Gary Sinise, as an army lieutenant whose legs are amputated, both give
tender and heartfelt performances.  But Hanks steals the show, in what is
arguably the best performance of his career.  Hanks is excellent in
portraying a man who is unable to understand the hypocritical and unjust
nature of society. But acting is not the only thing that makes this movie
remarkable. 'Forrest Gump' is just simply film-making at its finest.Rating: (10/10)

******
7 March 2004
10

Personally, this is my all-time favorite movie. I know most of the lines and
quote them regularly, much to my friends displeasure. Everyone knows the
classic "box of chocolates" quote, but its not even of my favorites. I
especially like the beginning where he says "Momma said they'd take me
anywhere! they was my magic shoes." You can often see me walking around
screaming this. Call it obsession or just idiocy, but I love this movie. It
depicts everything good in the world today. This movie should be a lot
higher (or lower as it may be) ranked. I personally HATED Lord of The Rings
and I think Titanic only did as good as it did because it showed bare
breasts in a PG-13 movie. Thats the truth.

******
28 February 2004
9

Normally, I detest over use of voice-over narration. I often think to myself
that directors use narration only because they can't think of a better way
to tell the story through the actions of the characters. Why tell the story
when you could show it?'Forrest Gump,' however, is an exception to that personal belief. The story
has to be told through narration because the narrator is in every way the
center of the story. Forrest's innocence, his inability to see the evil in
human beings, carries the movie because he can never lose that innocence.
Forrest is only a step above Raymond from Levinson's 'Rain Man,' and like
Raymond, he cannot change the way he is. And because we see everything from
Forrest's perspective, we witness the world through a child's eyes and laugh
at the irony.The director, Robert Zemekis, uses that laughter to probe our evolution.
Sometimes only through a child's perspective can we look back at how we
failed, how we succeeded, and why. In a world that stresses reason and
practicality, sometimes it's necessary that we reexamine our humanity by
stripping away our cynicism and societal inhibitions, and just take things
for what they are. Realistically, we live in a world that would destroy a
person like Forrest Gump. But by watching this fairy tale we understand why
it shouldn't, and it fills our hearts when it doesn't.What a wonderful movie.

******
9 January 2004
8

This is a good film for Tom Hanks. He plays a good role as Forrest. I
never
read the book but I liked the movie though. It was funny, especially the
part where he drinks fifteen Dr. Peppers and has to go to the washroom
while
meeting John F. Kennedy. I liked it though, it wasn't Tom Hanks best films
but it was still good.

******
24 November 2003
10

In my opinion: This movie has everything! It is a fantastic story about a
boy, who isn't really intelligent and so normally he has no perspective -
but with the love of his mum and a few simple-and-easy principles he
makes
his way. There is so much fun and comedy in the story. It contains so
much
about love, friendship, trust, comradeship and stupidity ("Stupid is as
stupid does!"). And all this in front of the american history background
from the 20th century.It's simply true: "Life is like a box of chocolates, you never know what
you're gonna get."

******
18 November 2003
9

"Forrest Gump" is about a one man's victory, that shows us that you can be a
winner all of your life even if you are not that smart...
Tom Hanks really shows here an academy award material by playing the lead
part of Forrest.
The film also shows us the history of the u.s and how Forrest always takes a
huge part of it...
great acting, wonderful story 9/10.

******
17 November 2003
9

Forrest gump was an excellent movie that made me cry **spoiler** when
jenny
dies and he doesnt get jenny after he repeatedly saves her over and over
again from childhood to adulthood.  i didnt like the fact that after all
that saving, he didnt see that he could truely do better. but the bond
they
shared when they first met helped me understand the movie and why jenny
was
a key person to forrest.  his journey being told while waiting at the bus
stop has some funny moments and tearjerkers.  tom hanks did an incredible
job portraying forrest, and made me feel for forrest, he made me feel
happy
when he does **spoiler** break those braces for his legs and made me feel
sad when jenny goes away after he just came back from the war. take the
movie and watch this with a huge tub of popcorn and a extra large box of
kleenex!   (A A-)

******
1 June 2003
10

This film that touches the heart and soul of every viewer, with its blend
of
patriotic and racial issues that prove what a biased society we live in.
Tom
Hanks sand the other actors made the film not only believeable but you
feel
a part of the historical events covered. To anyone who has not experienced
the pleasure that comes from watching "Forest Gump" i say i give you a
whole
new view on life. This film is a truely historic event in itself.


******
26 April 2003
10

I can't stress this enough: you must see this movie once in your life.
The
acting from Tom Hanks is unsurpassed, the storyline captivates you for
hours
without any pause, and the ending will bring a tear every time.  Movies at
IMDB tend to slowly lose rating points after they are released, and that
is
the only reason I can see for this movie being rated as low as it is.
This
movie is so good that the first time I saw it, I watched it over again as
soon as it ended--the only time I have ever done that for a
movie.You can have your Gone With the Winds and your Citizen Kanes.  The
greatest
movie of all time is Forrest Gump.

******
21 February 2003
9

If they did't have Tom Hanks this movie woulden't have been made. Could
you
put Jim Carry in the place of Tom Hanks in this Movie? Well, you could but
then this movie would be terible. Or what about that Tom Cruze guy I don't
think that that guy could have pulled this movie off and make it as big of
a
hit as Tom Hanks. And every bad thing in this movie is some how turned
into
some thing good. For example, If Forrest wasen't so stupid those bullies
woulden't have chased after him and he wouldn't have learned to run so
fast.
and then he wouldn't have played football and if it wasen't for him being
so
fast he would have been killed in the war. So in conclution there is some
stupid parts in this movie but they are very funny and almost every thing
in
this movie that is looked at as a bad thing gets turned in to a good thing
that eventualy helps Forrest Gump.I give this movie a 9 out of 10

******
16 February 2003
10

Just had the honor of revisiting simply one of the best movies ever made,
Forest Gump. What more can you ask for? Bob Zemeckis directs a film that
will, in some form, live forever. Tom Hanks gives, in my opinion, the best
acting performance since 1994. Alan Silvestri's music soars, while the songs
of the era remind us of the times of our lives. I make films and television
shows for a living. I wonder if I'll ever make a film as good as this. My
thanks to everybody who worked on this classic. As a lover of great movie
making you've moved me to tears.10 out of 10 - Any lower score means the viewer is brain
dead.

******
8 January 2003
10

Forrest Gump is a masterpiece. Watching the
remarkable life of a simple man woven through
the tapestry of recent American history makes
this film among my favorites. Tom Hanks is 
totally believable in the title role, and
Robin Wright & Gary Sinise are both great.
What really makes this movie stand out though
is the way Forrest's life is inserted into so
many historic events...George Wallace trying
to stop integration in Little Rock, Vietnam
protests in Washington D.C., and (my favorite)
the Watergate break-in are among them. The use
of digital effects in archival footage is done
better than I have seen it before. A great story,
filmed superbly, and filled with great acting,
this is as good as it gets. 10 out of 10! 

******
4 January 2003
9

Winner of six Academy Awards, Forrest Gump is still a very popular film
today, despite being out for nine years.Tom Hanks plays the title character who is sitting on a bench, waiting for
the number 9 bus. He's relaying his life story to the people also waiting
for a bus. His story goes like this:As a young boy in a fatherless household, Forrest never got out much. He had
to wear leg braces and only found one friend-Jenny. `They's was like peas
and carrots.' But, they have to go their separate ways, but always wind up
meeting each other again. Forrest goes to the Vietnam War, is a ping-pong
champion, and is a fishing boat captain while Jenny becomes a hippie
scrounging for cash, etc. The life story is fascinating.I've always like narration, but sometimes heavy narration can become
tedious. In some cases, the overwhelming use of narration reminded me of
Fight Club, even though the two films couldn't be more different. During the
end of the film, when Forrest gets to where he was going, the narration,
obviously, wasn't there (since Forrest wasn't explaining it to anyone). I
missed it. I thought that the narration was the best part of the
film.The authenticity of the historic events that Forrest got himself into was
genuine. Not being alive for those parts, I couldn't really relate to them,
but I could relate to Forrest. He had a certain charm to him that made you
root for him as soon as he put the feather in Curious George. Jenny was also
crafted so you could like her and feel sorry for her during her times of
despair.Sally Field plays Forrest's mother, Mrs. Gump, who just is a book of wisdom.
With pithy quotes such as `Stupid is as stupid does' and `Life is like a box
of chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get', it's no wonder why
Forrest is able to get to all of the historical time periods.Hanks was superb as Gump. His southern drawl seemed authentic and his nave
character, he was able to bring out 100%, without me thinking for a moment
that this was someone other than Forrest Gump himself. I thought that Robin
Wright, who plays Jenny, was also exceptional and brought out all that was
needed for her complex character. Field had a small role but also brought
out her best and made me believe that she was Mrs. Gump, not Sally
Field.Gary Sinise plays Lieutenant Dan, Forrest's lieutenant from Vietnam. He lost
both of his legs, but soon meets Forrest again and go on `crazy schmes', so
to speak. His loss of legs was made by wrapping a blue thing around his
lower legs, which allowed them to be digitally removed.Forrest Gump is a touching, moving, gripping, and sometimes funny journey
through the eyes of someone with an I.Q. of 75. You'll never be the same
when you view the world through the eyes of Forrest Gump.My rating: 9/10Rated PG-13 for strong language, sensuality, war violence, and drug
content.

******
1 January 2003
10

This is my all time favorite movie, since the first time I saw
it!
before I saw this movie, people were telling me stuff like "this is a very
serious movie," "this movie is all about life, you have to pay close
attention to every word the characters said while watching it"...etc.Well, so far I've seen this movie about 5 times.  Since the first time I
saw
this movie in high school, I don't really see how serious this story ever
gets (except for some of the really touching scenes, if you wanna call it
"serious").  To me, this story is extremely entertaining, extremely!  I
can't stop laughing from the beginning till about the last 20 minutes (and
the part where Forrest's mom died), then I want to cry.My feeling is that... a lot of people are stretching it too hard to make
it
a serious, meaningful, deeply insightful movie.  It doesn't have to be
(although it can be in some ways).  Forrest Gump can just be a movie of
enjoyment.  Take a break, watch this movie; and take it easy while
watching
it, not every movie has to teach a lesson even when other people told you
so.  This is the most entertaining movie you'll find out there if you are
not spending all your time trying to squeeze out a profound meaning out of
everything in this movie.  

******
20 December 2002
10

Forest Gump (1994)"Forrest Gump" is the definitive movie for all times. Just as films like
"To
Kill a Mockingbird" or "The Way We Were" have not lost their freshness
over
the decades, similarly "Forrest Gump" will be appreciated 40 years hence,
and even beyond.It is amazing how the period songs and period events have been kept at the
periphery but delicately strung into the main story. One cannot but admire
the way the "stupid" man, who had an IQ of 75 when he was small, regards
the
events that are going around him in this crazy world with remarkable
equanimity. Life and its forces, in all its turbulence and romance, find
expression through many angles by way of many different characters who
enter
into Forrest's life. How many attitudes towards life are portrayed here? I
believe it is a difficult question to answer.But finally, what comes out of all this jazz is the beauty of life. A
strong
belief in life and a great hope, such as the great hope that "The Great
Dictator" gave, "Forrest Gump" gives. Each time someone sees the film, the
world becomes a little bit better. I believe that this film is a very good
contender to be the Movie of the 1990's.


******
19 December 2002
9

This is one of those amazing movies that will touch you way down deep
where
it counts. My best advice would be to send everyone out of the house,
unplug
the phone, grab a drink and a bag if chips, and watch this one without
distraction, from beginning to end. This is also a good drama for those
who
would normally avoid drama on the video store shelf.. Go on, guys, it's
worth it!

******
5 December 2002
10

I originally gave Forrest 9 out of a possible 10.  But since then I have
seen the whole movie a couple of more times and parts of it on DirecTV
many
more times.  No matter which part it is in, that part can stand so well
by
itself and still be part of the whole.  I have just gotten to like this
movie more and more with time.  The only other movie that has affected me
in
this way is "L. A. Confidential".  I gave it a 10 to start with so I
can't
raise my vote on it.  In a similar vein, I thought that "The Shawshank
Redemption" was one of the best movies I had ever seen.  I have also seen
it
again in whole and in parts.  It remains as high as ever, but I got that
feeling from the very beginning.  With Forrest and LA, they continued to
improve in my mind with time.  Perhaps, this shows how well done
Shawshank
was that I got it from the very start.

******
5 November 2002
9
Forest Gump is more than a movie. It is a documentary on the 1960's and
1970's. It is well directed, well scripted and well acted. The special
effects were ground-breaking at the time. The musical soundtrack and movie
score also were a perfect match to the various scenes in the movie.  Each
song was a perfect match for the visuals on screen. Tom Hanks became Forest
Gump. It was not so much that Gump made history or that he followed history
as much as he followed his destiny.  His story became history. Reading
history books, I have often wished I could be at some historic moment in
time. Of course, when you force a situation, you never find history. It's is
when you become like Forest Gump, genuine and as a little child, that life
becomes memorable. It is this "be who you are" attitude that drives "Forest
Gump". This is not to say that this movie doesn't have its' faults. The
Robin Wright character has a tortuous and torturous connection with Forest
Gump. Forest never gave up his love for her, although maybe he should have.
Again, destiny brings them together. The same could be said for the Gary
Sinese character and Forest Gump. Fate brought them together, destiny kept
them together. It is the combination of great direction and Tom Hanks that
keeps the movie together.

******
20 October 2002
10

You know a movie is outstanding when it wins Best Picture over Shawshank
Redemption (also one of the best movies of all time), and this film most
definately deserved it. The acting is superb. The writing was unreal. The
casting, amazing. The humor is ingenious. The directing, amazing. A
timeless
movie.

******
18 September 2002
10

"You have to do the best with what god gave you."
Forrest's mother says to him when she is dying and this
inspiring
sentence is just one of many mssages of this brilliant
film.
The film is story of Forrest Gump a boy who comes up from a tough
childhood
and becomes an american football star,war hero (and  is given
Congressional
Medal of Honor),world ping-pong champion,shrimp-boat captain and
tycoon.
Forrest is not a man with individually rosy panorama.Born in
rustic Alabama,he has a bad crooked back and a low IQ.He
does
have a few things good.A capable mother,a girlfriend ,a heart of gold and
a
perfect soul.
There is one important factor in his life.his love for the first and the
only  truelove: Jenny.He knows the meaning of  love better  than those who
think he is stupid.The feeling he has for Jenny is one of the best human
sentiments he has known.In a scene in which Forrest has just saved her
from
a gang of deviants,that she demands him leave her he answers:"I can't help
it.I love you".She
says:"You don't know what love is." and nonetheless he knows
more about it than she does.As in another scene Forrest himself
says:"I'm
not a smart man but I know what love is".
There are  great melodramatic sequences in film that tarry long in
memory.When Jenny revisits his father's house and throws rocks at it in
fury. The scene that Forrest and Jenny have hidden in farm and she is
praying to become a bird and fly away.Or where he hears about his
son,mixed
with his happiness is dismaying fright that his son is not smart too.A lot has been said about magnificent special effects of the film
but
these are obscured by the pure humanity of the story.
Nevertheless special effects are still really stunning.Zemeckis
impeccably interweaves Hanks into original footage of U.S
presidents and events of the era.The miracle of computer
graphics.Tom Hanks always can be counted on to give a strong performance but the
role
of Forrest works well for him.I was impressed by Hanks portrayal of
Forrest.He was so passionate in Forrest Gump and deserved the Oscar for
that.His mannerism , intonation and narration were all perfect.He reminds
me
Behrooz Vosooghi in Sootehdelaan(directed by Ali Hatami).Robert Zemeckis shrewd direction gives this masterful actor
the
tools he needs and his direction is quite intelligent.
Robin Wright as Jenny is fascinating and remarkable here.She
is
beleivable as the object of Forrest's perpetual affection.
Another strong supporting actor is Gary Sinise as captain
Dan.He
gives a naturalistic and breathtaking performance.
The story is also one of the stars and script is flawless.It'll be
difficult for you to lose the interest in the film.
Music by Alan Silvestri is smooth and haunting.
I just can't say enough about this film.Everything was very
good.
It would take more than one viewing to notice everything.
When I was watching the film I was carried away.It had me
alternately laughing and crying and in some scenes doing both
concurrently.The adventures that Forrest undergoes become very familiar
and
make our sympathy with him stronger.My experience watching
Forrest Gump provided me with a pleasant mixture of
instruction and amusement.It stole my heart in a way that
other
flims could not reach,
So if daily contests are menacing to drag you under and if the toils
of life are breaking you down,there is a film out there that can
enliven you.Because Forrest Gump is an energizer for those
who
have jaded hearts and spirits.


******
31 August 2002
10

This movies is one of the best made. It has it's flaws, but shines through
perfectly. There's not much else I can say since it's been stated here, but
this movie is not for everyone(especially those who can't stand drama and
comedy at the same time). For those who do like drama and comedy, give this
one a go. From that perspective, this movie deserves nothing less than
9/10.

******
25 August 2002
10

After reading most of the IMDB comments about Forrest Gump I'd like to
regard to some of the counterclaims (people who haven't seen this movie yet
can read it too, there's no actual spoilers):The main problem of the people who disliked this movie is either they're
way
too sarcastic or just way, but WAAAY too "literal". All the comments of
these people manifested one of those two. They just don't understand that
the plot of Forrest Gump is almost totally figurative! I really don't get
you people, Forrest Gump is not only unique, it EXQUISITE, it surpasses
everything a good movie can be! If this isn't a 10+/10 movie, I don't know
what is.When other movies poke you STRAIGHT IN THE FACE some reprimands, or moral
lessons, or "confrontations with God", or personal life journeys, or dark
sides of the world such as war, child sexual abuse, drugs etc., you grimace
and say "damn, another unoriginal preaching piece of crap". But when you
get
Forrest Gump, the most genius movie ever that servers you all the above
mentioned plus much much more in the most original, creative, imaginative,
emotions-evoking way, you cavil and scorn it, say it is boring,
implausible,
ridiculous celebration of stupidity, has insidious offensive messages...
Come on!The superiority of this movie is how it makes a fictitious, fantastic,
improbable story almost a believable one. But let's say you don't believe,
ok. Then you go and look for messages, and what do you find?
Right-wing/American Dream propaganda? Patronizing southern/black/rebel
people? Go on, dig some more, miss the real gist. Miss the opportunity to
see what's our world like through the eyes of an innate virtuous man
lacking
grudge, greed and falsity, miss true love, honesty, loyalty, friendship,
miss the force to overcome personal catastrophes, miss the different
meanings of life, destiny, miss the MOST ORIGINAL CHRONOLOGY of the
well-known American history events... and much more. Make fun of the
inspiring scenes such as the cross-country running (& many more), the
excellent scenes of Forrest's effects on the history, the funny scenes such
as the smiley-face, or other exciting ones... if I continue, I'll write
here
the whole script! Every scene is brilliant, just BRILLIANT! I for one just
can't help myself from admiring the one who created this story, this plot.
it IS unbelievable. Unbelievably amazing.I won't detail my feelings and opinions about the movie, it's plot and
symbols, it would be too much. I just hope all the people who patronize
both
the character of Forrest Gump and the spectators who loved the movie, will
find also their EQ (Emotional Quotient), and place it somewhere beside
their
mighty IQ. Seriously, give it another chance from a different point of
view.
Please try.P.S: I can accept (just to accept, not to understand, not to agree) the
opinions of those who disliked the movie - but the only one I just can't
GET
is the claim that Tom Hanks got an easy oscar. I don't know whether or not
it's easier to act retarded, but I think this role was one of the hardest
ever, and Tom Hanks has done it superbly! Even when Hanks isn't talking,
his
facial impressions are speaking instead (e.g. the can-touch-a-robot scene
where he asks about the intelligence of his son).. His performance is just
too real to call it acting.
Gary Sinise and Robin Wright are magnificent too.

******
13 August 2002
10

NO SPOILERS.My previous comment about "Forrest Gump" was extremely shallow, because I
wrote it under the influence of the user-comments I had read here before,
that evoked all the feelings I had in me, and utterly made my whole "English
words repository" die out. I was just shocked by the way people scorned this
exquisite movie - I didn't even think it can be disputed! I can't believe
that so many people have missed the gist of this movie... I am myself very
sarcastic about everything, but I can't find a SINGLE flaw in this one, I
really can't.How can people ignore the opportunity to LIVE in our world for 2 hours
through the eyes of a different, unique, INNATE VIRTUOUS human-being? You
can't imagine what you miss. My only advice to you is to search for your
feelings that must have been hidden somewhere, and utilize the SPELLBINDING
EXPERIENCE called "Forrest Gump".This movie's gist is not about dimwitted people, or about the American
history, or about how to succeed in life. It's about Forrest Gump, an
(unfortunately) fictitious man, that doesn't contain an ounce of wickedness,
or fraud, or falsity in himself. He doesn't even realize how much of these
last mentioned things our world has within it, he scarcely can recognize
them. However, when it comes to his true & only love, Jenny, he's able to
confront them, and protect her from any hurt. And he DOES KNOW WHAT LOVE
IS.How can you not to empathize with him, not to love him with all your heart?
What is this drivel about this movie making fun of black or southern people,
or saying you have to sleep with or drag after other people to succeed in
life, or distorting the American history? That's nonsense!! Bubba, Gump's
black friend, can be white as well, and it will make no difference. So is
the "American history" aspect, that is only able to contribute to this movie
but not detract from it (even if you don't have a clue about America and
it's history - this movie is still perfect!)
EVERYTHING is captivating in this movie: The unique plot, the funny lines,
the quotes, Forrest's running times, his naive & optimistic point of view at
the war and all the bad things, his true feelings and love that make us love
the ones he loves just because he loves them... although they don't always
deserve it. I just don't have the words to express all the things this movie
has contributed to me. It's more than a movie to me, and all I have left to
do is to be happy that there are people who feel the same.P.S: Tom Hanks - thank you... Gary Sinise & all the others - magnificent
job!

******
26 July 2002
10

Forest Gump is one of the best movies I've seen.
People who don't like, or are bashing this movie, just simply don't know
what life is about. You have to be without a soul to dislike this
movie.

******
16 March 2002
10

I adored this movie when it originally came out. Then I saw it too many
times and I started to dislike it. Then I saw "The Shawshank Redemption"
and
"Pulp Fiction", and I wondered how those movies lost to this one on Oscar
night. I started to hate it, even. 7 years went past, and I hadn't watched
this movie once. But, Saturday afternoon tv is dull. There was nothing on,
except "Forrest Gump". So I decided to watch it, after all it had been 7
years. It was very easy to get caught up in the movie. No matter what
anyone
says now, Tom Hanks is nothing less then perfect as the dim witted Forrest
Gump. The facial expressions he takes when he's trying to be sly, when
he's
proud of himself, when he's sad - its watching a fine actor at his best.
Robin Wright it wonderful as the ever elusive Jenny; as is Gary Sinise as
the angry but loyal Ltn. Dan. Mykelti Williamson is heartbreakingly
memorable as Forrest's best good friend Bubba. It's fun to watch Forrest
make his mark on history, yet be uneffected and even naive about his fame
and fortune. There's no doubt in my mind anymore as to why I loved this
movie, why everyone loved this movie. Sometimes, you have to be prodded
into
remembering why you loved something. I think I'll pay attention to movies
on
TV on Saturday afternoons more often; maybe I'll rediscover something else
I
forgot. 

******
3 March 2002
10

Best Story.
Usual theme. Interesting actors. Good soundtrack.
If you think of film look Titanic. If you like history and personal bias -
in great detail you should see Gump and silently get into the world of
happiness, big resolutions, XX century wind of changes.
Look  - just be a patient audience and he show you .. nothing. May be you
might look into the your own life or maybe you just need to tell your story
or just take carefully the letter or postcard from someone.
Keep it simple. Buy only good chocolate.

******
5 February 2002
10

I first saw the movie in theater and last week I got the DVD and watched it
again. I knew it was good however this time I was deeply effected.Both the
cast and the crew is fantastic and sure this makes the movie very good. A
must-see movie... A Tom Hanks classic...

******
24 January 2002
8

Message of this film is very important; that is stop the war, all people
must have the same rights,...All actors play very well, specially Tom
Hanks,
who plays Forrest Gump. There is also a lot of good music in the movie
(rock
music from 70'). Great movie, highly recommended.  

******
6 January 2002
10

This truly is a special film. The fact that some people say it didnt
deserve
the awards it won just annoys me. some people say this film is too mushy,
it's not mushy, it's powerful and moving and carries messages about love
and
fate. While being a moving, emotion story Forrest Gump also manages to be
incredibly funny at times aswell. There aren't many films out there that
can
make you both laugh and cry, but this is one of the rare few. Zemeckis
does
a superb job directing as usual and all the parts are wonderfully cast
with
brilliant performances from the lead rolls. Alan Silvestri's music score
works well and suits the film perfectly.I struggle to find a bad word to say about this film, some would say that
it's stupidly unrealistic. Well yes, with all the things Forrest manages
to
achieve the film does seem a bit unrealistic. But i believe it's supposed
to
be that way to get across the messages of fate and the fact that one man,
no
matter how intelligent can make a difference and can lead a good life.Forrest Gump is a very enjoyable, well made film that everyone should see
at
some point. It stands as one of the best films of the 90s and thats why it
won awards.

******
25 September 2001
10

I rarely comment, but feel compelled.  By reading these comments it is
clear
how often people miss the point of movies.  Someone above mentioned that
Gary Sinise was "the devil incarnate."  It would seem that the language of
the character and his proclivity to use the Lord's name in vain offended
the
person.  While I appreciate that this person may dislike the film and
obviously does not like profanity, I think that this person is missing the
point... and this saddens me.I would challenge this person to understand first, then form a opinion
later.  Withhold judgment, at least until the end of the film.  The person
above let the barest surface of the language cloud their entire perspective
of the movie.  What a shame.  After all, one doesn't have to like profanity
to appreciate the point that artists are trying to make by using
it.In this particular case, this person above, who seems to be very devout,
missed the whole point of Lt. Dan.  In my attempt to voice my own
interpretation of Lt. Dan, and to counter the very poorly voiced opinion
that Lt. Dan is the Devil, I fear that I will introduce some spoilers
below,
so read with care.I hate to spell it out so plainly, but since the person above missed the
point so completely, I will give my interpretation, however flawed.During the course of the film, Lt. Dan was on a very profound and religious
journey.  The whole point, in my mind, of the character was to explore, it
very direct terms, the concepts of faith in the aftermath of tragedy.   His
use of the language, while consistent with the character, also show his
inner turmoil and conflict with God.  Granted, the language is not for
children, but as an adult I can appreciate that Lt. Dan's language was
*supposed* to make me realize that he was at odds with God.  By being
overly
sensitive to the language, this person missed the payoff when Lt. Dan
eventually finds God.  I, as a person of faith, found his story, in the
subtext of the entire film, to be very interesting and
gratifying.Great movies, like this one, have layers upon layers of themes and
messages.
It is what distinguishes them from the normal trash.  While you may not
like the movie, you should at least do yourself the favor of being
open-minded when viewing it.  Otherwise, don't bother spending your money.For example, the character of Lt. Dan, while a very fully realized
character, was also a symbol of many things in the story.  While I will not
say that my interpretations are the only possible ones - I believe that Lt.
Dan, Jenny and Forest were all mirrors of the same character.  All three
characters go on a journey during this film, all fight the same demons in
some form, but all three stories come to a different resolution.  As they
all "run" from their troubles, directly or indirectly, they each take a
different path.  But Lt. Dan's path is that of religious redemption.  To
call him the "devil incarnate" and treat him like a blasphemer is to deny
the entire idea of redemption and forgiveness.Lt. Dan was an obvious symbol of post-Vietnam America.  He suffered
physical
wounds like we each suffered psychological wounds.  And I can still
visualize his final confrontation with God.  I would like to ask the person
above whether they even considered that, high atop the cross-timbers of a
wooden mast, with his arms outstretched, his beard and hair whipping in the
wind, that Lt. Dan looked quite Christ-like.  He called out into the void,
and, as Forest observed, God came to him.  After finding God in the storm,
Gary is given his peace, tames his demons, and is even eventually given his
legs back.  A cured body to match his cured soul.I wonder if the person above thinks any of this symbolism to be an
accident,
or a message of the film.  Frankly, I doubt this person even thought twice
about it, which is what I find sad.  But if they had, I wonder if they
would
have had the same negative reaction to the film.Oh well.
Monkey

******
2 September 2001
10

There's some weird people writin' reviews about this movie.  I'd like to
know how many of these reviewers 'know' how it's so easy to act, quote,
retarded.  Obviously these people have no acting experience whatsoever,
because that, along with acting drunk and psychotic, are some of the
absolute hardest things to do without looking ridiculous and cartoonish. 
Why so much vitriol about a simple movie with a good, decent guy as the
protagonist?  Man, lighten up people!  Learn to enjoy the simpler things in
life!

******
17 March 2001
9

1st watched 8/11/2000 - (Dir-Robert Zemeckis):
Almost flawless story of a man who may have been considered retarded by the
world around him, but had a sincerity of heart that betters most. Some of
the over-the-top accomplishments he dictates to his bus-stop friends seem
added in(especially his running across the country.) Hanks performance
shines consistently.

******
7 December 2000
10

Easily, this movie goes down as one of my all time favourites.  I have seen
it at least a dozen times and it never fails to touch me and bring tears to
my eyes.  Gump was pure perfection from beginning to end.  A movie sure to refresh
your outlook on life and replenish your energy and spirit.  A story of a
simple man's triumph over life's obstacles in his quest for his true love. Tom Hanks gives the best performance of his career, surpassing his first
Oscar winning performance in Philadelphia.  The entire cast turns in
brilliant portrayals of their own, from Robin Wright to Sally Field, with
several "scene stealers" from the talented Gary Sinise. Eric Roth's screenplay (based on the novel) was nothing short of genius and
it kept you riveted to the screen as the story unfolded, waiting to see the
next chapter in Forrest's unbelievable life.  Even after countless viewings,
I am still mesmerized. Through the wonders of special effects, the life of Forrest Gump is
intertwined with a string of historical events resulting in a poignant
journey of life through one man's eyes.  Through all that happens to him he
never loses sight of the one thing that is missing from his life - his
Jenny.  His love for her is the backbone of this movie and is one of the
most moving love stories I have seen on the big screen to date. All in all, the Best Picture Oscar was more than deserved.  While its
competitors were all excellent movies in their own right, Forrest Gump
offers a complete movie going experience - romance, action, comedy, history,
brilliant direction, a unique screenplay and outstanding performances. What
more could you possibly ask for?  A refreshing piece of film-making genius that is sure to become a classic in
years to come. 

******
16 September 2000
10

I think this film is magical . It's got almost everything you could expect
from an epic film ; comedy , drama , satire , philosophy , one-liners ,
quotes , action and even a bit of suspense . The magical thing about
Forrest
Gump is that its storylines are unconventional and it is life affirming .
Few of my friends think likewise . Forrest Gump is heart-warming and
spiritually uplifting in another words .Technically , Forrest Gump is a perfect motion picture . The
cinematography
, the music score and script are ones of the best , if not the best . And
the special effect and sound are the best I have seen . Immaculately done
computer generated graphics are totally genuinely looking and even
unbelievable today . It deserved all the 13 nominations it garnered
although
it got only six as it competed with many strong entries in technical
fields
( musical , art direction , cinematography and etc ) .I totally hate Pulp Fiction which many people here prefer over Forrest
Gump
because it's such a pointlessly violent film which makes foul language
sound
cool . The Shawsank Redemption is a fine film but not as great as many
people have claimed . In any light , Forrest Gump is a classic , a box
office success ,  award recognizing film that has a place in American Film
Institute Top 100 films of all time .

******
30 March 2000
10

Forrest GumpDIRECTION %
Beautiful and skilfully put together with images of hope, despair and wonder
ensembled with a view this could be a family movie.ACTING %
Tom Hanks gives a truly stunning performance as the boy wonder who has
dreams hopes and so much bewildered inner torment of a person who is seen as
abnormal.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS -%
So much of this that it often blurs the line between the real and unreal
worlds that Forrest Gump inhabits.PLOT %
Complex and character driven, but can also be seen almost as a children's
movie. This is extremely a hard feat to balance but the movie manages it
well. The themes range from child abuse, disability, the American Dream,
relationship, friendships and the changing face of the 20th century within
an American context - Basically something here for everyone!STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC %
There is strong action and language. But unlike our usually treatment
expected by the main star, Forrest is like a child in adult
situations.MUSIC %
Superb use of sixties music that suits the movie from start to
finish.SOUND -%
The use of many sound creates not only the right atmosphere and environment
that the movie is set, but enhances the feel of Forrest's mind and conveys
it well to the watcher, especially in the quieter scenes.HOOKABILITY %
As soon as the feather flow around the screen!LASTABILITY %
Most people don't want the movie to end!OVERALL '%
One of the finest movies available that can be almost family viewing which
teaches us a subtle lesson about who and what is normal when we treat each
other so badly.


******
11 October 1999
5

FORREST GUMP is a vaguely picaresque story of a mentally retarded but
good-hearted fellow who grows up during the 1960s and 1970s, serving in
the
Vietnam conflict, running a shrimping trawler, and pursuing a very
unlovable
childhood sweetheart.  He has no control over his life, but is not smart
enough to realize it or care.  Gary Sinise co-stars as Lt. Dan Taylor,
Gump's ex-C.O. who follows him around after the war like an albatross hung
around his neck.It's been five years since I saw this movie, but I still remember how it
annoyed me, chiefly by appealing to the basest, most jaded parts of the
viewers' personalities.  The worst instance was when Forrest Gump tells
the
audience that his sweetheart Jenny's father loves her a lot, always
hugging
and kissing her.  In my theater, a raucous, cynical snicker rippled
through
the audience at that line; we are intended to conclude from that statement
that Jenny's father is sexually abusing her, and Zemeckis later confirms
this leap to a sick conclusion.  It is a truly sad commentary both on the
entertainment industry and on the viewing public at large that the very
concept of fatherhood today is so disrespected that for a father to hug
and
kiss his daughter is taken per se as a sign of sexual abuse.Jenny's character is so despicable that Gump's love for her is
inexplicable.
Perhaps it is intended as an example of really "unconditional" love, and
shows what a sorry thing that kind of love is, much like the wife who
clings
to an abusive husband no matter what he does to her.  Her character hits
rock bottom when, having abandoned Gump like a used-up tissue and taken
his
child from him without even informing him, Jenny refuses even to apologize
to him because she was "messed up."  Gump swallows this excuse with
stomach-turning ease.Now I don't want to launch into some Pat-Robertson-like tirade on the
decline of American morality.  American morality is better today than in
the
past in many ways.  Racial hatred has gone from being an accepted norm to
being absolutely intolerable.  Rape is blamed on the victim less
frequently
than in bygone days.  Sexual double standards are being abandoned.
Religious tolerance and inter-faith amity are on the upswing.  But in some
other ways, American morality is deteriorating, and this one excuse, "I
was
messed up," is perhaps the best example.  Every kind of barbarism, from
Jenny's cruel and heartless manipulation of Gump up to and including
cold-blooded murder, is now excused with the phrase "I was messed up,"
followed by an endless litany of the wrongdoer's misfortunes.  FORREST
GUMP
wantonly tries to widen this tear in the fabric of the viewers' moral
thought.  I'm not buying into it.  Being "messed up" may excuse
viciousness
against the person who messed you up; it should never be allowed to
justify
hurting innocent people.The movie's exploitation of the mentally handicapped for cheap laughs is
also tasteless and vulgar (and yes, I will shamefacedly admit, I laughed
at
some of this exploitation).  I may not want a mental deficient like Gump
for
an airline pilot, but he deserves to be treated with at least basic
decency
and courtesy, which this movie doesn't; (i.e. where Gump, shaking Richard
Nixon's hand, says "I gotta pee."  This is funny?).The mitigating, if not the saving, virtue of FORREST GUMP is the acting.
Tom Hanks' rendition of a speech impediment might not fool the parent of a
mentally retarded child or a speech pathologist, but it certainly
convinced
me and the average moviegoer.  Hanks generates the innocence and
pleasantness required of the character, and while the voice grated on my
nerves a few times, it was bearable.  Gary Sinise as Lt. Dan Taylor is
absolutely wonderful, oozing bitterness and cynicism from every
pore.I also give FORREST GUMP some grudging praise for being one of the few
movies to use the wonders of modern digital special effects to actually
drive the plot, rather than distract from it.  TITANIC and JURASSIC PARK
also broke some ground, but for the most part I think that most directors
lack the imagination to get the most out of the potential of modern
special
effects.  Zemeckis integrates the effects into his movies more smoothly
than
most directors have.I didn't really hate FORREST GUMP.  It obviously wants to be loved so much
that hating it would be like kicking an annoying puppy.  But it's morally
obtuse, shallow and vulgar.  The laughs are guilty laughs, and the
philosophy is nothing deeper than the credo that God does indeed look
after
fools.Rating: ** out of ****.

******
4 May 2009
10
Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever
made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film
ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest
film ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made.
Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever
made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film
ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest
film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever
made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film
ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest
film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever
made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film
ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest
film ever made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever
made.Greatest film ever made. Greatest film ever made.Greatest film
ever made. Greatest film ever made.

******
9 March 2007
10
I agree with most of the IMDb's top 250 list, but two things have
puzzled me. One of them is the fact that Forrest Gump is currently #81
on the list, and a movie that wasn't bad, but not nearly as good as
this called Fight Club, was #31! The other thing was that Forrest Gump
was so low on the top 250 list. I think it should be in the top 20,
right up there with Goodfellas, but it's not!! Tom Hanks basically had
a star turning role in this film. It's one of his best performances to
date and he didn't even make the top 20? The movie was a mixture of
comedy and drama, something that is so hard to do and seldomly keeps
the story in place, but Forrest Gump did. This was brilliantly casted
and very well directed.

******
20 August 2006
10
I've written over two hundred reviews, I never wrote one for this film.
I thought I wouldn't do it justice. I gave it my fourth watch and well,
to say I'm gutted would be an understatement. Have I ever loved a movie
character as much as that of Forrest Gump? No.Silence has been used well, the silence in the eyes of Forrest Gump.
There's something rather powerful about his expressionless face. It can
emote comedy, unconventional charisma but above all, a deep sense of
sadness. I know this a rather bold statement that would raise a lot of
argument but just for the sake of Forrest Gump and my love for this
film, I can safely be abrasive and say Tom Hanks gave the best
performance for a male ever in a lead role. I do not know whether I
should commend the direction, or the screenplay, or the background
music and screenplay because all I remember of when I think of this
film, is Tom Hanks and that look on his face.Forrest Gump is special. In a weird way,I would like to think every
movie watcher relates to this story. It also manages to nail all
emotions. When I watched this film for the first time, I thought about
it for a week. With every new person, I meet in my daily life, or date,
there always is a conversation about forrest gump. And I like
mentioning to them how I lock my doors while watching this film because
I wouldn't want anybody rushing to see me.The awkwardness in his actions, is similar to that of the character
Edward (played by Depp) in a film called Edward Scissorhands. The humor
is comparable to the great Stan Laurel. The way he
cries,speaks,runs,gestures a hello, gestures a goodbye is HIS own.
People of my age often talk about characters in films like
Godfather(Pacino,Brando), Fight Club (pitt), XXX (Diesel), Rocky
(Stallone) ,etc. They forget the quiet man with an odd face and the
kindest of the simplest of expressions in Forrest Gump. I'm not sorry
if you disagree with me, but the character of Forrest Gump owns all.My favorite scenes from this film - Forrest says to Jenny "Cause you're
my girl" , Forrest turns around to people running behind him and says
"I'm pretty tired, I think I'll go home now", Forrest playing ping
pong, Lieutenant Dan v/s God (storm), Bubba talking about shrimps,
Forrest asking little Forrest what he's watching and sitting beside
him, all scenes involving him running.I criticisize the Americans a lot but this is one of the most American
films I have seen and it stands as the most perfect,too. This, and
American Beauty are the two best films I have ever seen. I pray I watch
a film I like almost 60% as much.

******
25 December 2005
10
Forrest Gump, Jenny Curan, Bubba Blue, Lt. Dan Taylor, and Momma Gump.
Tom Hanks as Forrest Gump, Robin Wright as Jenny Curan, Mykelti
Williamson as Bubba, Gary Sinsie as Lt. Dan Taylor, and Sally Field as
Momma Gump. This movie is spectacular. For 2 hours and 21 minutes I
enjoyed myself watching Forrest Gump. This movie is truly a classic in
my book with most of the phrazies. RUN FORREST RUN, LIFE IS LIKE A BOX
OF CHOCOLATES. This movie is a mix of drama and comedy. Forrest Gump is
a movie to watch almost everyday. After seeing how Jenny treats him who
would think about her anymore seriously. She completely treats him bad
and he still loves her.

******
14 April 2005
6
OK,so straight away I've probably made a few enemies by only giving
this a six.Well let me just say from the offset,I've got a lot of time
for Tom Hanks,and have had since way back.Pretty much any film with him
in it is sure to be of high quality and several of my all time
favourites star this quality actor.I also actually like this film,its
well written,well acted,well directed and the ''action''scenes are
convincing.The score accompanies the drama.laughter and tears perfectly
and Tom Hanks shines as the sweetly naive and childlike Forrest.Sally
Field puts in a surprisingly good turn as Mrs Gump and Robin Wright
Penn brings realness to the role of Jenny,and the rest of the cast are
equally impressive(with perhaps the exception of Young Forrest,but i
cant be harsh to the acting talents of a kid!).So i bet you're
thinking,''yeah OK,so why have you scored it 6?'',well let me tell
you,although the overall quality of the film is high,its the overtone
of the film that bugs me.There's an undeniable right wing rhetoric
running through this movie,played out through the two main and very
opposite characters,Forrest and Jenny.Forrest goes through life without
questioning it,he takes things very much at face value,he is told what
to do by various characters throughout his life and he does it without
question,and as a result he becomes a war hero,meets Presidents and
makes millions.Message there?Don't question,follow orders/instructions
and you will be a success in life.Then we have Jenny,shes
outgoing,streetwise and lives life to the full,if not always
sensibly,and what happens to her?she gets HIV and dies!So Forrest
follows orders doesn't question,and gets rich.Jenny lives for fun,and
gets dead.How right wing is that?!Its this subtle but definite overtone
that makes me only give this otherwise classic film a 6.

******
23 March 2004
10

This film I watched for the first time when I was 8 years
old.
It had me rooted to my seat for the entirety of the picture and even
then
i knew that I would see anything that moved me so much.
It takes serious things and turns them into an educational, comical and
more dramatic version of history itself.
The film uses characters like Bubba and Forests drill seargent to really
take this film to new levels. Forest himself represents the naive child
looking at the world as an uneducated person without the real wisdom of
his
age group.
To watch this film as a child is probably the best thing that you can
do.
You feel almost as if you are forest instaed of just pitying him like most
people do. I think the point of the film is to show that through the eyes
of
a child the world, and whatever difficulties it is facing, really can seem
magical if you just look at things without the educated colour that we see
today. Forrest has an ability to look at things more plainly and more
black
and white that others do. I think that for this reason this film should be
the best film ever. After people have watched the film it has the impact
of
empathy on it's imeidiate audience so that for ten minutes after the film
everyone feels together and unified.
This film is the greatest film of all time and if you ask me it is
unquestionable.   

******
3 July 2013
1
An idiot young guy will run and run and run again for everything. He
will run when he live any problem. And finally he will be very smart man and role modal for peoples. So if
you are an idiot you can run for be a smart man.Who can like a story like that? Peoples think so cute about that. They are looking that movie, like a
funny cat videos. But i can't. Fortunately i'm not alone.http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0109830/reviews?filter=hateSo only waste of time.

******
25 April 2010
3
I am a massive fan of Tom Hanks cinema. Having watched over 1,400 Tom
Hanks films and having heard of Forrest Gump and reading the IMDb
reviews, I was expecting an enjoyable film. In addition, I was excited
to see Tom Hanks and Sally Field play off of each other.After the opening sequence the viewer will recognize that this film
explores wildly unrealistic outcomes for the benefit of entertainment
value  and it works for about 20 minutes. At that point this viewer
was thoroughly hooked.Afterwards, my enjoyment was severely crippled when Hanks's character
loses his memory and starts acting like a brainless halfwit. Seriously,
he acts like a mentally retarded 5-year-old who likes chocolate. Now
don't misunderstand me  I love chocolate too, but to see Hanks
munching on cocoa bars while acting the imbecile does not qualify as
cinematic entertainment. Five minutes after this plot development was
introduced, I was praying that Hanks would snap out of it very quickly.I apparently should have known better. This stupid plot line drags on
for 75 friggin' minutes and single-handedly destroys the entire film.
It should not be surprising that the screenplay was written by Eric
Roth, who gave us the utterly overrated piece of crap-infested garbage
known as The Horse Whisperer and other subpar efforts like Munich
(2004), My Schoolmate the Barbarian (2001), Ordinary Measures (1992),
as well as other superlative pieces of trash like The Curious Case
(2002) The Good Shepherd (2008). His only good script was The Concorde
... Airport '79 (1989), but then again, even a broken clock is right
twice a day.The fact is simply that Roth couldn't come up with good material, so he
made Tom Hanks a certifiable lunatic who does lots of stupid things
that have no comedic value whatsoever. It's much easier than coming up
with a clever screenplay.I'm truly perplexed at the raving reviews of Forrest Gump here. Does
everyone really enjoy seeing Tom Hanks act like an annoying retard for
75 minutes? It's simply unbearable.

******
17 December 1998
10

I loved the whole story even though it was a tad corny at times. I think
great acting and the content of the story kept it
going. 

******
8 September 2002
1

have you ever watched a movie and at the end of the movie, you just couldn't
figure out why it was written? this happened to me when i saw forest Gump.
who writes a movie about a retarded guy who happens to be involved in every
major historical event in the 60's and 70's, what would inspire someone to
take such an undertaking. the movie is flat out stupid. the plot was silly,
the writing was absolutely horrible, the directing, reprehensible however, I
read some reviews which say this movie is about right wing politics, to the
contrary, the movie is all but right wing, in-fact it's quite liberal.
Nothing infuriates me like a horrible movie getting so much revere and
attention. 

******
2 July 2003
1

This is one of the dumbest films I've ever seen. Tom Hanks is horrible.
The
premise is ridiculous. To think there was millions spent on this bunk
shows
how bad people's taste can be. First of all you'll never meet a person
that
mentally disadvantaged that can play football to any degree of excellence.
This is Hollywood at it's worse.

******
9 October 2000
1

I waited until I had seen this film for the second time, before making a
judgement.  My initial reaction was correct it is one of the worst films I
have ever seen, only Bean was worst.  The film fails everywhere apart from
the acting.  The script, locations some appalling dialogue and dreadful
sentimentality, that must be lost on a non-US audience. Absolutely awful
1/10

******
2 April 2002
1

I just didnt like this film, I found it unbelievable that a retarded guy
could do this much....cmon! pah-leese!this movie is weak...
period

******
17 February 2002
1

Typical Tom Hanks vehicle that should never have rolled out of the garage.
A
mixture of yokel and idiot savant, Hanks is as bland as ever in this role.
Gurk gurk gurk. The best parts of this film are the supporting actors.
Hanks
should go back to his bachelor party.Life is like a box of chocolates, and these ones have gone
off...

******
12 June 2003
1

The book is wonderfull, Winston Groom wrote a comic masterpiece but
whoever
adapted it for the film is a complete and utter hack. I could barely sit
through the movie and when it was over I wanted my two hours back. My
advice
is read the book and don't ever see or think about the movie
again.

******
20 August 1998
1
Did I see the same movie as the rest of the world? I thought this movie
was lousy. It couldn't have been less interesting. The only thing that got me was how they made Gary Sinise's legs
disappear; and that was a momentary curiosity at best, an interesting
f/x. That was very well done, no question about it.I am very sentimental, at least when it comes to movies; this movie
didn't touch me at all. Tom Hanks was obnoxious, at best. Robin Wright Penn is miscast and I
have yet to see her in a movie in which she should have been in. I love
Sally Field but even she cannot rescue this for me.This may be the movie I dislike the most...the fact that it won Best
Picture, Actor etc. makes me hate it even more, and usually I don't
care what the Academy thinks since I question the whole thing to begin
with.

******
7 April 2003
1

Why do people love this movie?  This movie is not only completely
unrealistic, it's also boring.  Almost everyone I know who saw this movie
and wasn't middle aged said they liked the movie but it was too long and
kind of or too boring.  Does that make sense?  When looking back at this
movie, did it really give you anything back?  This movie is illogical,
stupid, pointless, and umm... like before I get too redundant, annoying.  I
was hoping that Forrest Gump would die in the war or like get hit by a car
when he was running.  That would have been hilarious and then this movie
could have been up there with Toxic Avenger and Braindead.  And the Academy
Awards are a joke.  They don't recognize really good movies usually, and I'm
stil in shock that American Beauty won since it actually deserved an Oscar. 
I seriously think that Demolition Man or Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles was a
better movie.  At least Wesley Snipes had a cool hairstyle.  Go rent a
classic like Vanilla Ice's Cool as Ice or C.H.U.D...  Forrest Gump sucks and
isn't he more like an anti hero?  I'd rather have Leatherface or the Toxic
Avenger, but who doesn't root for them anyway?  

******
2 April 2010
1
Forrest Gump is the story of a guy with a low IQ and his journey
through life, encompassing the homespun apple pie America of the 50s
when everything was rosy and American interventionism led the world
against the evil Communists, the horrible 60s when those nasty dirty
hippies tried to usurp American Interventionism and God-given right to
invade other people by protesting against the Vietnam War. (Shock,
horror, Nixon was right all along!) and the crisis-torn 70s, when all
those nasty hippies were now drug-addicted Aids carriers that caused
American Interventionism and God-given etc, etc.You get the point. The issues raised in the movie were far more complex
than the mindset on display here, with good and bad on both sides of
the argument. America is a wonderful country with wonderful people, but
it can't feel good about itself so the film-makers just rewrite history
so it CAN feel good about itself. It takes more than a movie of course
but apparently people want to be convinced that Interventionism is not
such a bad idea; still working well, isn't it? Gump's a decent guy, of
course. He isn't judgemental for one thing. Perhaps if we were all
afflicted with similar IQs no one would question anything, and American
Interventionsm etc etc....I liked Gary Sinise's performance as the war veteran amputee, just
another decent guy who has every reason to feel bitter. Pity the movie
then has his character rounding on the left-wing draft dodgers and
hippie protesters who didn't go to Vietnam, but tried to stop the
conflict; perhaps he would better off rounding on the people who sent
him there in the first place???This is a great movie for reactionaries. "God damn it, I told ya that
was the way it was!" Bet they all give it a 10.

******
5 August 2001
1

I am an easy going movie watcher and I am easily entertained by movies on
all levels like Die Hard, Scream, Beetlejuice, Titanic, NBK, Splash, Mary
Poppins, etc. But I never understood what was so great about this movie. I
didn't see any charm in it at all. The Pulp Fiction guys should have won
the
bulk of the oscars not this.I also agree with one of the comments above that it is easy to act retarded
and that Tom Hanks wasn't great. Really Boring, I even watched it again
just
to make sure it was boring. Thumbs Down!!!!

******
8 February 2004
10

Where shall I begin... This movie learned me to look at things on a new
way.
And not have the same look at all things, but look at things from a
different angle. Forrest's tragic life, where everybody he loves dies,
helped me to see that there's another opportunity. Clear it out. Don't
worry
about it, but go from the stage you stopped. It really touched something
in
me. And I appreciate that the director has made this movie. Thanks. Go and
see the movie, and think it over. It really helps you to wonder how
beautiful life is. 

******
28 November 2003
10

This movie is from the greatest movies ever!
One of the best that I saw in my life...
I allways saw it when I was little, it is a beautiful movie!
I recommend to everybody to see this movie.

******
28 September 2003
10

This movie maybe the best movie I've ever seen, it's a biography of
someone
, I enjoyed watching this movie and tom hanks, as a leading role in this
movie, was absolutely magnificent , also he is my favorite actor , so
everybody get this movie and don't miss watching this great
one.

******
3 August 2003
10
FORREST GUMP is one of the most unforgettable films I have ever seen.
Director Robert Zemeckis marked his place in Hollywood with the hugely
popular Back to the Future trilogy. Tom Hanks climbed the ladder of
success starring in comedy movies like Splash and Turner and Hooch in
the 1980's, but hadn't had critical success until 1993 when he starred
in Philadelphia with Denzel Washington, which won him his first Oscar
for Best Actor. The movie also features outstanding performances from
little known actors Gary Sinise (Apollo 13, Ransom, Deception), Mykelti
Williamson (Heat, Con Air, Three Kings, Ali) and Robin Wright-Penn,
credited as Robin Wright, (Unbeakable).FORREST GUMP starts off with the title character (Hanks) sitting on a
bench waiting for a bus when a young woman comes and sits next to him.
Here he starts his story by remembering his first pair of shoes, which
in the film are leg braces. Forrest tells us how he met his life-long
friend Jenny (Wright-Penn), how he served in the Vietnam war and how he
spent years running for absolutely no reason.Hanks plays Forrest Gump in a way that makes us feel what the character
is feeling so most that we develop a sort of relationship with him.
Gary Sinise has an excellent performance as Lt. Dan Taylor who hates
Gump because he saved him in Vietnam because he believes that he should
of died on the battle field but late becomes his friend, and who says
that Sinise can only play bad guys? Robin Wright-Penn handles Jenny's
drug addiction and the scene were she tries to commit suicide
brilliantly. Mykelti Williamson plays the part of Forrest's friend
'Bubba' Blue, whom he meets in the army, excellently considering that
this is the movie where he gets the most screen time that his ever had
in the movies that I've ever seen him in. Sally Feild (Mrs Doutfire,
Homeward Bound, Homeward Bound 2: Lost in San Fansico, Legally Blonde
2:Red White and Blonde) plays the part of Forrest's devoted mother very
well. The little boy who in years to come would rise to fame, Haley
Joel Osment (The Sixth Sense, Pay it Forward, A.I.), make an appearance
as Forrest Gump Jr.. Haley, Mr. Simonet (played by Kevin Spacey in Pay
it Forward) would be proud. This was one of the best movie's of 1994,
others included Pulp Fiction and Speed.*****

******
15 June 2003
10

Tom Hanks, once again, at the top of his game. Acting was incredible.
Forrest Gump is a triumph! Deserving of all awards won. Robert Zemekis
gives
viewers a chance to see life in a different way. Tom Hanks was fanastic
and
I recommend to all viewers this extraordinary movie that will stay in our
hearts for a life time.

******
13 June 2003
10

FORREST GUMP is among the greatest movies of all time.  It's a kind of movie
that grows on you and never wants to let go.  Tom Hanks is at his best
playing a Southern boy whose life is affected by many various moments of
U.S. history.  Robin Wright provides a cute love interest in a movie that
never gets tedious or boring.  FORREST GUMP definitely stands the test of
time and is still enjoyable to watch to this day.  A cinematic
masterpiece.5 out of 5

******
13 June 2003
10

When a movie hits you're eyes like Forrest Gump,you can tell this will be
a
good movie.Comedy,drama,romance,war,and much more.When you see that leaf
fly
to the ground,you can taste the drama.When the movies are at their best,
this is one.

******
30 November 2009
2
So... a guy with an IQ of 75 is the man behind pretty much every
important event in American History from the 60s onwards? And all of
that while being blissfully UNAWARE of that? Please... I would have
almost bought it, had it been a comedy, or a parody.But Forrest Gump is damn serious, or at least it looks like everybody
took seriously that stinking pile of feel-good garbage and its cheap
message.I even fail to see a clear political agenda in that god-awful movie: it
somehow manages to reunite both right and left-wing, with its
glorification of America and of the American Dream achieved by the
walking stereotype of leftist self-righteous and hypocritical
egalitarianism.But regardless of its alleged political orientation, Forrest Gump is a
cheap collage of implausible situations, a far-fetched melodramatic
story about a man who got lucky and didn't even understand it.Honestly, instead of heartwarming and touching, I found Forrest Gump
utterly revolting.

******
30 November 2003
10

Forrest Gump will be a forever timeless movie. There is much to love about
this film and it fully deserves its place as one of the altime top movies
around. I've been reading some imdb reviews and most agree. Of coarse Hanks was magnificent-when I think of Forrest I don't think of
him as even being a movie character, he was so lifelike. I guess thats the
mark of a great actor when they can create a character that lives forever in
our hearts. This movie had an innocence about it-an idealism that I loved-I loved
watching the changing face of the country as time went by and I thought
Robin Wright Penn was also magnificent-Some people have mentioned the
movieis not true to life. Isn't it? Every day there's another story about
someone who makes it against all odds. I'm not saying the things that happen
to forrest happen to all these people-but -in a time when most "news
stories" are about violence and crime and people who DON'T make
it-occasionally one hears the stories of hope-people who aren't given all or
ANY the breaks who SOMEHOW-have the strength and perseverence to carve out
their own niche. Unfortunately, the reason we don't hear these stories that
much is because they aren't given the attention they should get. I had heard
once(don't know if this is 100 percent accurate) about a newspaper or
magazine that once only reported about good and remarkable occurences-and
wound up going out of business! Oh well.... The point is, I think this movie is VERY  important because it has the
ability to inspire. And in the times we live in that is always a good thing.


******
21 January 2014
2
Other than the acting of Tom Hanks, the acting of the co-stars, and the
set pieces, this movie is just not worth the hype, and I really hate
myself for saying that. Tom Hanks plays Forrest Gump, who one day is
sitting at a park bench waiting for a bus when he begins telling his
life story to a woman sitting next to him. Over the course of a few
hours he continues telling his story while different people come and go
until his story catches up to the moment where he began sitting at the
bus stop. His story involves many different points in his life where he
unwittingly becomes involved during several historical events during
the 60's and 70's, meets a number celebrities and presidents,
influences other people and has a significant impact on society. All
while this is going on his one true love Jenny continues to elude him
while she lives a traumatic life on the edge from drugs, abuse, and
near suicide.Now here is my problem with this movie...Forrest Gump's life is one big
fantasy, a story so outrageous that the movie comes off as more of a
comedy than a sappy drama. For one thing the movie is supposed to be
about going where the wind takes you, living your life a day at a time,
blah blah blah, and yet people seem to forget none of Forrest Gump's
life would have happened the way it did had his mother not had sex with
the school administrator. If that had not happened he would not have
been on that bus, he wouldn't have met Jenny, she wouldn't have
inspired him to run, and the rest of his life would have been far
different. Second, it always amazes me how much success Forrest had with
everything he did in life. He doesn't just go to college then to
Vietnam, he goes to college AND becomes a football star, he goes to
Vietnam AND becomes a war hero, he goes into the shrimping business AND
becomes a millionaire, he learns to play ping-ping AND becomes an
international ping-ping champion. I mean the way things turned out for
him he could put his name on the ballot today, and be president of the
United States tomorrow. If thats the kind of life you get when the wind
blows then I need to go look for a breeze.Third, all logic in this movie is completely thrown out the window. For
instance, during the running across America story, I still laugh at all
the people who just quit their daily lives and started running with a
complete stranger. Did they just feel it was okay to leave their family
and jobs behind? How did they support themselves? How did they eat?
Where did they sleep? How did they clean themselves? Where did they get
clothing to wear when the seasons changed? Fourth, in terms of his low I.Q. are we really sure that was even his
problem. I mean other than a couple of areas where he tended to stare
off into space I never saw any evidence that he was the idiot he was
made out to be. Honestly it looked like he was just born with a lack of
common sense. I mean he sure as hell doesn't have a problem assembling
a rifle together, he takes orders from the military quite well, he can
operate a shrimping boat like a champ and playing ping-pong was like
riding a bike. For a guy who was supposedly that stupid he seemed to
all the things he did far better than the average guy. Fifth, he tells his life story to several different people and even
after he claims to have done all these fantastic things and become an
international celebrity....why do none of the people listening to the
story RECOGNIZE HIM?!? I'd like to think if I was talking to a guy who
was a football star/war hero/business mogul/celebrity at some point I
would be going "hey wait you're that Forrest Gump guy!"All in all the movie had a great concept but the story wasn't thought
out in the best way.By the way folks, I don't care if you are the fastest runner in the
world, YOU CANNOT OUTRUN A NAPALM STRIKE!!!

******
22 November 2009
9
Forrest Gump, I think is a beautiful film. Never too schmaltzy, but
there are some genuine tearjerkers like Forrest at Jenny's grave. The
cinematography is stunning, the costumes are lovely and the scenery is
gorgeous. The music is also very calm and relaxing, perhaps adding to
the tone of this film. The screenplay is well crafted, and the story is
simple. But what made this movie was its simplicity; it never tries to
be too complex and is consequently moving. The acting is just as
impressive; whilst Tom Hanks's accent is a little awkward in places, my
only real criticism of this movie, he gives a truly remarkable
performance, though I do think Morgan Freeman deserved the Oscar more
for Shawshank. Robin Wright gives possibly the best performance of her
career, and Sally Field is very dignified as Forrest's mother. The
scene stealer though is Gary Sinise as Lieutenant Dan, a very moving
and insightful performance. Overall, an extremely good movie, I will
admit I wasn't sure whether I would like it, but the simple answer is
this, I do. 9/10 Bethany Cox

******
17 August 2003
6
Mythological tapestry of historical events viewed through a strictly
left-lib perspective.A film like "Being There" is profoundly more subtle
and
properly Zen,whereas Zemeckis' cartoonish re-hash of this film may have
been
revelatory for anyone under 30,or over 47(in 1994),as I'm sure every war
baby had a s**t-eating grin on their face leaving the theatre,at the
thought
of how their socio-political fantasy of the 60's and 70's had been so
poetically sealed.Required reading for anyone who liked this movie,and
probably won't after they read it: Dostoevsky's "The Idiot".Thank you.


******
2 December 2004
3
This film seems completely to divide opinion. I have to join the group
that doesn't know why everybody thinks it's so great. I find the whole
movie makes me cringe. Tom Hanks has to be the most over rated actor
around. His light weight performance of simpleton 'Gump' shows he
completely lacks any imagination. How this won best picture beggars
belief. It story seems to be made to fit the facts rather allowing the
characters developing on there own. Is Forrest Gump supposed to be a
poor man's Chance The Gardner spewing simple phrases that have profound
comment. Is this how America really wants the history of the sixties to
be remember for? Are we to assume that in the real world the simple
with no vices will really succeed. I'm sorry but I for one found this
mom and apple pie version of life hard to swallow.

******
26 February 2006
10
Oscar-winning film of 1994 with an amazing award winning performance by
Tom Hanks. It's the story of a slow young man who just seems to be in
the right place while monumental events are taking place in this
nation's history.Hanks has never been better. His slowness is beautifully realized and
then audiences know that he is far from the slow person that he is
attempting to depict.Sally Field, as his mother, is equally superb and should have been
rewarded with at least a supporting Oscar nomination. It was amazing
that the Academy overlooked her brilliant performance.Gary Sinise's performance as the soldier who ultimately is crippled is
also splendid.Life is certainly like a box of chocolates. You know what you're going
to get. With "Forrest Gump," you will get the best of the best
chocolates.

******
7 February 2004
10

Forrest Gump is easily the best film ever made. It has a great script,
superb acting and direction, it is funny and also sad and has a brilliant
soundtrack, and some well done special effects.
Tom Hanks delivers the best performance I have ever seen, his acting in a
couple of scenes towards the end of the film made me cry - a well deserved
academy award.
Robin Wright Penn was very good as Jenny and Mykelti Williamson was
hilarious as "bubba," but Gary Sinise should have got a best supporting
Oscar as Lt. Dan
Forrest Gump's involvement in some of the most famous historic moments
also
made this film a real treat.
Pure class.

******
27 July 2012
1
I am baffled by the reviewers who like this movie. I absolutely hated
it and I am only writing this review in hopes that someone will read it
and AVOID watching this worthless film. IMDb requires film reviews to
have a minimum length of 10 lines, so I must say more about the movie.
My intelligence was insulted in that the film tries to rewrite history
by showing Forrest Gump meeting with American presidents (POTUS). Not
just one American president, which would be hard to believe in itself,
considering Gump's obnoxious stupidity, but instead the film shows Gump
meeting with three American presidents in his lifetime. The rest of the
movie is just as unbelievable and ridiculous.

******
7 September 2006
1
At the beginning of the movie we see Tom Hanks about to kiss a girl for
the first time before his tiny weiner is exposed. In this movie, Tom
Hanks does pointless, stupid things, then reacts with screaming,
Hitler-like tantrums whenever his own actions start to boomerang and
hit him in the behind.Since his first appearance on TV, Hanks forced his sick sense of humor
onto the poor unsuspecting audience. Is this what you call
entertainment? Do comedians not have any obligations to the public? How
are Hanks's so called entertainment pieces helping any of us be a
better person? I find it hard to answer these questions.On a related note, I find Hanks incredibly ugly and can hardly bear to
watch him on screen let alone enjoy his "work". Besides, as he plays
the same role in every movie with the same old "jokes" rewinding over
and over again, watching one of his movies is just enough to guess the
others.Before I wrote this comment, I watched additional Hanks movies, might I
add, with disgust. And I confirmed my diagnosis: Stay away from Hanks
movies.

******
7 July 2011
3
Despite the 8.7 average rating on IMDb, the many praising reviews it
receives and the good opinions of my friends, I wasn't really expecting
this film to be anything special. However as it is such a highly
regarded film, I thought it was probably worth watching, even if I
wasn't going to enjoy it. Why I knew I wasn't going to enjoy it; it won
six ocars but other films that were also released that year have since
become more well loved (e.g. pulp fiction, the shawshank redemption),
I'm not a really big fan of Tom Hanks as an actor (shock horror!) and
Robert Zemeckis is definitely my least favourite director, creating
films that (in my opinion anyway) have no real aim other than to make
some cash. So how did it compare to my pre-judgements? Just as I
thought really. There were many problems I found in this movie; to
start with the camera angles and the camera movement made the film hard
to look at visually, as the people and object moving looked very
unnatural. Another problem is that aside from Forrest, all of the
characters seem one dimensional as they were all extremely
underwritten. Leading on from that, for me, the script is a major
problem; the dialogue is incredibly tedious, every line made me sigh
with frustration, but that isn't the main problem with the dialogue; I
watched the film with friends and every few seconds I heard them
laughing at the things Forrest says, however that's something I
couldn't get into, I felt that there is something very malicious about
laughing at a man with some kind of mental handicap. Though the
dialogue isn't the only problem with the script, the whole story is
beyond unrealistic. Although it isn't unlikely for someone to drift
through life and for things to just happen to them, it is unlikely for
the majority of them to be such good and life changing things,
especially for a man with a mental disability, from a non-privileged
background, at this time period. I also find it a little bit sneaky
that they never mention what is wrong with Forrest, it seems to be they
did this so they could include some parts of the plot, for example him
having sex with Jenny and they her having a child, that I doubt would
happen in real life to people in his condition. However, none of this
is exactly enraging for me, the only thing that really makes my blood
boil, is the Vietnam sequence. Films that have been made about the
Vietnam war have been made with the soul purpose to let audiences know,
that war is hell and war will destroy you, but Forrest's narration
tells us that his experience in Vietnam was fun, which goes against
everything films like Platoon, The Deer Hunter, Full Metal Jacket and
Apocalypse Now stand for and aside from a few seconds of footage,
nothing shows the horrors of the war, it's unrealistic and highly
insulting to the people who fought in the war. Though as I have given
it 3/10, there obviously must be a few plus points, there are about
three. The effects that put Forrest in with archive footage and very
well done and well edited, Gary Sinise is very good in an underwritten
part, the fact he didn't win an Oscar is a travesty and there are some
huggable children in it. Though that doesn't make up for the obvious
flaws in this movie.

******
13 February 2005
1
frankly speaking, given that an average Asian people person entrenched
with conservative and Confucian ideology in comparison with Westerners
in particular, i really sense somewhat awkward for not appreciating
this movie way thoroughly although i truly consider it should be a
glorious showdown of self-righteous high social status dudes versus
underdogs advocated and mocked by fates or certain "papacy" when
destiny displays a hideous face.as far as i am weightlessly
concerned,tom hanks delivers an incredible portrayal of a veteran who
unfortunately is a imbecile,meanwhile his slightly overbearing mother
somehow manages to be impeccable and pushy despite the fact that her
son happens to be physically and psychologically handicapped. all the
tragical climax culminates when gump's little son was born and his
overdosed wife passed away. you can clearly see the shock of
middle-class populace wrestles with life and struggles to keep track
with others pace,,however,i remain sort of suspicious why the general
tempo and rhyme of the movie goes so smoothly and peacefully, i am also
not able to totally understand the humor permeating throughout the
whole movie,the genre of which to my knowledge belongs to unique
Americanism.by no means to be offensive but it is destitute of emotive
burst and spicy aggression which is vital to vivify the whole movie.

******
12 April 2007
1
I never knew how low the Academy could stoop when bestowing the coveted
"Best picture" award when it chose to do so for the movie, Forrest
Gump. It is a movie celebrating mental retardation and toss in some
Frank Capra of "Its a wonderful life" fame and the mantra, "you're
never a failure if you have friends" and you get the fabulously
contrived piece of cinematic drivel that is, Forrest Gump. This film is
rarely talked about these days, matter of fact, you never hear it
mentioned AT ALL. It's become the most forgotten "Best Film" Hollywood
has ever produced! Sort of ironic when you think about it because a
best film award should entitle a movie to some longevity on the shelf.
But no. This crappy piece of celluloid demonstrates more the short term
memories of the American people as they the were the ones who seem to
identify most with the character of Forrest Gump. This intellectually
stunted individual is celebrated as the pure embodiment of American
"innocence." How pathetic! You have been warned. Please, don't support
movies of this ilk. It belittles your claim to being a lover of cinema
when you love such trash.

******
4 August 1998
1

Surely Forrest Gump must rate as one of the biggest dupes of all time. Quite
how the marketeers managed to pass this off as a great film is beyond my
powers of reason. Tom Hanks plays the intellectually challenged Gump and
picked up his second consecutive Oscar for his over the top portrayal. A
spectacular job considering the Academy do not normally fall for the same
ploys as the movie going public. Even more spectacular when you consider
that Morgan Freeman was nominated for The Shawshank Redemption. Gump was
the Best Film winner as well, even though Pulp Fiction AND The Shawshank
Redemption were nominated. I would put this film into the same sort of
class as the Wonder Years or Dazed and Confused, nice but nothing special.
It's little more than a period piece chronicalling American Life across
three decades and how it affected one man, namely Mr Gump. The cast is good
with Gary Sinise very good as Gump's Vietnam Sergeant. Sally Field is well
cast as Gump's mother, beyond that there is not much to redeem Gump, the
effects are very nicely added if nothing new and the soundtrack is
predictably well chosen given the period of time it covers. For the most
part it's too mushy, way too sentimental and just not much above mediocre.
In years to come the Shawshank Redemption and Pulp Fiction will be looked
upon much more favourably than the over-awarded Forrest Gump.

******
16 March 2006
8
Wow, I found a number of "good" and "bad" in this movie, too much to go
into detail here without writing what looks like a novel, so I'll
condense my thoughts with notes here. I don't expect many to agree with
me but overall I found this good very good storytelling and a film that
stays with you.The GOOD: 1 - a totally unique story back when it was released and
still that way, unlike anything else I've seen; 2 - an involving story.
You really care about the lead character "Forrest Gump," who is
magnificently played by Tom Hanks; 3 - the story has a good combination
of drama, action and humor; 4 - numerous memorable scenes that you'll
never forget, especially if you've seen this more than once; 5 - an
excellent 1960s soundtrack; 6 - very interesting characters throughout,
with solid performances from Gary Sinise, Robin Wright, Myketti
Williamson and Sally Field; 7 - a realistic look at some of the
unflattering people of the 1960s who were not all "peace and love;" 8 -
a sweet, tear-jerking ending.The BAD: 1 - The Liberal attitude that having children out of wedlock
is just fine is not a good message. ("You didn't do anything wrong,
Forrest," says Wright, after he discovered he fathered her child
out-of-wedlock); 2 - a blatant anti-gun agenda in which every political
shooting is duly noted, along with yet another cheap shot made against
Richard Nixon, Hollywood's favorite villain; 3 - The Lord's name in
vain used 21 times within a 49-minute period, mostly GDs by Sinise.Overall, the "good" far outweighs the "bad," making this a truly
memorable movie and one that is fairly unfairly blasted by a lot of
"critics." Maybe they didn't like the '60s radicals portrayed in a
negative light. That's too bad. I owned this DVD and got rid of it. I'm
sorry I did because I'd watch it again and I've seen it three times.
Love it or hate it - you don't forget it.

******
13 August 2000
2

There must be a lot of Forrest Gump types who vote on this web-site,
because
this has to be one of the worst films I've ever seen. I saw this movie in
the theatre, and my wife and I kept turning to each other and wondering
what
everyone thought was so funny about this movie. I remember one line from
this movie, and it's not the one that everyone else remembers. "Stupid is
as
stupid does", that's just how I felt after this movie, when I realised that
I just wasted 6 bucks on this piece of crap.

******
1 January 2008
3
Every liberal ought to see this movie and have their faith restored in
America. Forrest Gump starts running after kicking off his braces left
from a polio infection and never stops. His task is to overcome his
borderline IQ, 75, just below the edge of normalcy and his trek takes
him on a course through the Vietnam Era, the war, the unrest and the
post - Vietnam malaise.This is an excellent movie for a liberal to reinforce the twin pillars
of liberalism: (a) universal guilt shared by all except liberals and
(b)moral superiority of liberalism.On such sublime matters, Forrest Gump however is clueless. He thinks of
the Vietnam War as a long walk in the jungle and he's waiting on a
check for 'the million dollar wound' that got him out of the combat
zone. He visits the White House to receive a medal and inadvertently
addresses a peace rally the same day.He never loses sight of his objective his true love Jenny who has
turned away from values of any kind and embraced the drug culture of
the Vietnam era. As much as Forrest is guilty of living in wishful
thinking so too are the admirers of this movie.As I see our liberal friends watching this with moist eyes, they're
living in the delusion that just somewhere there must be legions of
young men like Bubba and Forrest ready to go over yonder as clueless as
Forrest.I gave this film a "3" because I did enjoy the liberal world's
perception of people on the outside of its snobbish feeling of moral
superiority.

******
9 June 2008
8
Please understand that despite my summary, I did enjoy this clever
film. There was a lot to like. However, little of the film seemed
Oscar-worthy and it probably should not be in the IMDb top 250. I think
this is a great case of a very good film that has been prematurely
elevated to greatness.As far as the plot goes, with zillions of reviews on IMDb for this
film, I won't even bother. The acting was very good, the special
effects ranged from freakin' amazing (such as digitally removing Lt.
Dan's leg--quite an achievement for 1994) to very, very poor
(inexplicably, despite Forrest being expertly inserted in many scenes,
the one with John Lennon was very sloppy and the seams were very, very
obvious on the big screen). The negatives included a few problems with
continuity (such as the happy face being supposedly invented by Gump in
the late 70s--it had been around for nearly a decade already) and
perhaps too much emphasis on episodes as opposed to story. Still, it's
a very enjoyable film and one you can't help but like. But winning 6
Oscars?! It must have been a very, very slow year.

******
11 March 2005
9
From Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated director
Robert Zemeckis (The Back to the Future Trilogy), this is a remarkable
comedy drama based on the novel by Winston Groom. Basically, Forrest
Gump (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Tom Hanks) is
the low-intelligence but friendly man on a bus stop bench, and telling
his life story to all strangers who sit down. The film is basically
chronicles of his life accidentally ending up in big events of America
between the 1950's and the 1970's, and finding fame and fortune without
wanting or asking for it. These include meeting Elvis Presley, being
put on an American football team for his running speed, meeting
President John F. Kennedy, joining the army for the Vietnam war,
becoming a Ping Pong champion, receiving the congressional medal of
honour from President Richard Nixon, becoming a shrimp boat captain
with his own company and running across America for two years. Within
these adventures in his life, he always thinks of those close to him,
the love of his life Jenny Curran (Golden Globe nominated Robin Wright
Penn), friend Lt. Dan Taylor (Oscar and Golden Globe nominated Gary
Sinise), friend Pvt. Benjamin Buford 'Bubba' Blue (Mykelti Williamson)
and his mother Mrs. Gump (BAFTA nominated Sally Field), and with his
low-intelligence he does not realise the significance of his actions.
Also starring Siobhan Fallon as Dorothy Harris, School Bus Driver,
Alexander Zemeckis (Robert's son) as School Bus Boy, Elizabeth Hanks
(Tom's daughter) as School Bus Girl and The Sixth Sense's Haley Joel
Osment as Forrest Gump Jr. This is one of those films you cannot
ignore, even if some people think not to watch it, but like Forrest
says "I don't know if we each have a destiny, or if we're all just
floating around accidental-like on a breeze, but I, I think maybe it's
both" (this explains the use of the feather at the beginning and end).
Personally, this is a film I would definitely recommend to see, and not
just because of Hanks in what has to be one of his best roles. It won
the Oscars for Best Visual Effects, Best Film Editing, Best Writing,
Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and
it was nominated for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Best
Cinematography, Best Sound Effects Editing, Best Makeup, Best Music for
Alan Silvestri (he should have) and Best Sound, it won the BAFTA for
Best Special Effects, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography,
Best Editing, Best Adapted Screenplay, the David Lean Award for
Direction and Best Film, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Motion
Picture - Drama, and it was nominated for Best Original Score and Best
Screenplay. Tom Hanks was number 3 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and
he was number 39 on The World's Greatest Actor, the film was number 40
on 100 Years, 100 Quotes ("Mama always said life was like a box of
chocolates. You never know what you're gonna get."), it was number 11
on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for Forrest at Jenny's grave, it was
number 37 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 71 on 100 Years,
100 Movies. Very, very good!

******
11 September 2003
4

I remember the BBC coverage of the Oscars in 1995 . Barry Norman was asking
the Brits in Hollywood - Among them Tracey Ullman and Alan Parker - what
they thought of the years nominations and the British view was unanimous
that FORREST GUMP was nothing more than an overated mediocre movie . After
seeing the film for myself I`ve got to agree with the standard British view
- This is an overated mediocre movie It`s impossible to believe anyone outside America could love this movie .
The overated ( Third time I`ve used that word in this review ! ) Tom Hanks
plays Forrest the local town idiot who experiences many of the truimphs and
torments of 1950s 60s and 70s America , and it`s all produced , played and
written in a sickly sweet way , so sickly sweet you should watch this with a
bucket in your hand so you don`t get any vomit on the carpet.Amazing fact . Both American and non American voters on this site give
FORREST GUMP an identical voter average - 8.1 . I`m at a loss to explain
this  

