******
7 March 2016
5
This is a sequel to the successful movie "Olympus Has Fallen." The
story begins in London, where the British Prime Minister has passed
away under mysterious circumstances. Leaders of the G7 attend his
funeral.Group of Seven (G7), international organization officially established
in 1985 to facilitate economic cooperation among the world's largest
industrial nations; summit meetings of the member nations began in
1975. Members are Canada, France, Germany, Great Britain, Italy, Japan,
and the United States.However, what starts out as the most protected event on Earth turns
into a deadly plot to kill the world's most powerful leaders, devastate
every known landmark in the British capital, and unleash a terrifying
vision of the future. Only three people have any hope of stopping it:
the President of the United States (Aaron Eckhart), his formidable
Secret Service head (Gerard Butler), and an English MI-6 agent who
rightly trusts no one.5/10 . It need more action scenes and a stronger plot.

******
3 March 2016
1
SPOILER FREE ZONE Do not watch.Seriously, I warned you. This movie is so bad I felt the need to create
an account on this site to tell people the truth about it.If you're a citizen of the USA who is overly nationalistic, if you buy
into the hype of famous actors who end up having less-than-average
performances, if you just started watching movies last year and aren't
yet familiar with all the clichés you will find in this movie, if you
think a blurry, confused action scene is a good action scene, and if
you don't mind the poorly done CGI explosions and the plot-holes, then
this movie is for you.If not, and if you're really curious about it, just watch the trailer.
The entire movie is there anyway.SPOILER ZONE Here is how it goes: Main character is a typical
American-marine-special-agent kind of dude. He is a reckless,
aggressive, dominant alpha male that can't go one minute without saying
a cheesy one-liner. In fact, almost all his dialogue are cheesy
one-liners. He has a pregnant wife, which is the typical stay-at-home
American mom who cares for his husband.Then there's the typical strong, maternal black women who dies
courageously, the typical hot white girl female fatal which you "do not
f*** with", the strangely naive USA president who is afraid to pick up
a gun and shocked that so many civilians have died because of him
(yeah, right), the typical eastern villain that hates America, the
faceless enemies with storm-trooper syndrome, the traitor that thinks
the system is flawed and accepted a bribe, and Morgan Freeman, who is
presented as a major character but ends up playing a very minor role
that could be done by any novice actor. Yes, from now on, beware of
films with Morgan Freeman. It's not the first time (I'm remembering
Oblivion, with Tom Cruise) that his face is plastered all around just
to make the movie sell, but ends up being an insignificant part of it.
He may have played great roles in the past, but now it's clear he is
riding his own fame.Even then, Morgan Freeman is probably the best actor there. Others are
just not competent. Part of the blame is on the dialogue. It's too
cliché and far-fetched. As told before, Gerard Butler does nothing but
throw down one-liners. He has one or two facial expressions: The angry
look and the tender, loving father look. Which makes him an
one-dimensional character that you won't be able to build an emotional
connection with. He is also an insufferable Mary Sue. The USA
president, on the other hand, is pathetic. They try to make him a
determined, strong American leader, but the contrast with his best man
is just too big. It makes him look tiny, fragile and incompetent. There
is not much to say about other actors. All of them play minor roles and
are easily forgettable. And all of them play stereotypical, far-fetched
roles.Then there is the plot. Oh, god, the plot.It's bad. The pacing is horrible. Action scene, chase, small break,
action scene, chase, small break, repeat. Not much happens in between.
In part because there is no decent plot. It goes like this: the most
heavily guarded funeral in history ends up having some serious security
flaws. And all because one dude in the USA security agency betrayed
them. That one dude is apparently so powerful, or the security agencies
(American and English) are so pathetic, that his simple betrayal goes
undetected and cause the entire defense operation to fail. How did he
do such a feat? How could half the guards in that day be enemies in
disguise and that go under the radar? How could the prime-minister of
England "die in his sleep" and then no autopsy having been made in time
to clear any suspicions of poisoning? Why is Gerard Butler the only one
who "feels" that "something" is about to happen? Why is it that the
most important target (USA President) is the ONLY ONE that stays alive,
and the LAST ONE that the enemy tries to shoot at? Every single point
of this movie is far-fetched.Okay, I'm aware that this is a mindless action movie, and plot and
actor performance shouldn't be taken too seriously. BUT THE ACTION
SCENES AREN'T GOOD EITHER! All of them are ridden with that annoying,
off-putting blur and camera-shake effect. And they aren't original
either. Oh, a last-second save. Oh, a car chase. Oh, the helicopter
crashes and they are all alive and without a scratch. Except the black
girl, of course. Oh, the enemies just send themselves at the hero at
the most stupid fashion and end up dead, every single time. It's
tedious, predictable and shows that they are lazy and didn't really
spend any time to think on good ideas.So if the point of the movie is bad, and everything else is bad to,
what's good? Well, I find the stereotypical representations of the
other heads-of-state to be somewhat enjoyable. There's the female
German Chancellor that is clearly Angela Merkel, the womanizer Italian
prime-minister that is clearly Berlusconi, etc. But all it shows is
that this movie could have been a parody. It is certainly a parody,
with all the exaggerated nationalistic lines and the plot and action
scene clichés, but it's a parody of itself. Its crucial sin is that it
takes itself seriously. But it certainly doesn't deserve more than to
be a punchline of a joke. A bad, boring, predictable joke.

******
13 March 2016
1
I feel sorry for Morgan Freeman that he associated himself with such a
terrible movie. It was awful on so many levels: The acting and
directing were right from a poorly made video game. If our security and
intelligence services are really that bad then we are all truly
screwed. Character development? How do you develop something that
doesn't exist? Script? It would have been better as pantomime. Action
sequences? Pllllleeeaaaase. Maybe compared to a 50s science fiction
movie? Then, to add insult to injury, the gratuitous and completely non
sequitur addition of the corrupt "insider" at the end to explain how it
was possible to infiltrate the country with hundreds of well- trained
and highly armed fighters, wire the entire city with explosives, take
down the entire computer grid, all without anyone noticing. If our
security and intelligence services are really that bad then we are all
well and truly screwed. There is absolutely nothing at all redeeming
about this waste of time and....(I would have said effort, but there
obviously wasn't any.)

******
8 March 2016
1
I must say, if you watch the first seen, just to target one you have
killed thousands present in the weddings including children etc, i know
its just a film and nothing to take with the real world, but this is
actually you Americans are doing for sometime now, and once someone
hits you back with a small thing you guys make a propaganda that you
are being targeted, whereas the true fact is that so far you haven't
been targeted but making target the whole Muslim community, now here in
this movie you guys tried to make your Indian friends happy to include
the names of ISI and Pakistan and I am quite hopeful you got the
costumes used in the first few minutes of the movie from Indians, who
will going to love it :)But I must say the reality will not change, and one day what you are
doing with others might turn back to you with full stack, as you might
have heard to every action there is an equal and opposite reaction, its
never too late, let the world live peacefully and you can also take the
same leverage but if you try to kill others children, others whole
families like showed in few mins of the movie you will have to pay some
day.I know Indian and may be the publisher wont publish it but at least i
tried to raise the voice against the wrong.Have peace and let the world live in peace, that is the only way to
bring peace in this sweet and wonderful world.

******
11 March 2016
1
Wow, what a mistake to see that movie. I cannot believe that there is
anybody who thinks that something like that makes sense. Yeah, the only
world leader not to be killed in a massive terrorist attack is the
American president and that because he has a bullet-proof security
agent and he himself is some kind of a mixture of superhero and combat
fighter.The rest is all blow ups and car or helicopter chases. There is not one
original scene or thought in that movie. The whole story is
unbelievable and the characters unconvincing and even ridiculous. Shame
on Hollywood to produce such drivel.

******
6 March 2016
1
it will blow you mind, totally out of your imagination...what kind of a
director and scriptwriter could lose their mind to produce such a
horrible and shallow movie...There are only few words can describe this movie, such as terrible
story, extremely fake effects, nauseated American world saviour, hero
ego...You government"s" , protect and permit the arms dealer to grow its
business globally. And its still your fault to kill innocent people.
However, while facing the revenge, you strongly state "no matter what,
we American is the one, who can stay forever and rule the world,
everyone could make mistakes for unforgivable reasons, but only
American makes no mistake, or do it for so called world peace justice
which might only benefit you American... "

******
10 March 2016
1
one of the worst movies i have watched, weak scenario, explosions like
that application on the iPhone, RAMBO was back, add for that the
childish imaging for the us president as the one who loves all the
world. Olympus was far more powerful than this, at least there were
suspense, in this movie you expect every move, you expect everything,
and how the story will end. surprised how Morgan Freeman accepted this
scenario or this movie, anyway, sometimes you watched a bad scenario
because there is some good work on action scenes , but this one neither
a good story nor good scenes. Finally to summarize, this was done for
political reasons and to send a message to Europe for criticizing
Muslims and enhance racism against others.

******
7 March 2016
1
London Has Fallen Is A Racist Movie Whose Prejudiced Producer Describe
Muslim Arabs As Terrorists And Who ignores the facts that War Criminals
Tony Blair And George W. Bush Have Already Committed Hundreds of
Atrocities And Theft When They Occupied Iraq. If there is real justice
in this world,Blair and Bush would be executed for their war crimes.After the death of the British prime minister, the world's most
powerful leaders gather in London to pay their respects. Without
warning, terrorists unleash a devastating attack that leaves the city
in chaos and ruins. Secret Service agent Mike Banning (Gerard Butler)
springs into action to bring U.S. President Benjamin Asher (Aaron
Eckhart) to safety. When Asher falls into the hands of the sinister
organization, it's up to Banning to save his commander in chief from a
horrible fate.

******
10 March 2016
1
I would advise everybody not to waste your valuable time watching this.
I wounder how the actors Freeman and Butler have participated in this
awful movie.The usual story of the untouched hero comes back again and again. Tens
of unnecessary scenes. After watching the movie, I still cannot
understand what was the role of the New Scootland Yard's chief. You
will feel that the terrorists are thousands in London without the
knowledge of the Britsh intelligence department. Terrorists just spread
the bombs in London like seeding a land! Does Hollywood become that
poor in terms of production & scenario?

******
13 March 2016
7
I walked into this film expecting a brain dead action film about a
terrorist attack on London, and that is primarily what I got. London
has Fallen is all about a plot to assassinate all the world leaders
when they attend the Prime Minister's funeral, after he dies in dodgy
circumstances. The U.s president is protected by Mike Banning, played
by the predictable Gerard Butler, who puts in his usual hard man
performance without really trying, and the president is played by Aaron
Eckhart who does a reasonable job. The US security team include Morgan
Freeman who admitted he only did it for the money, which pretty much
sums up the script's quality. Freeman is not challenged, but does fine
with what he is given in a boring rather clichéd script.Before the action starts, we get see some of Mike's family life which
is an interesting perspective for this film, and provides us with some
meaningful character development, which makes a change from the 1st
film. I liked the family perspective, but the script doesn't support it
well enough so it drops off as the film really gets going. When the
attacks first happen, and the events straight after this is when the
film is at it's best, with some exhilarating sequences and some
questionable dialogue from all involved. After the initial attack, the
pace doesn't drop, which is good as otherwise the film would become a
drab affair. Despite the fast pace, the action is very predictable,
despite being enjoyable, and I also thought the ending was pretty good
and well thought out. Despite the good, there is other bad, like the
supporting characters rather falling by the way side, like a British
agent and it feels like she's just been thrown in to include a women in
the film, and I felt she should of had an expanded role. Also, the
score was no where near dramatic enough for my liking, even though you
can't notice it all the time because of the quick pace of the movie.To summarise, they poor script is evident throughout despite great
action sequences and decent pacing. The lead stars do what they have to
do, without doing anything spectacular whilst other characters fall to
the wayside. Despite it's faults, London Has Fallen is nonetheless an
enjoyable action flick, but is certainly won't win any awards or get
amazing reviews, but brain dead films never do.

******
13 March 2016
5
When I first watched the trailer for this film, I expected the same
thing the first had, only worse. In a way I was right, the film didn't
really have anything new to offer and showed many of the same things
the first did. The jokes attempted at the beginning of the film left
long and awkward silences through out the cinema(jokes got a little
better later). The acting as expected wasn't anything special. These
talented actors/actresses put an average performance at best. The story
wasn't great either, I felt like we needed to fell emotionally invested
with the fact that it's meant to be a "final job", but the story didn't
develop enough to allow us to do so. The action wasn't great and felt
slow at times, and even predictable. The film is mostly filled with
unnecessary explosions, that looked visually poor and instantly put you
off. Overall, although the film had its few moments it was what I
expected it to be. However I did think that the poor story it wouldi
have, would be balanced out by some acceptable action. That wasn't the
case.

******
11 March 2016
2
Sometimes you get the impression that a movie has been composed
entirely around the base premise of a trailer and the rest is simply an
unwelcome necessary afterthought. When that trailer concerns itself
with blowing London's most famous landmarks to bits and Morgan Freeman
looking dreadfully concerned, you suspect that the movie is not going
to bother the Oscars too heavily the following year.The Prime Minister of England has just died from a suspicious heart
attack, the subsequent funeral in central London attended by rest of
the world's leaders is a security conundrum of unprecedented scale.
Unfortunately, the entire UK's security, police, secret service and
emergency response staff have been inexplicitly compromised by incensed
arms dealer Aamir Barkawi (Aboutboul), seeking vengeance for the drone
killing of his daughter on her wedding day two years earlier. The
majority of leaders are killed in an attack on the capital apart from,
surprise surprise, the US president Benjamin Asher (Eckhart), who is
lucky enough to be defended by the most nauseatingly supercilious head
of security in movie history, Mike Banning (Butler). What follows is a
meaningless chain of silly action sequences as the endlessly irritating
Banning tries to return his employer to safety.Saying there are plot-holes in London has Fallen would unfairly suggest
there is a plot, but the general narrative makes very little sense. The
characters are pure stock and the tale is horribly strewn with the
compulsory emotional family moments which instantaneously make you side
with the terrorists. Morgan Freeman's implausibly predictable wise old
man role is becoming a distinct bore, a step out of his safety zone
becoming more and more necessitous as each film and identical character
passes by.There is a sadly unsurprising miasma of xenophobia littered throughout
the film with jaw-dropping dialog moments; 'Get back to F*ckheadistan
or wherever you're from', made all the gloomier and surprising under
the watch of Iranian director Bebak Najafi.Considering the movie was blatantly constructed entirely around the
scenes of London's destruction, a surprising amount of the visual
effects are mediocre; the Thames water dispersion from the Chelsea
bridge bomb blast in particular has the mis-scaled feel of the Warlords
of Atlantis squid attack.There really is no excuse for this kind of garbage any more. Since
Lethal Weapon and Die Hard thoroughly redeveloped and modernised the
tenements of action movies almost thirty years ago, subsequent
comparable films should require more than just gun-toting idiots,
stupid one-liners, gore and occasional underhand xenophobia. If you
like films that allow the cerebral cortex to concentrate purely on
hand-to-popcorn coordination, then London has Fallen might just kill
ninety minutes. If not, it's one to steer clear of. Either way, this is
on a one-way mission straight to Bargainbinistan.

******
7 March 2016
1
I wasted my time watching this movie. I understand this is an action
movie. But even for an action movie, you need to have a logic that
makes sense to some degree. For example: 1. Everybody at MI6, is stupid and they need a field agent come and
reconnect the system. 2. For f***sake, the president of the united
state is under attack and there is no field agent (CIA) in entire
London or nearby to help him! What about Germany, or the Netherlands,
how about NATO! 3. There is a thing called marshal Law which is used
for this kinda situations! " Oh we should do nothing and wait till our
hero to kill everybody then we can take back London!" 4. In one of the
absolute sh** part in the safe house, two MI6 field agents leave our
hero and the president of the united states alone to fight, to go
where? what could be more important than protecting the president? I could go forever with this list! every part of the movie had these
types of garbage

******
3 March 2016
1
Boring and very long. I should have paid to watch the Star Wars again!
I think the script was written by 12 year old. I don't have anything
else to add, but there is a 1000 word minimum to write a review.The following explains how the brain processes language by Erik Kendal.Advances in our understanding of language processing by the brain come
from three sources: its acquisition in children, its study in typical
individuals using noninvasive brain imaging techniques, and its
dissolution in patients suffering brain injury. Studies on infants and
children are demonstrating that children, even infants, master the
details of language at the phonological, lexical, and syntactic levels
very early in development. Infants begin life capable of responding to
subtle acoustic distinctions that cue phonetic differences in the
world's languages, distinctions that likely capitalize on general
auditory perceptual processes. Very rapidly, a powerful learning
process causes infants to recognize statistical properties in the
language they hear, allowing them to form phonetic categories, find
words in the ongoing stream of discourse, and recognize the phrase
structure of their native language, all before 10 months of age. Speech
production takes a similar course, showing universal patterns early in
life, "which show differentiation by about 10 months of age. By the end
of the first year, when the infant's first words appear, language
learning evolves from universal patterns of speech perception and
production to a language-specific pattern. Infant- directed speech
("motherese"), with its enhanced prosodic cues and its exaggerated
phonetic units, may assist language learning in the young. Early
language learning being documented in experiments on infants and young
children is unrelated to external reinforcement of the kind described
by Skinner. Nor does it conform to the process described by Chomsky "by
which innately provided options are chosen (or maintained) on the basis
of experience. Infant language learning involves a more general sensory
and cognitive ability that fine tunes the brain and alters both speech
perception and production very early. The processing of a native
language differs from the processing of a foreign language. Taken
together, studies show that highly diverse brain regions are involved
in language processing and represent a progressive neural commitment to
the features and properties of the native language. These findings, and
studies of second language acquisition, suggest new models of the
critical or sensitive period for language acquisition. The difficulty
in learning a second language later in life appears to be related to
experience or expertise, in addition to age of acquisition. Language
experience and use commit brain structure to patterns that reflect the
primary language so that second language learning is difficult to the
degree that it employs a totally different set of phonological and
grammatical rules. Behavioral and brain studies of infants and adults
who have been systematically exposed to a foreign language are likely
to elucidate the nature of the brain's plasticity for language over a
lifetime. "Studies of infants who are being raised in bilingual or
trilingual homes are likely to answer questions about whether the human
brain has limitless potential for language, or whether our ability to
acquire multiple languages is constrained. These studies will not only
advance our understanding of the neural basis of language but may
elucidate general biological principles regarding human learning. At
the same time, studies on the nature of language dissolution in aphasia
have made great progress since Broca's and Wernicke's seminal
discoveries. They have given us a more complete understanding of
linguistic processes and an appreciation of the complex ways in which
they interconnect with systems for perception, motor control,
conceptual knowledge, and intentions. The challenges to elucidating the
neural basis of language remain formidable, although several
developments offer the hope of continued progress in the near future.
"Improvements in structural imaging will allow more precise and
consistent delineation of lesions that affect specific features of
language ability. Measurement of brain activity in typical subjects
will become increasingly important in the future, as both the spatial
and temporal resolution of these techniques improve and the
experimental paradigms used to study language become more productive.
Neurosurgical candidates whose brain functions must be mapped by
stimulation during surgery or by recording from implanted electrode
grids that remain in place during everyday activities will be an
important source of fine-grained information. Nevertheless, the data
available from the past decade of research already suggest two
important insights, as noted by Greg Hickok and David Poeppel: The
recruitment of brain regions in language studies is highly dependent on
the tasks used in the experiment, and language reception may be more
bilaterally organized than previously appreciated. A promising approach
is to relate findings on the developmental time course of human
language acquisition, plasticity for second language learning, and
studies on language dissolution caused by brain trauma. Are the
components of language that are learned earliest—those involving
prosodic and phonetic learning in speech perception and production—most
resistant to change when learning a second language, and also the least
likely to suffer from the effects of trauma to the brain? Future
research will address these issues. Understanding the human capacity
for language is important for the advancement of fundamental
neuroscience and indispensable for the treatment of patients with
aphasia, which is one of the most frequent impairments of higher
function caused by stroke and head injury (the others are impairments
of memory, emotion, and decision making). The astonishing feat of
language is too complex to be understood with the tools of any single
academic or medical specialty and, as several disciplines come together
to study the underlying neural processes, we should expect further
significant breakthroughs.

******
13 March 2016
10
I don't usually go to see action thriller's and have not been to a
James Bond in years but this film had me on the edge of my seat
throughout. The plot is highly believable as are the character's. The
computer graphics are brilliant a pity that it was not made in 3d.
Sheer entertainment from start to finish. I would pay to see this again
and that does not happen very often. The actor's are very good. Morgan
played the vice president very well. I particularly liked the way the
character names were introduced on the bottom of the screen like a
documentary, which added to the realism. Would go to a sequel and will
look out for Olympus Has Fallen now I know that this was a prequel.

******
11 March 2016
3
It started promising, showing the enemies at home, and I thought "OK,
finally we get a more impartial, more balanced and reasonable story
which considers the rights and reasons of both parts". I was wrong.
Once again there are just all-bad guys and all-good guys, once again
the Americans are depicted as the coolest people ever, and their
enemies are demagogically showed as dirty unrighteous evil
"terrorists". The movie even shamelessly justifies the use of drones on
civilians, one of the most horrible and socially perverted abominations
of our times. Sit, relax and enjoy, wrote some guy. "It's just a
movie", he said. Nope. It is NOT just a movie. It is a movie which uses
actuality facts and offers a PRECISE political and moral vision of
those facts, and whoever thinks he can separate the "entertainment"
from the reality has been successfully brainwashed! If this was a
fantasy movie set in some other planet with some pink creatures trying
to kill the leader of some green creatures for some x reason, I could
enjoy. But it is planet Earth, and once again I have to tolerate the
Americans playing the most righteous Country on the planet, the only
one who can use all the violence you can imagine and still come out as
morally just, poor innocent people having to defend themselves from
terrible evil enemies who have absolutely no reason to do what they do.
And whatever the enemies (the so called "terrorist") do, it is always
and only bad, period. Whatever the Americans do, it is always and only
good, period. And killing Arabic civilians with a drone is OK. But
killing Americans with a bomb is bad. Somebody will say "well, how are
we supposed to kill those bastards then, if they hide among
civilians?". Cool, what about carpet bombing the parts of your big
cities which are famous for hosting a highly concentrated amount of
criminal life? You would get rid of all criminals in one shot! Just
like all those Arabs you hate so much. Just with the same collateral
damage on civilians. What? Killing American Civilians is not the same
as killing Arabic Civilians? WHY?If what I wrote sounds idiot to you, you have the (lack of) brain to
enjoy this movie. So s(h)it, relax, and enjoy your America dream.
Hopefully one day you will wake up from that dream and realize that the
reality is much different from what your Country wants you to believe.

******
9 March 2016
3
This movie. . . where to begin?First, don't expect anything you haven't already seen 10,000 times in
every other "action" flick. Seriously. Hollywood has officially run out
of ideas and this movie utterly proves it. All this movie did was
recycle the same old played out script, plot and action scenes right
down to the bad guys, the revenge, the corrupt top secret agent guy and
the impossible and unrealistic escape from danger.The action scenes were okay but nothing out of the ordinary. All the
usual landmarks that one would suspect were taken out in this movie
which brought the yawn factor up to an 11, at least.The cast was this movie's only and I mean ONLY redeeming quality but
they weren't even really used to their potential. Every one of them
could do better than this movie. (I blame the script and the lack of an
original plot, not the actors.) That said, I should warn you that a 4 hour documentary on reforming tax
law or perhaps the formation of a snowflake would be FAR more
entertaining than London has Fallen.Don't waste your money nor your time.

******
11 March 2016
1
This movie its Pure Genocide corrupted Propaganda to make those dumber
those who watches so much TV and movies like this.. D1sgusting
political agenda and lies.. London Wont fall but the USA will fall its
their FATE. no more corruption and Hitler propaganda like this movie
just don't watch or support this mediocre Brainwashing movie. You Can
See Now They Are Trying to Plant Fear Into UK Population Just Do Not
Support This Propaganda . Don't WATCH IT Don't Pay For IT They Will Use
On Bombs TO Destroy Your City With That Money You Spend on Watching
This Stuff They Are Promoting Hate and Terror because they cannot do
Anything else.P They became Weak satanic Pigs that can Only use Fear in
population Don't get Scared of those B4stards of the US govt Tthis
Movie Deserve1/10 1Point just for the work in special effects..

******
9 March 2016
8
I think with these things you have to judge and rate a movie according
to its genre. This film lacks any kind of intelligent thought, dialogue
or plot, it's a whole heap of silliness but "London has Fallen" is a
good action movie. It does what it says on the tin. Fast-paced,
violent, cliché-ridden, completely unrealistic - its everything you
want and expect from this type of film. Butler is made for this type of role - not only does he look the part
he provides a bit of eye candy as well. He's Bond without the class,
and that actually makes him more entertaining in some ways. He's the
Bruce Willis of our time. I like him as an action hero.There are no surprises in this film, Freeman is Vice-President, the
Americans (of course) save London by identifying the location of the
terrorists, Butler takes charge of the SAS and saves the President... I
told you, it's a whole heap of silliness but enjoyable silliness
nonetheless.

******
4 March 2016
1
How on earth are movies like this made in 2016...All brown people bad
and all White people good...this trash is war mongering , flag waving
racist rubbish..i would imagine the average American person would be
ashamed of this.Nothing works at all..they spent a few quid on a preposterous script
and a few more quid on the ridiculous " Special" effects...nothing
special about them... they could have been done with a cheap computer
app...and the acting is worse than bad.The lead is such a bad actor with little or no screen presence and the
rest of the crew looked like extras....action sequences were totally
ineffective I have an unlimited cinema pass and would have asked for my money back
if I had paid for this rubbish.How on earth a movie like this could be made theses days is beyond
me...in the week of the Oscars and movies like Joy..Spotlight..The
Danish Girl..Revanant..etc..we get this tripe..incredibly bad.

******
5 March 2016
3
We're barely into March, and already I think we've found Donald Trump's
favourite film of the year.In "London Has Fallen" the British Prime Minister has died suddenly and
world leaders are converging on St Paul's Cathedral in London for the
state funeral. A quiet, solemn and dignified affair. At least, that's
until international arms dealer and terrorist Aamir Barkawi (Alon
Aboutboul) and his murderous and vengeful family have other plans.
Soon-to-be father Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) has the job of leading
the protection team for the US president (Aaron Eckhart) and its fair
to say he has his hands full. Barkawi has inserted an army of comrades
into the city and his intent is to execute the president live on the
internet. Can Banning stop him? "London Has Fallen" is the sequel to "Olympus Has Fallen"; the more
entertaining of two virtually identical 2013 movies with terrorists
seizing the White House (the other being "White House Down" aka 'the
one with the black president'). "Olympus Has Fallen" had the same
mixture of Taken-style violence, but had a more coherent and realistic
plot. In the sequel, every VNALI (Vaguely Non-American Looking
Individual) is assumed to be a terrorist and promptly slaughtered.
VNALI's are wily creatures, dressing as police officers and promptly
undoing years of ethnic diversity recruitment by the Met Police.The script sinks to similar depths. "F*** You" shouts a VNALI to
Banning, half through the side window of his SUV. "No, F*** You"
replies Banning as he swerves the car into a pillar. You get the idea.
The action is pretty non-stop but when it does stop it stops with a
bump, with some pretty banal scenes and clunky lines for 'character
development'.The count of machine-gun wielding VNALI corpses vs unscathed hero
reaches ludicrous proportions in the absurd finale. A big case of more
is less.Whilst a lot of the film is actually filmed in Sofia in Bulgaria, many
of the London shots are all over the place continuity wise. Turning
left out of Somerset House to get to St Pauls? No, I don't think so!
The film is not totally without merit. Morgan Freeman, as Vice
President Trumbell delivers his lines like honey poured over a large
blueberry muffin. And the always watchable Angela Bassett is class as
Banning's friend and presidential aide.The overall feeling of the film however is one of overt xenophobia that
leaves a bad taste in the mouth.(For the graphical version of this review please visit
bob-the-movie-man.com)

******
13 March 2016
8
Mike(Gerard Butler) and the President(Aaron Eckhart) and some members
of the White House, go to London England for a funeral, but the funeral
is sabotaged by terrorists. The leader of the terrorist want the
president, it will become a race against time to get the President to
safety, but the question is will they? A pretty descent sequel, Butler is enjoyable has an action hero bad
ass, and Eckhart is pretty enjoyable as the President. Action scenes
are pretty intense, never feel real glorified in any way. I also like
the statements it makes against terrorism, showing how we must stand
together. if you are in the mood for an intense action film, then check
this film out.

******
7 March 2016
4
It's been a good three years and the R-rated, action-packed "Olympus
Has Fallen" has faded from most minds, even the consumers who saw the
film such as myself. However, that's not going to stop Gerard Butler,
Aaron Eckhart, and Morgan Freeman from returning to stop a band of
heavily armed terrorists, who have blown every historic landmark in the
British capital to smithereens, by instilling the insurmountable power
of the red, white, and blue up their asses like they're Red Foreman
after a bad Fourth of July cookout.This time, however, instead of America being under attack, London is
the target for a series of numerous bombings and strategic attacks
during the time a funeral for the British Prime Minister is underway.
Both President Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart) and his top Secret
Service agent Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) are present during the time
of the attack, just as they arrive to the Prime Minster's funeral. A
fury of gunfire and explosions occur, including a suspension bridge
exploding, leaving five world leaders dead. All of this is the work of
Aamir Barkawi (Alon Aboutboul), a terrorist with intent to bring the
war to the places that start the wars; destroy the homes and
communities of people who passively do the same to other places around
the world without thinking twice."London Has Fallen," at the very least, manages to pack some gritty
entertainment into its premise because it boasts an R-rating
confidently, not at all worried or phase by the possibilities of not
being a marketable picture. This is the same reason that "Olympus Has
Fallen" was better than it could've been; when an action film owns an
R-rating instead of a PG-13, not only does it open up the possibility
for more dialog that's realistic given the situations, but it also
helps show a whirlwind more when it comes to the action sequences.
"London Has Fallen," as a result, turns its action sequences into some
of the strongest I've seen since "Final Destination 5," in terms of
visual clarity and sheer intensity.During the entire terrorist attack sequence, I was thoroughly enjoying
the film as fairly basic but competent entertainment. Despite a strong
opening, however, the film has little to offer once the second act
kicks in, and by the time the third act goes for sentiment and a
hard-hitting moral about how America's involvement in near every
foreign facet is the key to the country's strengths, I not only stopped
caring, but I tried to stop listening. While I won't be one of the
people to claim a New World Order agenda embedded within the screenplay
of a new action film, I will be the one to claim that the personal
politics, in addition to the lunacy between Butler and Eckhart
throughout the whole film, work to take a simple, effective premise and
effectively limit its potential by making it silly and overreaching."London Has Fallen" doesn't need to be a political sermon, but it sure
wants to be. It doesn't need to be a story about a family man looking
to turn in his badge for a safer, more comfortable life, but it sure
wants to be. And, finally, it doesn't need to be a carbon copy of its
predecessor, but it can't help but be. Even a slew of hard-hitting
action sequences and beautifully rendered special effects cannot save
the film from itself, and that is the biggest, most personal flaw of
all.

******
9 March 2016
8
9 March 2016 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - London
Has Fallen. I was very much looking forward to this sequel of Olympus
Has Fallen and I was not disappointed. Well not much. Apart from quite
a few very badly executed superimposed explosions of most of the famous
London landmarks this film was pretty darn good. Don't get me wrong,
it's an action film so it's never going to win Oscars for dialogue or
best actor but it pretty much kept me glued to my seat throughout.
Using the funeral of the British Prime Minister as the reason to get
many world leaders in one place, they are then viciously, brutally and
fatally attacked leaving just the US President alive and on the run for
his very life, trusty bodyguard Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) in
attendance. It left a funny feeling seeing our capital being blown
apart like that, but the whole film was non stop action from start to
finish and I could easily watch it again. Oh and of course the most
marvellous Morgan Freeman was one again playing Vice President
Trumball. Definitely one for my DVD collection.

******
9 March 2016
3
First off it is a fantasy action movie whose lead actor is a Scot who
naturally hate the English, so the actor playing an all American hero
would not give tuppence for the validity of the storyline or indeed the
reality. A question needs to be asked, where the hell was the British
Armed Forces whilst all this mayhem was going on? There are 28 British
military barracks in and around London Coldstream Guards Cavalry
Commando Welsh & Scots Guards Royal Artillary Royal Logistics and so on
there are 2800 armed police officers, plus 4 X 8 man SAS/SBS squads
attached to MI5 MI6, so Gerard Butler takes on everyone single handed
and the President turned into Bruce Willis WTF..? Really why does
Hollywood like to portray themselves as world Saviour's and everyone
else as inept gimps ? When in fact it is US intervention in the Mid
East which has destroyed nations instead of saving them

******
8 March 2016
3
This was just your typical boring political, everything-blowing-up
movie. I was pretty disgusted with it. It pretty much glorified the
cycle-of-violence. Saying, "It's OK to kill innocent people for no
reason. but when they get revenge, they're bad people. So we're good
people for trying to kill more of their people." The whole movie was
just stuff blowing up. London is getting attacked by these terrorists
who are trying to get revenge for acts of terrorism committed to to
them. Like I said, cycle of violence. On the bright side, the movie was
pretty level-volume, so it was easy for me to fall asleep in it, or
else I would have been falling out of my seat bored.

******
6 March 2016
3
This movie is a waste of time. Was the script excreted by some
generator? Many details did not make sense.E.g.:(1) Does somebody believe that a bodyguard would understand the
language spoken by those terrorist over radio? I do not think so.(2) The way how they "deduced" the base of terrorists was highly
incredible(3) Very conveniently, SAS guys were able to detonate the nest of
terrorists. I just do not understand what kind of explosives they
detonated and how those explosives get there.

******
4 March 2016
3
When a movie becomes a surprise hit, as the
White-House-under-attack-and-President-in-danger actioner "Olympus Has
Fallen" did in 2013, earning $160 million worldwide on a budget of $70
million, a sequel often follows. Movie Fans (especially those who liked
the original), can only hope that "London Has Fallen" (R, 1:39) follows
the rules of a successful sequel – and it does… partially. Keeping the
main characters and also developing them further? Check. Sticking with
the basic idea that worked in the original, but changing the setting
and details enough to tell a new story? Check. Upping the excitement
and action? Check. Telling a better story and making a movie that's
superior to the first one? Oooops.The movie opens by nicely and organically updating the lives of the
main characters since the events of the last movie, about three years
ago (in the story and in real life). Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) and
his wife, Leah (Radha Mitchell) are expecting their first child in two
weeks. Mike is back in the good graces of the U.S. Secret Service
(after his fall from grace and ultimate redemption in the first film),
serving as Special Agent in charge of the Presidential Protection
Division, and he's as chummy with President Asher (Aaron Eckhart) as
ever before. Lynne Jacobs (Angela Bassett) is still Director of the
Secret Service, General Clegg (Robert Forster) continues to serve as
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Ruth McMillan (Melissa Leo)
remains the Secretary of Defense. Allan Trumbull has moved up in the
world, from Speaker of the House in "Olympus Has Fallen" to Asher's
Vice President in "London Has Fallen".When the British Prime Minister dies suddenly, national leaders from
around the world make plans for a quick trip to London for the funeral,
but with little time to coordinate logistics and arrange for proper
security. It's a situation that Pakistani terrorist and international
arms dealer Aamir Barkawi (Alon Moni Aboutboul) has been waiting for
since narrowly escaping a drone strike two years earlier. Barkawi's
henchmen (including a couple of his own sons) are in London to
coordinate a series of incredibly well-coordinated attacks against the
leaders of the world's major industrialized (mostly western) nations,
carried out by a seemingly countless number of terrorist sympathizers
which have infiltrated the ranks of every local and national security
force in London. As successful as the attacks are, they miss President
Asher. Protected by the seemingly super-human agent Banning, POTUS is
on the run in a dark and decimated London, with Barkawi threatening to
capture him and kill him… slowly… live on the internet."London Has Fallen" is a half-way decent action flick which makes
reasonably good use of modern international threats in its plot, but
also represents some of the worst pitfalls of the action genre. Trying
to be bigger and badder than the original… this movie accomplishes its
goals. Antoine Fuqua, the director of the first film, passed on
directing the sequel because he didn't like the script – and the next
director hired dropped out after a month – just weeks before shooting
was to begin. This significantly delayed production of the film, now in
the hands of a third-stringer. I generally liked "Olympus Has Fallen",
but remember criticizing the gratuitous violence. The body count in
"London Has Fallen" is clearly higher, but most of the deaths occur out
of the camera's view, although some of those shown are unnecessarily
sadistic. What bothers me more is the deaths we did not see. Asher and
Banning dodge an impossibly high number of bullets with barely a
scratch. It's the equivalent of falling out of an airplane on a
cross-country flight and only getting a rock in your shoe when you hit
the ground. Meanwhile, the script has more plot holes than bubbles in a
pint of Guinness and the jingoistic one-liners are reminiscent of the
"Rambo" movies from the 1980s. The actions of some of the characters
are also about as realistic as in those films, and the actors playing
the terrorists are about as menacing as a gang of purse snatchers.
"London Has Fallen" will pump up your adrenaline and your patriotism,
but a thinking-man's action movie, this is not. "C"

******
3 March 2016
7
So the trailer made me want to see this movie and I didn't see Olympus
Has Fallen at that time. So I watched that yesterday and I liked it,
fun action movie with some noticeable flaws.Today I went to see London Has Fallen and I liked it better than the
first one. The action scenes were a bit better than the first and more
intense, the lighting and cinematography improved quite a bit compared
to Olympus and the scale was bigger.To get a little more in depth on certain matters that I liked: Gerard
Butler is made for this role, he makes for a very likable action hero
that gets the job done. He did that in Olympus and now in this one he
did it a bit better I think.The rest of the actors also do a good job, nothing really great but I
got why everyone of them had a motivation to be there.As I said the action was better than the first and with that I mean
there is a good build up and when it starts I was invested in the
scenes and wanted Gerard Butler to kick ass.There are some issues with it though. In Olympus Has Fallen and the
trailer for this movie I already saw that the CGI was really bad. Some
explosions look really fake and it's weird that they didn't put more
effort into making that look better.Also this movie, like Olympus, is very patriotic. I think Americans
will like the movie more than the rest of the world. I didn't mind it
too much (I'm Dutch) but other people might find it somewhat annoying.
What is a bit weird though is that they casted a Scot (Butler) to play
an American. And the guy just doesn't have a good American accent which
is just a bit weird.Also some other technical elements like editing, sound etc. were quite
poor during parts of the movie but I didn't mind it that much.So all in all it's a dumb fun action movie and I'd recommend watching
it, 7/10.

******
11 March 2016
10
it is one of the best films i have seen in years, the action scenes
alone left me wanting more. i would be able to watch this film on a
loop for hours if i had the chance. its a great film from the get go.it works fantastically as a squeal to Olympus has fallen. the on screen
relationships between the characters is great and shows progression.works great as a background story for the characters so that you can
understand they way the characters see each other in the new film. overall,it is an amazing action packed film. i would say a huge
congratulations to the cast and director of this film. its a must see.On a final note I hope there will be another one.

******
9 March 2016
9
'LONDON HAS FALLEN': Four and a Half Stars (Out of Five)Sequel to the surprise 2013 B-action flick hit 'OLYMPUS HAS FALLEN';
which (like 'WHITE HOUSE DOWN', of that same year), is basically 'DIE
HARD' in the White House. This one is set on the streets of London;
where Secret Service 'super agent' Mike Banning is once again defending
President Benjamin Asher, from vicious terrorists. Gerard Butler, Aaron
Eckhart, Morgan Freeman, Angela Bassett, Melissa Leo, Robert Forster,
Radha Mitchell and Sean O'Bryan all reprise their roles (from the
original film); they're joined by newcomers Alon Moni Aboutboul, Waleed
Zuaiter, Mehdi Dehbi, Charlotte Riley (Tom Hardy's wife) and Jackie
Earle Haley. Screenwriters Creighton Rothenberger and Katrin Benedikt
once again co-wrote the movie (they also co-scripted 'THE EXPENDABLES
3'), along with Christian Gudegast and Chad St. John. Iranian-Swedish
filmmaker Babak Najafi made his American film debut, directing the
movie (replacing Antoine Fuqua, from the original). I really enjoyed
this film!The British Prime Minister has passed away, and all the western world
leaders are invited to his funeral (in London). Mike Banning (Butler),
the toughest secret service agent that ever lived, is once again
escorting President Asher (Eckhart). Hundreds of armed mercenaries,
under the command of a ruthless terrorist (Aboutboul), attack everyone
in attendance; killing several world leaders, slaughtering hundreds of
civilians and destroying multiple London landmarks. Banning will stop
at nothing, to get the President out of there alive.The movie is such a great throwback to the B-action flicks of
yesteryear (especially the 80s and early 90s); back when almost
everything was a 'DIE HARD' ripoff! I was so surprised at how brutally
violent it is. Butler seems like he stepped out of a time machine, to
play his 'badass' role! The movie is filled with cheesy dialogue, weak
special effects and completely unbelievable action scenarios; but it's
also relentlessly entertaining in the process. I enjoyed it a lot more
than the original (and 'WHITE HOUSE DOWN' as well). It's just so much
more fun than I was expecting (in a 'so bad it's good' nostalgic way)!

******
9 March 2016
8
In one scene, Gerard Butler says to the Aaron Eckhart, "Brace for
Impact", just like how the makers have said with trailer. They have
showed us what it is and there is nothing more or less to expect from
that. So when you go into this movie, you sit and you 'brace for
impact'. Apart from familiar characters, the movie has nothing much to
do with being a sequel but who is complaining?This time the playground for director's fireworks is London, one of the
most beautiful cities of the world. The visual effects involving
ripping Central London apart into pieces end up in making up the 45- 50
minutes of the runtime. Initial blast and action sequences are very
well choreographed and I promise you won't be looking at your
smartphone! Unlike last time, the antagonist targets multiple places
and people in London to seek revenge. There is a load of stereotyping
throughout the movie for example, a lady German chancellor, naughty
womanizing Italian president and of course the ever so perfect American
president. But who cares, its Hollywood's money and they will spend it
their way:-) Though the sensitive issues like Drone Attacks come into
picture, the movie has made no efforts in justifying them. There are a
lot of things that one can criticize upon, but the movie does manage to
keep us in the edge of the seats and that's pretty good enough for the
bucks spent. My only criticism would be the movie pretty much stays
indoors and underground for the last 40 minutes or so which is a bit
tiring.Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart are the new bromance duo and they don't
have to do much apart from delivering punchlines at each other. Morgan
Freeman does not seem to get up from his command chair:-) Angela Basset
looks young and dynamic but has a very little role. Other characters
fill in for their generic roles. My Olympus has Fallen review is my
most approved in IMDb, I know I am a little late in writing this one,
but once again I say, sit at the edge of your seat and enjoy the
fireworks.

******
9 March 2016
4
Considering the state of American politics at the moment, it is no
wonder that movies like this get made with a such a nonsense message.
At least, the action had some positive qualities. There is one
especially cool scene when Gerard Butler's character Mike Banning
storms a terrorist stronghold and the camera doesn't cut for a while. The movie doesn't rely much on the fact that it is a sequel and I don't
think there was much more than a vague single reference to the
preceding movie. The movie also doesn't take much time to develop a
back story for the main character so I guess that's what they figure
the first movie did already. They throw the president and his loyal
secret service agent into the action rather quickly and it only slows
down temporarily at times.Check out more of this review and others at swilliky.com

******
10 March 2016
7
Obviously LHF isn't gonna be in the same league of movies such as The
Dark Night or The Revnant but having gone into this movie with 0
expectations, I was pleasantly surprised how good of a time I had. The
story in this movie is fairly implausible but it makes up for this
through its fast pacing and well shot action sequences. One shot in
particular really impressed me because it was a very long moving shot
of a fire fight with many soldiers on both sides and lots of special
effects. That one shot in particular bumped my rating from 6 to a 7.
It's not a great movie but if you want a good action movie with some
likable characters, I definitely recommend this movie.

******
9 March 2016
10
London has fallen is a highly enjoyable, action packed, fast-paced and
exciting movie that will keep you engrossed right through to the
credits. The British Prime Minister's funeral is being attended by all
the world leaders who walk into a trap, laid by a vengeful arms dealer
who wants them all dead. An intricate terrorist attack focusing upon
the President of the United States (Aaron Eckhart) who has Mike Banning
(Gerard Butler) to keep him from capture and they don't plan on going
down without a fight as they weave themselves across the heart of
London. Ignore the critical reviews, load up with popcorn and take a
punt on this movie and you won't be disappointed!

******
8 March 2016
8
This Movie Is Very Good For The Type Of Person Like Me Who Loves
Destruction Films. That Is Why I Went To See This. The Parts Without
Chases And Gunfire Were OK. However The Destruction Bits Were Very
Enjoyable For Me. There Were Some Clichés In This Film Just Like Most
These Days. If You Want A Deep Story, This Won't Be For You But If You Want This To
Have A Lot Of Destruction, This Is The Movie For You!I Rate This Film An 8 Out Of 10*This Is My First Review. Sorry If It Isn't Up To Parr With Other
Critics I Was Just Bored.*

******
8 March 2016
10
Fair enough if you're looking for something highly intelligent, or
realistic, you won't enjoy this. But that's not the kind of movie this
is! You wouldn't go to watch a comedy then complain that it's not scary
enough, so why complain an action film isn't realistic? As the saying
goes "don't judge a fish by its ability to climb a tree" As far as this
film goes within its own genre, I would say it was excellent. Switch
your brain off for a couple of hours, it's fun, it's full of action,
it's visual impact is impressive and there's even a few of the
obligatory cheeky one liners to raise a smile. If you want highbrow,
arty, sci-fi, romcom, fact based or any other genre, then watch a title
to fit one of those descriptions. When you're in the mood for stunning
effects and disaster, I highly recommend this or its predecessor.

******
2 March 2016
4
London Has Fallen is a pure Hollywood sequel at it's finest. It's
predecessor Olympus Has Fallen from 2013 was such a simple blockbuster
that left my brain immediately after watching it. A film that just
threw at a lot of action at you and it followed the same format of
director Antoine Fuqua's other filmography who's known for making
action films. Olympus Has Fallen so much exceeded expectations at the
box office so it only makes sense a sequel follows.Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) is now expecting his first child and
looking to resign from his Secret Service duties protecting the
president. After the British Prime Minister dies, the funeral is must-
attend for world leaders and terrorists launch an attack in London.
It's up to Banning to save U.S. President Benjamin Asher (Aaron
Eckhart) in a wild cat-and-mouse game in the streets of London.When you think of this series, you don't think of characters but as
much as anything this film is all about Mike Banning and Benjamin
Asher. Banning is made out to be a bad-ass and he does very well in the
action scenes. Butler is very likable and you wish the character was in
really a different series. The only thing the character does is
basically protect Asher so don't expect a lot of secondary elements to
him. Even though I've always liked actor Arron Eckhart, Asher doesn't
have much to him compared to Banning and really he is a dull President.
You do have big names in secondary roles like Morgan Freeman or Angela
Bassett but the script is made for Butler to do the most work.The only thing the film does really well is depicting London as the
setting. From set locations, culture, and the British people, it surely
feels like London even with it being just a Hollywood film. If this
film makes money, (I think it will) expect the next installment to be
in another famous and glamorous city like Paris or Los Angeles. So far,
the settings of these films are the main selling point.London Has Fallen is basically what most February blockbusters are. A
mindless film with some pretty good action. London Has Fallen literally
falls though.

******
11 March 2016
8
The plot is expected when you saw the title of this film, ya another
have fallen. As in the trailer every G8 president/leader in movie has
been kill except American and Russian(with some reason not getting
invited. LOL.... so Russian president not even show in the movie. ha).
That's why I named it American movie, why everyone have to die in one
scene shouldn't they be hunted and meet up in some place and die one by
one (oh sorry that may sound like a hungry game movie :P). So skip the
plot, lets review something else something good about this movie. For
some reason I'm love the action scene on the rescue part, it feels like
"ONE TAKE" bravo, in some moment i'm thought watch people playing video
game. Not bad, Not bad at all. CG not bad but not suggest to watch 3D.

******
10 March 2016
5
I believe Gerard Butler to be a good actor. I also believe that he
makes bad choices in the roles he takes. Playing for Keeps, Movie 43,
Gods of Egypt, Chasing Mavericks, Gamer. King Leonidas really needs to
fire his agent (if he hasn't already). Gerard's latest is 2016's London
Has Fallen (my newest write-up). It's an uber-sequel to the lousily
excessive Olympus Has Fallen and only exists because that vehicle
became a so-so to moderate hit. Whereas "Olympus" felt like the
ultimate Die Hard rip-off, "London" feels like a remake of Invasion
U.S.A. (1985). Whereas "Olympus" proclaimed Butler to be the poor man's
Bruce Willis, "London" now has him conveying Chuck Norris. Bodies pile
up, cardboard villains bite the territorial dust, London city landmarks
are blown to smithereens, and countless rounds of ammunition are
discharged. Oh look kids, there's Big Ben, and there's Parliament.
Ha-ha.Anyway, Olympus Has Fallen was directed by Antoine Fuqua. London Has
Fallen passes the reins over to relative unknown, Babak Najafi. Najafi
doesn't stray from Fuqua's previous vision. He keeps the proceedings
fast and brainless, patchy and dippy. "London's" action scenes like in
"Olympus", consist of gunfights promoting the look of a video game
(Call of Duty comes to mind). There's nothing visceral here, just
mounds of bullets and bad guys groaning briefly before they parish. As
for the special effects shots, well they sort of look fake and
cartoonish. It's as if a helicopter flew over the calm city of London,
England (to shoot dailies) and then the CGI artists came in to add some
sham, death and destruction. That sort of buffoonery worked with the
Transformer movies. Here, it's obvious and kind of laughable.Containing many, unnecessary insert titles, harboring a screenplay that
took four writers to complete, and owning a strong cast for such a
silly actioner (Morgan Freeman, Jackie Earle Haley, Angela Basset,
Melissa Leo), London Has Fallen never makes any mention towards its
predecessor from 2013. You could walk into it thinking everything was
its own movie. The story is as follows: Secret Service agent Mike
Banning (Gerard Butler) is about to be a father. He and his wife Leah
(played by Radha Mitchell) are expecting a child in two weeks. At the
same time, Banning is contemplating resigning from his job via
protecting President Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart). In the process of
drafting his resignation letter, Mike finds out that a British Prime
Minister has died prompting him to accompany said President to London
for a state funeral. All the world leaders show up there too but for
some reason, a terrorist organization wants to kill all of them
(quickly) and then capture President Asher for means of a public
execution (YouTube here it comes). With "London", I've never seen
automatic weapons fired so quickly and so hastily in a feature film.
Again, this harks back to my video game perception stated earlier.Now as mentioned in the first paragraph, I don't think of Gerard Butler
as being bad at acting. I do however, feel that registering as an
action hero is not quite his forte. Despite plugging tons of bad guys
and even dispatching them in the style of Michael Myers (same knife
too), he lacks the wit of a 90's Bruce Willis, the accent and
one-liners of an Arnold Schwarzenegger, and the overall coolness of one
Liam Neeson. Yeah he looks manly but resorts to grimacing at the
camera, subjugating an impractical one man army persona, and spouting
plenty of F-bombs. You end up rooting for his character the way you
would root for action monger Jason Statham (that can't be good). Bottom
line: With a dilettante slickness and an evaporating running time (99
non-epic minutes), London Has Fallen isn't the worst action movie to
date. It does though, register just above a rental. My rating: 2 stars.Of note: There's a sequence in "London" where a chopper crashes after
being shot down. In that chopper is President Asher (Eckhart), Secret
Service director Lynn Jacobs (Angela Basset), Butler's Mike Banning,
and I guess two pilots. Who do you think survives without any internal
injuries and almost no bruising? That's right, the Prez and his
protective badass in Banning. Oh Hollywood, you never disappoint.

******
10 March 2016
5
Miffed! SPOILERS: London has fallen, and does anybody seem to care? How
would they? Streets are running empty! You wonder out loud, "Where is
everybody?" Oh, Wait! This could be a different dimension altogether!
But is it a sci-fi movie? No! So that gets ruled out too! The movie is
so bad that it will make you remember the already forgotten previous
installment, and make you go, "I think I liked it more when Olympus
fell!" In a world, where cities keep falling and directors try to cash
in their checks through big names like Butler, Freeman and Eckhart, by
showing meagre action without a good plot or direction to keep the
pieces together, you are compelled to wonder what the action-world is
degrading into.In a planet which already reeks of terror, Babak Najafi believes you
haven't had enough, and tries to feed you a mouthful of terror-jargon
with ample gun shots, bombs and some third-grade CGI. There is no
subtlety in his direction, and you almost see everything coming. What
is worse is the way he decides to snap off a frame, and then spearhead
into another one, without a proper closure. In his head, he thinks he
is being cool, but really Babak, Not Cool! Not Cool! What was cheesy
was the fact that every character in the movie gets a label. Najafi
thought we were really that interested to notice who's who. There is
one juncture where all presidents get exterminated within seconds,
which was laughable rather than being poignant. So, if your country's
president was insinuated there, you would go "Damn!" and might walk off
the theater.The screenplay has nothing to offer. It is further exacerbated to pulp
just as victims of Gerard-fury were by the flick's shoddy direction.
Radha Mitchell just makes matters worse by running with a baby in her
belly like she is on a football field. Gerard Butler stares at his
screen with a scrappy resignation letter without emphasizing enough
focusing on the words honor and privileged (wow! Writers!) just to tell
you that he is thinking about it. Subtle, eh! Aaron goes live and
suddenly he decides to be a man and show some real ballsy presidency.
In his head he must be like, "Look at me, I am your ideal tough!"
Shivani Ghai shouts at Patrick Kennedy to stay on the ground and then
shoots him ensuring her order is heard. Well played! Oooh-Oooh before I
forget, there was this guy who seemed constantly worried; he had a
weird eyebrow that pointed up, no matter what. So even if he was happy
he looked worried.Sometimes these action flicks make me wonder if adroit Presidents watch
them too and say, "Hey! That's me. I am holding a gun, and going Bam!
Bam! And Kaboom!" At least Family Guy's Mayor Adam West would say that.If we look at the bright side, which we generally do, the final action
bits are pretty dope, when Gerard goes full Rambo on the terrorists. It
almost seems like a good game you are playing, that skims the surface
of Splinter Cell or Hit-man for that to matter. The camera goes with a
continuous shot, and Babak seems to have been waiting the whole movie
just to shoot that. It was good while it lasted. Then the clouds of
pointlessness walk in again.

******
9 March 2016
8
9 March 2016 Film of Choice at The Plaza Dorchester Tonight - London
Has Fallen. I was very much looking forward to this sequel of Olympus
Has Fallen and I was not disappointed. Well not much. Apart from quite
a few very badly executed superimposed explosions of most of the famous
London landmarks this film was pretty darn good. Don't get me wrong,
it's an action film so it's never going to win Oscars for dialogue or
best actor but it pretty much kept me glued to my seat throughout.
Using the funeral of the British Prime Minister as the reason to get
many world leaders in one place, they are then viciously, brutally and
fatally attacked leaving just the US President alive and on the run for
his very life, trusty bodyguard Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) in
attendance. It left a funny feeling seeing our capital being blown
apart like that, but the whole film was non stop action from start to
finish and I could easily watch it again. Oh and of course the most
marvellous Morgan Freeman was one again playing Vice President
Trumball. Definitely one for my DVD collection.

******
9 March 2016
6
And by that title i don't mean you have all flocked to see it on
opening weekend, i mean as far as action movies go it is so bland and
forgettable that it just feels like we have already seen it. I give
London has Fallen a 5 however because i do not remember sitting in the
cinema hating this film.. but i definitely don't remember liking it so
much either.So Gerard Butler returns as right hand man to Aaron Eckhart's president
as they go to London after the prime minister has been killed. It
started quite interesting really, all the world leaders were
conviniently there but i thought maybe they will go all out this time
and put all the world leaders at risk.. because at least then it adds
something more for the audience. Nope, they are never seen again after
things start to blow up. So yeah, throw in Morgan Freeman in a control
room and we have our movie. The action itself was cool i wont lie, i
was engrossed into it.. but then after an action scene had ended i
would think oh yeah.. that happened in every other action film ever. So
in that sense London has Fallen doesn't really have much of a reason to
exist at all.The friendship between Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart is very
believable which i guess is a nice little bonus and Butler is pretty
badass. The third act though.. it was nonsense. The CGI was just bad.
For example a huge CGI flame chases the leads down a hallway. How they
don't look like Anakin Skywalker from Episode 3 i don't know because i
swear it went straight through them. But here's the thing.. i switched
my brain off and if you quite literally do too then you won't have a
terrible time probably. I don't hate the film, i don't really like the
film.. i have no feeling towards it which is why i gave it the average
rating of 5.

******
9 March 2016
8
-London Has Fallen is an upcoming 2016 American action thriller film
directed by Babak Najafi and written by Creighton Rothenberger, Katrin
Benedikt, Chad St. John, and Christian Gudegast. It is a sequel to
Antoine Fuqua's 2013 film Olympus Has Fallen and stars Gerard Butler,
Aaron Eckhart, and Morgan Freeman, with Alon Moni Aboutboul, Angela
Bassett, Robert Forster, Melissa Leo, and Radha Mitchell in supporting
roles.-Filming began on October 24, 2014, in London, a Christmas break
started in November with filming resuming in February 2015. London Has
Fallen is set to be released on March 4, 2016 by Focus Features under
their recently revived Gramercy Pictures label.- I personally find -London Has Fallen a more successful film than
Olympus Has Fallen which first than also own an explosive action and
stunning special effects.

******
8 March 2016
7
Action movies, regardless of their explicit intent or savage
coincidences, always tend to be a blend of entertainment, and
implicitly, a political mine-field waiting to be criticized for its
portrayal of the bad guys. Bad guys, no matter how hard you try to
justify them, are always the main concern and heavily scrutinized
subject of many critics and talks within action movies. Now, after
2013's obsession with White House abduction movies, White House Down
and the original Olympus Has Fallen, which spawned our currently
reviewed London Has Fallen, its hard not to be political when the main
players in the film are today's world leaders. In 2013, London's predecessor Olympus Has Fallen showed a very
political situation of a North Korean terrorist trying to unify Korea
by capturing the American President, and using it as leverage to remove
American opposition in North Korea for a South Korean invasion. While
London Has Fallen does not have as much of a very intellectual plot as
its original, one thing is for sure, the action, language and kick-ass
Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) are amped up to mirror signature John
McClane moments, but never ever quotes passes them.London Has Fallen is a less thought-out actioner, yet, the film tries
to out-do its predecessor's actions, with a smaller budget, which never
boasts well for action movies. Usually, when studios give a smaller
budget to sequels, their faith in the subject matter is not very
convincing. Yet, London Has Fallen is a more aggressive, solid action
film that Olympus on many levels, and perhaps thats because of the cast
and crew's fun with the material, rather than a serious tone found in
the first film.Rugged with grit and braun, London Has Fallen is easily a fun and
mindless action movie for die- hard action movie fans, as well as
passive fanfare for casual action fans to the genre as well. Filled
with ridiculous one-liners, sometimes really animated and disgraceful
action special effects and some serious contemplative moments of
justification and reveal, London Has Fallen is the perfect post-Oscar
action movie to cozy up to for the month of March.As mentioned above, Olympus was a much more plot-heavy and politically
savvy action film, while London is nothing short of a revenge film. But
who is to say revenge films are bad? Anyone remember Kill Bill or Mad
Max: Fury Road? The baddie this time, Aamir Barkawi (Alon Aboutboul) is
a arms-dealing terrorist, arming any nation or any one body, with deep
enough pockets, with weapons that could take out some of the world
largest and longest standing national landmarks. When his dealings get
his directly entangled with the interests of the United States, the
United States military orders a drone strike attack on Aamir and his
family. Of course, to amp up the melodrama and emotions, despite all of
the intelligence of the United States government, the day of the strike
is the same day as Aamir's youngest daughter's wedding. barely escaping
the bombing of the United States, Aamir and his son Kamran Barkawi
(Waleed Zuaiter) spend two long, hard year, devising a plan that will
get their revenge and debt in blood.Upon the news of the sudden death of the British Prime Minister,
President Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart) along with his top personal
Secret Service Agent Banning, make their way to the UK for a highly
publicized funeral for the former Prime Minister. Gathering some of the
biggest leaders in the world, Barkawi's plans being to unfold, bombing
leaders, landmarks and killing off thousands of people, including
innocent civilians, in an attempt to capturing the leader of the free
world, and globally broadcasting his execution. Banning, whose steps
ahead of every nations top security outlets, goes above and beyond his
duties, not informing a single soul of the President's movements and
plans. His quick decisions saves the President for as long as he can,
until he in inevitably captured and planned to be publicly executed for
fear propaganda.Some of the most interesting parts of London Has Fallen aren't even
within the scenes of the film, but facts surrounding the film as a
whole make for one interesting little pop culture entry. Olympus, which
was directed by American go-to action director Antoine Fuqua (Southpaw
and The Equalizer) dropped out of the sequel, and was replaced,
surprisingly by Iranian born filmmaker Babak Najafi, the man behind the
Easy Money sequel and Berlin Film Festival darling Sebbe. What's truly
surprising with London is the studio's confidence in an International
director taking the reigns of a quite heavy Pro-America action film,
one that has no problem showcasing the always tacky shots of the
tattered American flag victorious whisking in the wind over a sunrise
or sunset. Furthermore, the film, which was pushed from an October 2015
release date, to a March 2016 release date, before the attacks on Paris
in 2015, really shows the films lucky fate of avoiding a box office
disaster. One has to think, are these attack still in the minds of
people and will it affect its overall performance overseas?

******
6 March 2016
5
"London has Fallen" is, to myself, an attempt at squeezing more out of
the pockets of viewers by riding along the coattails of the superior
first movie: "Olympus has Fallen". "London" truly embraced its R rating
by insisting that the movie could not have five minutes of dialog
without ten vulgarities and about half of those being the f-word.
Suggesting to see this movie with my family which consists of younger
children was a huge mistake and I would advise all others to avoid
repeating it. There was very little development of characters and the
enemy was not fully fleshed out so the challenge that our protagonists
faced felt trivial. However, the movie does have some redeeming
qualities. Gerard Butler and Aaron Eckhart have wonderful chemistry
with each-other and really build off of their performances to create a
simultaneously humorous and friendly experience; you can truly see that
their characters care for each-other. The action sequences were intense
and I was rarely sitting back or bored because the movie was in a
constant state of mania and hardcore fighting. That worked well for my
group, but for some it may be unappealing. Overall I would recommend
this movie if you are simply looking to have a good time, but do not
expect anything above that.

******
3 March 2016
5
Seriously!! And his name is Gerard Butler. He single handedly protected
the whole of London and Potus. I think he can take down Iron Man. I can
see new movie title in horizon - IronMan vs. GunMan.Ohh did I tell you the inspiration for the movie? I think it is based
on Zombie Apocalypse. Only the symptoms of the infections were
different. They were everywhere - every human were infected, good
uninfected human were hardly anywhere. Symptom of infection was
different though - middle aged men with guns.So we have a superhero who can potentially take down IronMan. We have
the settings of a Zombie Apocalypse, we are hardly ever bothered with
logic anywhere, we have gun violence that can put "The Expendables" to
shame - Whats not the like??? My advice - Have a couple of drinks
before going, or when you feel like keeping your brain in a freezer go
for the movie. You will love it.

******
3 March 2016
5
Whats good : Gerard Butler, Aron Eckhart and Morgan Freeman all give good
performances in an action packed film. Some good one liner comedy from
Butler and Eckhart.Whats not so good: The film is so 'action packed' that Butler stabbing,
hacking and shooting his way through so many bad guys it almost gets
monotonous. The genre does need to be watched with the understanding that it's
macho fiction nonsense . However, in London Has Fallen The whole
scenario is so unbelievable it's ludicrous. There's not much actual 'plot', lots of stereotype characters and
clichés. So no real storyline or character development other than that
which was already introduced in Olympus has Fallen. It's mostly Butler
hacking/stabbing/shooting/killing. Whats bad:The CGI crashes/explosions are sub standard, i.e. very obvious. SUMMARY: It's not as good as Olympus Has Fallen e.g. I would give that
7/10. London Has Fallen I only gave 5/10Olympus Has Fallen was at least 'sort of' plausible, if you were
prepared to take a pinch of salt. The characters were much more
developed with a much better baddie and 'evil plot'.London Has Fallen is not terrible, the cast do a good job. But the
'story' mostly consists of just Butler violently killing almost
everyone in his path.Olympus Has Fallen is the kind of action film you can enjoy watching
more than once. I doubt I would bother watching London Has Fallen again.In my opinion it's not worth a costly cinema trip. I predict it will very shortly be in the £3 DVD section.

******
3 March 2016
5
Movies like this one often receive flack for not having a cinematic
narrative to accompany the larger than life display on screen. However,
I like to look at movies such as London Has Fallen or last year's
Olympus Has Fallen as a way to experience great shallow spectacle and
some laughs for a couple of hours. One of the chief reasons that this
film is fun and exciting to watch is the cast. Gerard Butler, Aaron
Eckhart, accompanied by the phenomenal Angela Bassett, and Morgan
Freeman will have your attention throughout the story. It is very
important for an otherwise cliché action political thriller to contain
excellent actors who can add that touch of quality that films in this
sub-genre of action need. A side effect of this film could be
heightened awareness to the unrest in the middle east and terrorism
when you least expect it. There really isn't much to dissect or analyze
in this movie, so it is one of those that you take for what it is. An
action-packed couple of hours that is thrilling with some laughs here
and there.The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is dead, and his funeral
becomes the most highly secured event on earth. Politicians and leaders
from all over the world gather to mourn the loss of a beloved leader.
Along with the other world leaders, the U.S. President is also in
attendance. When tragedy strikes at St. Paul's Cathedral, many are left
dead and injured. Just when the UK and the rest of the world thinks it
can rely on its own military and palace guards, the terrorists have
infiltrated the very inner workings of England's security, military,
and public safety. No one can be trusted. Armed with his "bourbon and
bad choices," secret service agent Mike Banning (Gerard Butler)
protects President Asher (Eckhart) and Secret Service Director Lynn
Jacobs (Bassett) and tried to get them to safety when all hell breaks
loose. Vice President Trumbull (Freeman) must helplessly watch the
terror unfold. Just when things couldn't get any worse, Asher winds up
in the hands of the terrorists and Banning must rescue him before he is
publicly executed online.What a weekend for movies. You have your choices of this one, Zootopia,
Whiskey Tango Foxtrot (which I am seeing tonight), and more. Really
looking forward to Tina Fey's movie tonight.

******
3 March 2016
5
Sadistic, xenophobic in the extreme, hateful, nasty, full of horrible
cgi effects (computer generated helicopters again, why!!!) and
insensitive to the time it's being released in. Never the less, the
"retrograde, stab the bad guys heads" attitude of the film is a gleeful
hearkening back to the less politically correct times of 80's/90's ear
Arnie movies, and it gets down to the often vicious violence,
satisfying baddie kills and hard action with little pretense and less
respect for human life or morality, and sometimes this is exactly the
sort of cinematic junk food you need, not good for you at all but
certainly hits the spot. So if you can gets past the murky, hard to see
cinematography of the movie, the fact that it actually looks pretty
cheap and tacky like it was made on half the budget of the first, and
some questionable taste then you'll probably have a good time. Please
let Gerard Butler continue to stab bad guys heads and keep him away
from romantic comedies!Source: http://www.megashare-viooz.net/london-has-fallen-2016.html

******
11 March 2016
5
"London has fallen" is an American action thriller which is the second
instalment of the series after "Olympus has fallen". Wait let me think
of some keywords that can best describe the movie's plot, let me shoot
you those (read it with gunshots on background of your mind) here we go
- Challenging the absolute Power, attacking the control white house,
bringing down white house, kidnapping Mr. President, Hijacking the Air
force one, Secret service, MI 6, Betraying agents, Terrorist attack,
assassinations, world leaders, bomb attacks, bugging integral control
systems and bringing down iconic structures or landmarks. I guess by now your minds should puzzle around movie titles "White
House Down" "Vantage Point" "Air force one" "Big game" or some of the
"Clint Eastwood" titles. So after all the math I thought this itself is
one of the overdone genres in Hollywood that is "saving the US
president" genre. So having said that coming to this movie I was wondering does it have
anything new to offer? No absolutely not but the melodramatic elements
in this movie along with Gerard Butler will be enough to entertain you
fairly. On the downside, the plot has no logic at all and completely marred by
B grade VFX which made me feel like a direct to a home movie rather
pure cinema kinds. So get in for a strict one-time watch for Gerard Butler.

******
9 March 2016
7
Spoilers are definitely coming. Sorry, I had to write the title like
that because I didn't see "Olympus Has Fallen", the series pilot film
of this series, but I did see "White House Down" and this was how the
film felt to me as I was watching this. And it all does back to "Die
Hard" anyway. But this film comes nowhere as good as "Die Hard", or
"Die Hard 2" were. It doesn't match up to "Air Force One". Why? Because
after the initial attack happens, the story and characters stop
developing and just rehashed the same old clichés. It is even obvious
who the inside trader is while all the other films I had mentioned
(except "White House Down") keeps developing the story and characters
as the film continues and thus keeps the audience engaged and held in
suspense. I just wasn't kept guessing what was going to happen next the
way a good action suspense film should do in this genre. Here is the basic plot. A terrorist arms dealer wants to get revenge
for a botched attempt to assassinate him but killed his daughter and
family instead. Set he sets a trap by poisoning the Prime Minister of
Great Britian and then plans to kill all the heads of state who attends
the funeral. Once the attack happens, the US president and his trusty
secret service agent must run a gauntlet in order to get the president
to safety. That would have been fine enough because the action is good.
The effects are spectacular. The cinematography was great. The director
does compose great visuals. But the story runs through all the clichés
including Shakespeare's famous one from Macbeth were a tender moment is
shown for a character to raise the audience's sympathy for that
character and then that character get brutally murdered. They even used
the girl giving a flower to someone cliché that comes straight from the
wedding scene in "The Guns Of Navarone". (Yes, I did think of that when
I saw it and thought that something bad is going to happen to that
lady.) But the worst part of the film is how they underutilized some
strong actors that I haven't seen for while: Colin Salmon, Robert
Forster, and Angela Bassett. Forster and Salmon were reduced to talking
head cameos almost. They are better than that.But if you like action without too much thinking, then this film is for
you.

******
6 March 2016
6
I had been waiting months for this to come out, I thought it'd be all
about Britain but once again it was all about the United States of
America and London just happened to be the battlefield. A car bomb went
off, then the Queen's Guard went nuts and shot the German chancellor,
then all hell broke loose. It is extremely unlikely there would be a
rogue Queen's Guard as those guys have to train in the British Army for
decades. If like me you were looking to see the houses of parliament
and the Tory government getting blown up, you'll be disappointed. All
we saw was a Sky news report saying parliament was heavily damaged.
People say this is a Die Hard type movie, but I'd say it's more of a
Call of Duty style movie. Overall I was a little disappointed, but I
don't feel I'd wasted my money going to see it.

******
6 March 2016
5
London Has Fallen is a dumb action movie with no story or any
development, and that's what I was expecting going in and that's what I
got. I would be lying if I said I didn't enjoy myself watching this
movie, because I did (for what it is). There were a few good actions
scenes that was pretty well done and Gerard Butler makes for an
enjoyable lead. I know this movie isn't suppose to be taken too
seriously, because you would look like a right fool if you take any of
this movie serious, but i can't pretend or act like i don't see the
major flaws in this movie. I think the biggest thing that really hurt
this movie is the noticeable CGI, which is absolutely awful and looks
completely unfinished. Aaron Eckhart basically plays the male version
of a damsel in distress and Jackie Earle Haley doesn't even do anything
in this film.Overall, if you want a movie that's non-stop action and doesn't make
any sense at all, but you want to have a good time, then London Has
Fallen is the movie for you.

******
8 March 2016
7
London HAS FALLEN (2016) ** Gerard Butler, Aaron Eckhart, Morgan
Freeman, Radha Mitchell, Angela Bassett, Jackie Earle Haley, Robert
Forster, Melissa Leo, Charlette Riley, Patrick Kennedy. Lackluster
sequel to OLYMPUS HAS FALLEN retread with Secret Service Agent Butler
once again tasked into protecting The President of The United States
(Eckhart reprising his role) this time from Middle Eastern terrorism in
the UK set at the funeral for the British Prime Minister. Wildly
over-the-top to the point of cartoonery and Butler practically foaming
at the mouth which each kill the attempt to cash in on its DIE HARD
rip-off franchise leaves one just exhausted no thanks in part to the
frenetically off-kilter direction by Babak Najafi and the committee of
scribes tooling this high octane machine.

******
6 March 2016
9
Exciting movie with excellent visual effects & great action. A really
good follow up to Olympus Has Fallen. I would say it's more of an 8 to
8.5 so I rated it a 9 since the overall 6.5 rating is stupidly low.
Your prototypical movie critics are usually a little loony with a group
think mentality & they stick their snobbish noses in the air on movies
like this & help drag down the ratings. It's definitely better than
that. Story is simplistic but so are most movies. 1 minor implausible
tidbit but I'll not be a spoiler. Figure it out for yourself. It in no
way deterred my enjoyment of the film. The acting was solid but no one
is going to win an award, it's not that kind of flick. A thrilling
action ride that will get you on the edge of your seat for much of the
film. Go see it & have a good time.

******
6 March 2016
8
This is crazy nonsensical fun. Is the dialogue award winning? No. Does
it highlight deeper meanings about the world we live in? No. Does it
have anything to add to the genre? Well, not really. Is it a fun time
to pass 99 minutes? Yes - by Jove it is. Action, death,explosions, the
occasional one liner, lots of running, a slightly crazed over the top
'baddie'and nice exterior shots of the UK capitol. What's not to like
about this movie? It isn't trying to make political or social
commentary - it's a nonsensical action movie, and it isn't trying to be
anything else. I liked it. If you want escapism and silliness with your
explosions then you might like it too.

******
4 March 2016
6
People who have watched Olympus has Fallen do not need to read a review
of London has Fallen, its pretty much the same film with different
action set pieces. And honestly thats really not a bad thing, because
one goes into a film like London has Fallen to just sit down,relax and
destress for the 1hr 30 min + runtime, its logic less popcorn
entertainment at its best. Its what I call leave your brains at home
cinema, and for a film like London has Fallen, everyone knows what
there getting into before viewing the film, so do not except anything
meaningful, or some cinematic moment in the film, LHF is just kickass
fun. Gerard Butler is the new, Bruce Willis, and LHF is the new Die
Hard 2.0.Story wise after the British Prime Minister passes away, his funeral
becomes a target of a terrorist organization to destroy some of the
world's most powerful leaders, devastate the British capital, and
unleash a terrifying vision of the future. The only hope of stopping it
rests on the shoulders of the President of the United States (Aaron
Eckhart) and his formidable Secret Service head (Gerard Butler), but
there is one hitch the middle eastern terrorists want American
Presidents head on a platter, otherwise they wont stop the blood shed.Acting wise Gerard Butler is at his action best. He totally kicks ass
on screen, and one can see the hard work he puts into his stunts.He is
a killing machine in the film. Watch out for his climax fight scene he
goes into COD mode. He also has some comical hard hitting dialogues
which are corny, and awesome at the same time. Aaron Eckhart serves
more as a henchman to Gerard rather than acting like the President, but
he is adequate in his role. Morgan Freeman is good as always, in his
brief role as Vice President.London has Fallen really has no story to gloat about, its a rehash of
any clichéd action film were they try to save the world. While the
prequel talked about North Korean terrorists,here we see Muslim
terrorist, so the makers try to be a little up to date to todays times
I guess. Action wise the film gets full marks because this is were the
film is gripping and thrilling as hell. The explosions, the car chases,
the gun fights, are all first rate, and give a sense of a "bang for you
buck,"type of feeling(meaning your money was well spent with this
film). The CGI, and VFX that were showing, London bridges,buildings,
explode were good. LHF however though made to be a completely logic
less film ( the whole main premise is laughable, and extremely
impossible)has some cringe worthy scenes that are too over the top its
hard to unnotice them. For example, how the heck do the President and
his body guard survive a helicopter crash without even one scratch.How
does the President have Olympic medal aim with a gun when he says again
and again its first time using a gun. Also the whole stereotypical
Muslim terrorist angle is getting really old in films now, show some
novelty at at least in the film somewhere.However people who relished
90s Hollywood action films like Die Hard will lap LHF. The films
production values were great, and one can see that a lot of money was
put into this film,there is beautiful scenery at every blink. The films
highlight scene is the climax action scene when Gerard Butler goes into
full Call Of Duty mode, and is killing with a SMG, and jumping into
buildings.Overall watch London has Fallen if your looking to watch a complete de
stressing film, that has kickass action, just remember too switch of
your brain before the beginning of the film and enjoy the most over the
top film of the year. Its not a great film, but its enjoyable and a
bang for your buck. Its nice to see a light film after seeing such
heavy films week after week.3.25/5* 66% C+

******
8 March 2016
10
It's a real action Movie! I have seen more than 15'000 confirmed movies
and this is easily one of the best Action-Movies, I've ever seen. Shure
did I know how this movie will end, but this was never a problem for
me. It's a real Action-Movie, So if you like a good Action-Movie, you
will be exactly right here, don't judge it for something else. I don't
understand the haters. I like stereotypes, I did not need more content
or a deeper story. I like to know what I buy and in this case I was
100% satisfied. Gerard Butler was great in contrast to God of Egyp.
Time flies, I only wish it would had been half an hour longer, it ended
too soon.

******
7 March 2016
10
Saw this this weekend and was completely entertained with the great
acting and direction of this movie. Would definitely recommend this for
anyone who likes to stay glued to the edge of your seat for non stop
action! Love it! Great movie! Hooray for the good guys! The scenario is
totally realistic and somewhat frightening.Fighting on the side of right, the coalition of different government
patriots bring victory against the evil that we see so much of today in
the world. Total intense awesome acting by Gerard Butler.Just LOVE
Gerard Butler! Would never want to get on his bad side! Fantastic all
around!Special effects were fabulous! Be sure and see this thrilling,
and intense movie today. As soon as it comes out on DVD I am buying
one! Love it!

******
6 March 2016
8
Although neither as ambitious nor as surprising as Antoine Fuqua's
"Olympus Has Fallen" (2013), the sequel "London Has Fallen" qualifies
as a good, old-fashioned, slam-bang, action thriller that should appeal
to anybody who craved "The Expendables" movies. "300" star Gerard
Butler reprises his role as indestructible, straight-shooting Secret
Service Agent Mike Banning, and he bais U.S. President Ben Asher's butt
out of another predictable, but electrifying predicament as terrorists
swarm around them like furious hornets. A quartet of scenarists,
Christian Gudegast of "Beyond the City Limits" and Chad St. John of
"The Punisher, Dirty Laundry" co-scripted with "Olympus" creators
Creighton Rothenberger & Katrin Benedikt who also came up with the
story, has shifted the setting from Washington, D.C., to London,
England. The chief difference here is our hero, who claims to be made
out of "bourbon and bad choices," takes seemingly sadistic pleasure in
torturing the trigger-happy villains. Squeamish spectators are duly
warned because this occurs more than once. In Hollywood movies, the
heroes are given special dispensation to torment homicidal terrorists
as often as heartless Nazis and other intolerant racist dastards.
Banning stabs one terrorist to death slowly and lets the terrorist's
ruthless brother at the other end of a cell phone listen to his sibling
die in agony. Indeed, Banning displays minimal emotion when turning
terrorists into sieves with one kind of weapon or another. Some of them
Banning dispatches at long range with an assault rifle and others at
close range with his pistol. Iranian-born Swedish director Babak
Najafi, who helmed "Easy Money 2: Hard to Kill," gives neither the
heroes nor the villains the luxury to loiter in this tense,
nail-biting, 100-minute melodrama that corners our good guys from the
get-go and doesn't let them relax until the final quarter hour. Mind
you, nothing about "London Has Fallen" is remotely believable, and the
characters are all one-dimensional. Banning is the only one to change
over time; he becomes a father by fade-out. Once they arrive in London,
the entire story elapses in less than 24 hours. Nevertheless, Butler's
gutsy performance as an audacious hero who doesn't stop shooting until
he runs out of lead, a brawny as well as believable cast, and the
scenic city on the River Thames are its best assets.Unlike the rogue North Koreans who manufactured the mayhem in "Olympus
Has Fallen," vengeance-driven Middle Eastern terrorists plan the
pandemonium in "London Has Fallen." Affluent arms merchant Aamir
Barkawi (Alon Aboutboul of "Rambo 3") and his eldest son Kamran (Waleed
Zuaiter of "Jihad") orchestrate payback for a Pentagon drone strike
that missed them, but killed their sister at her wedding in Pakistan.
Miraculously, Aamir and Kamran survived the devastation. The Pentagon
bombing takes place two years before the anarchy erupts in "London."
News of the death of British Prime Minister Jim Wilson brings foreign
heads of state to London to attend Wilson's funeral. Banning and Secret
Service Director Lynne Jacobs (Angela Bassett of "Innocent Blood")
accompany President Asher. We are given glimpses of several other heads
of state in London in route to Wilson's funeral. No sooner than the
Americans arrive at St. Paul's Cathedral do the terrorists launch their
strike. Fanatics masquerading as British police as well as the
red-uniformed Queen's Guard open fire on the German Chancellor. One
foreign dignitary is blown up in his car after a terrorist disguised as
a policeman attaches a bomb with a device used to search under
vehicles. Asher is standing on the steps of St. Paul conversing with a
member of the Prime Minister's cabinet when the fusillade of gunfire
surprises everybody. Only a moment before the debacle, Agent Mike
Banning complained that something wasn't right, but he couldn't decide
what bothered him. Banning hustles the President into their bulletproof
SUV, and they careen toward the Presidential choppers on the ground
with terrorists on bikes strafing their vehicle. Terrorists kill the
SUV driver, but Banning, Asher, and Jacobs make it to the choppers.
London landmarks explode during this bedlam. The Marine choppers make
it aloft. Terrorists wielding surface to air missiles demolish all
three helicopters. Miraculously, Banning, Asher, and Jacob survive the
crash of their chopper. The action focuses on Banning and Asher as more
terrorists on bikes assemble around the crash site, and they have to
leave Jacobs behind. Eventually, Banning and Asher reach an MI-6 safe
house, but the rescue team that Vice President Alan Trumbull (Morgan
Freeman of "The Shawshank Redemption") sends in doesn't make it.
Instead, a bogus bunch reach Asher and Banning and storm the safe
house. Our heroes careen off in another bulletproof car. Naturally,
Mike Banning leads a charmed life, and he brings down more than his
share of terrorists. At times, the shoot-outs in "London" resemble a
high body count Hong Kong action-thriller."Olympus Has Fallen" was released roughly twelve years after the 9/11
tragedy, and the filmmakers tapped into the terrible memory of that
event. Director Babak Najafi started shooting "London Has Fallen" in
October 2014, and filming concluded in February 2015 before the
horrific Paris massacre made headlines in November 2015. Although it
takes place in a different city under different circumstances, "London
Has Fallen" derives a modicum of plausibility from the Paris massacre
as "Olympus" did from 9/11. Unlike "Olympus" that exploited that
anxiety, "London" foreshadowed it. Some commentators' have contended
cynically that the producers could forge a franchise from this formula
with Banning and Asher visiting other capitals and encountering
disorder. Compared to "Olympus," "London" is far less ambitious.
Several actors and actresses along with Butler have recreated their
roles for "London," and one of them bites the dust. This character's
demise is the only genuine surprise. The President mentions his son in
this sequel, but we never get to see him. Basically, Banning and Asher
stomp the ground in "London." Although it carbon copies the formula
from "Olympus Has Fallen," "London Has Fallen" generates considerable
suspense and ranks as an above-average urban action thriller.

******
6 March 2016
7
London has Fallen pretty much takes Olympus has Fallen and added extra
meat. I remember in Olympus has Fallen there was this bad ass fight scene
between Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) and the main bad guy which was
like "oh snap" Dope. It felt like London has Fallen just kept repeating
that scene with every action sequence.It's not as dramatic as the original movie (though we got some cool War
room moments from Morgan Freeman reprising his role as Allan Trumbull,
and some emotional moments from Angela_Bassett as Lynne Jacobs), It
falls into the cliché of most sequels of it's kind, going for bigger,
badder, and better, but unlike most sequels of this fashion, London has
Fallen hands down delivers. While Olympus has Fallen took place mostly in around The White House,
this time around Mike Banning has to get President Asher (played by
Aaron Eckhart) out of the entire city of London, After a criminal
getting revenge for his dead family arranges to have every leader of
the Western world assassinated during the funeral of the British Prime
Minster, In what feels like the strangest buddy cop movie ever. Butler
and Eckhart trade one-liners that would make Riggs and Murtaugh of
Lethal Weapon fame, blush. It's funny, they tried that in the similar
plotted film, White House Down, that came out the same year as Olympus
has Fallen, but it did not work there like it does here.Maybe because when it comes down to it Butler got to get his action
hero on and it was pretty stellar, thanks to some great camera
direction that made the whole movie look like a video game I was
playing. Everything was just so close together that we are right there
on the quiet empty streets of London deep in the action that does not
quit.It's a great 90mins of pure action and it works.

******
6 March 2016
9
"London Has Fallen" is the best action film that I've had the pleasure
to watch so far this year! As expected, a good majority of the cast
comes back as well, which is a nice touch. Gerard Butler, Aaron
Eckhart, Angela Bassett, and Morgan Freeman are ALL in top form here!
An interesting thing about this sequel is that you don't necessarily
have to watch "Olympus Has Fallen" (which was still good) in order to
understand this film...unless you just want more of a background on the
relationship of the characters. In any case, I liked the fact that this
film once again resembled a more grittier version of "Die Hard" too, as
I am also a fan of that series as well.It should also be noted that Mike and his wife are expecting a child
and have devoted a room in their home as the child's future nursery.
Mike's wife originally expresses concern about him going on another
mission with the President, but accepts what he is about to do anyway
and wishes him luck.The central focus of this film basically has U.S. Special Forces
soldier turned Secret Service agent Mike Banning protecting the
President once again, as they go on an unexpected trip to London,
England after it is revealed that the country's Prime Minister, James
Wilson, has died. President Asher and several other world leaders have
basically been called upon to join as one as they honor the Prime
Minister's life and end up meeting at a large Cathedral which is
located in the heart of London.However, just as Banning and the President, along with Secret Service
Director Lynn Jacobs make their way to the Cathedral, pandemonium
ensues as terrorists, led by Aamir Barkawi, who is #6 on the FBI's "10
Most Wanted" list, infiltrate the heavily guarded area. An impressive
amount of action occurs at this point, including a well thought out car
chase sequence as Banning speeds through the streets with the President
and Director Jacobs at they try to outrun the terrorists. At this point
in the film, we find out that former Speaker of the House Allan
Trumbull (Freeman), who is now the United States Vice President, is
overseeing all major U.S. operations and is working with the
President's staff in the White House Situation Room, receiving updates
on the situation as time goes by.Eventually, however, as the President, Director Jacobs and Banning all
board the Presidential helicopter, it unfortunately gets shot down,
with everyone surviving except Director Jacobs, who appears to have
been wounded by a piece of shrapnel from the helicopter crash. With not
much time to spare, the President and Banning say their final goodbyes
to Director Jacobs and depart from the wreckage before the terrorists
catch up to them.Not long after, Banning and the President find an MI6 approved
bulletproof government vehicle (it looks like a BMW) and use it to try
and make their escape. Unfortunately, they are ran off the road by one
of the terrorist's trucks and the President is kidnapped. Knowing this,
Banning then teams up with government officials (presumably the U.S.
Delta team) to track down the President, who is being held hostage by
Kamran Barkawi, Aamir's son and one of his henchmen. Just as Kamran is
about to decapitate the President, Banning bursts through the doors and
gets into a brief fistfight with Kamran, only for him to flee. Not
letting him get away, Banning orders the Delta team to blow the
building's gas lines as he successfully escapes, with not a moment to
spare, with the President of the United States. Kamran is then killed
along with his thugs in the process.An interesting plot twist with this film, however, revolves around
Jacqueline "Jax" Marshall, a British MI6 agent, who has been working in
tandem with Banning and U.S. officials during this whole situation. She
discovers that MI5 Intelligence Chief John Lancaster (Patrick Kennedy)
is the traitor who helped Barkawi and the terrorists and then ends up
killing him in self-defense. Once Barkawi's compound in Yemen is
discovered by U.S. officials, Trumbull calls Barkawi and lets him know
that he has lost. Barkawi is ultimately killed by a U.S. airstrike (or
drone strike) on his compound.Before the film ends, Vice President Trumbull is seen on T.V.
addressing the nation on the crisis while Banning is typing up a
resignation letter to the U.S. government. Once Trumbull assures the
American public that the U.S. will prevail, Banning deletes the letter
of resignation and the film ends.In summary, even if you weren't a fan of the first film or didn't get
the chance to see the first film, I'd highly recommend seeing this one.
Moreover, if you're a fan of action films with a sensible story plot,
then this film is for you. With that being said, I will definitely be
picking this one up once it is available for purchase!

******
6 March 2016
10
A perfect sequel to Olympus Has Fallen. Full of action with the
adrenaline rising every minute. Even though we know the characters, the
plot is different and very interesting and up to the times. After all
this is the era of terrorism unfortunately (let's not forget it) and
for those of us who are against all forms of terrorism this is the
perfect movie. Very enjoyable and well played by all actors. I do not
categorize this movie in the intellectual category however. It is what
it is and perfect as such. As for those people who trash it, why do
they go see such movies if they don't like them??? I wonder. I enjoyed
this movie and this does not make me stupid; I also liked Trumbo and
gave it a 10 because I found what I was looking for in it. I enjoy
animated movies as well as comedies and drama. So, don't be so
melodramatic and trash this movie. Just keep away from it and let those
of us who enjoy a variety enjoy London Has Fallen.

******
4 March 2016
6
I was looking forward to London Has Fallen for a few reasons. I loved
Olympus Has Fallen, most of the cast returned, and no matter what kind
of flaws I find, I generally love action movies. A few more of my
thoughts: +Butler is perfect for this type of role. +Supporting cast is
great(Morgan Freeman and Aaron Eckhart especially) +This has a few more
comedic moments when compared to O.H.F. +New director had some new
ideas on how to do an action scene.--Too many cliché characters (pregnant wife at home, man betraying
government, revenge seeking terrorist, you get the idea --CGI appears
like it had a made for TV movie budget, just awful --Mike Banning had
it easy, terrorists will just avoid cover and walk into a bullet or a
knife like they are zombies. I gave a 6/10 because this movie was fast, simple, and kept me
entertained for a few hours. I hope others will enjoy.

******
6 March 2016
8
Better late than never I always say, and therefore I'm back in the
trenches again to bring you another movie review. Today's film is
London Has Fallen, an unexpected sequel to ever popular action film
Olympus Has Fallen. If you remember the first film, things like
explosions, action, and that it was the Gerard Butler version of Die
Hard should come to mind. And while adrenaline junkies (like myself)
enjoyed the thrilling stunts and explosions, I certainly didn't expect
enough ground to make a sequel. Nevertheless, let's get down to another
review. Like its predecessor, London Has Fallen is about one thing: action.
Within the first thirty minutes the excitement breaks out, flashing
guns, detrimental explosions, and extras flopping violently in the
streets. From there, the violence only escalates, amplifying the action
and intensity with each passing minute of the film. The fights are well
choreographed and somewhat diverse to keep the gunplay "fresh", and
utilized different styles of warfare to bring some variety to an
otherwise straightforward combat approach. In terms of the quality of
these scenes, the production team did their jobs well again with very
stable camera work and sound effects to bring you fully into the
stunts. With all these flashy sequences though, one might wonder if there is
more to this blockbuster, popcorn flick. In terms of story, London has
Fallen is not bad. It is another tale of revenge brought about by the
overzealous use of weapons and warfare. As a result, the multiethnic
bad guys create an elaborate trap to bring our heroes to London to
execute them. The simplistic motive, although unoriginal, certainly
worked with the movie and gave a realistic explanation for all the
violence. Only problem was the execution. Where the first movie gave a
little insight into the set up, London forgoes the planning stages and
jumps right into the chaos. While certainly realistic, all of the
targeted deaths happen in the blink of the eye with everything going
conveniently well. It made the whole introduction to all the officials
rather pointless and robbed the movie of some potential suspense. At
least the emotional connections of Butler's character help bring some
edge to the movie…though some of these moments are a bit too
convenient. Speaking of Butler, let's talk about the acting. Despite being the
action thriller, London Has Fallen does a decent job with the acting.
Butler again leads the cast with the same gruff, heroic demeanor we've
come to know and love. His delivery of bodyguard jargon and witty
one-liners (many sounding similar to Die Hard and Arnold Schwarzenegger
quotes) was very humorous. Yet he had some deeper moments in this movie
that smoothed the rough edges and give him a broader emotional
spectrum. Eckhart reprises his role as well and his sullen, calm poise
is perfect for the presidential role. Together the two make a wonderful
brotherhood that is very entertaining to watch, which is good since
they take 85% of the screen time. Our supporting cast deserves a shout
out as well, each playing their part (no matter how short) to the
fullest with only a few trudging into the cheesy side of things. In terms of weaknesses of this movie, London Has Fallen has a few
limitations that need to be addressed. First is that it is a very
simplistic story, devoid of twists or surprises in favor of more
action. I shouldn't be surprised, but I always hope for a shocking
twist to vamp the story up instead of a predictable mess. Second is
that some of the characters were rather pointless to begin with when
you see the theme of the movie, even some of the bad guys who were
built up died quite plainly. With regards to some of the stunts, well
they crossed from impressive into incredibly cheesy, the overuse of CGI
alongside bending reality too much instead of realizing its limits. A
final note is that some of the violence was a bit graphic for my taste,
or at least was done without much point. Seeing extras suffocate or be
slowly stabbed to death does not bring much satisfaction to this
reviewer, but those who like edge will be elated to see what London has
in store for you. Overall London Has Fallen is one of the better action movies of the
year. It's exciting, its flashy, and it has great special effects that
keep you engaged in the movie. The acting is decent for the movie and
brings a fun friendly relationship that brings you further into the
film. But you can't deny what it is and that is a simplistic, popcorn
flick devoid of any real meaning or substance, outside of people are
greedy and war sucks (shocker there right?) Yet the special effects
itself, alongside Gerard Butler, are more than enough reason to
recommend seeing it in theater. Despite all this good though, the
limitations do drop this movie in the mediocre category overall. My scores are: Action/Crime Thriller: 8.0 Movie Overall: 7.0

******
6 March 2016
8
"London Has Fallen" (2016 release); 99 min.) brings more adventure for
the characters we got to know in "Olympus Has Fallen". As the movie
opens, we are in "Punjab Province, 50 mi. north of Lahore, Pakistan",
where we get to know Barkawi, a terrorist mastermind and weapons
dealer, whose compound is attacked by a US drone (we later learn he
survives but his daughter did not). We them go "Two Years Later", and
we see President Asher doing his daily jog, accompanied (of course) by
Secret Service agent Mike Benning, who is expecting his first child
wife his wife Leah in the next 2 weeks. When the British Prime Minister
unexpectedly passes away, the President and his entourage must go to
London on short notice for the funeral. At this point we're perhaps 10
min. into the movie, but to tell you more would spoil your viewing
experience.Couple of comments: this sequel reunites many of the characters we got
to know in "Olympus Has Fallen" several years ago: Gerard Butler, Aaron
Eckhart, Morgan Freeman, Angela Bassett, Melissa Leo, Robert Forster,
and Radha Mitchell all reprise their roles from "Olympus Has Fallen",
so immediately the movie feels familiar, like a true reunion. Newcomer
director Babak Najafi (whom I had never heard of before) more than
capably fills in for "Olympus" director Antoine Fuqua (unavailable due
to other commitments). If you like an action movie, you are in for a
great time. The attack on London is eye-popping due to outstanding CGI
effects. I'm trying to recall if I've ever seen so many air shots of
London that are simply eye-candy, with all those wonderful London
landmarks: St. Paul's Cathedral, Westminster Abbey, The Eye, Buckingham
Palace, etc., they're all there. As to the action scenes, some of them
are outstanding, in particular the chase of the President's Landrover
by a number of baddies on their motorcycles is hair-raising. The
foreign leaders attending the funeral are simply irresistible: there is
German Chancellor Agnes Bruckner (standing in for Angela Merkel), and
of courser we also have Italian Prime Minister Antonio Giusti
(reminding us of former PM Silvio Berlusconi), etc. Despite all the
violence, humor is never far away. At some point, Benning slowly kills
one of the baddies with repeated stabbing. "Was that really
necessary?", asks the President. "No", answers Benning, ha! Later on,
when the final assault is upon us, Benning comments "Things are going
to get sporty!", and indeed they are. If you liked "Olympus Has
Fallen", you will love the London outing of the gang. Now the question
is: where will the gang go next? My personal vote would be for Hong
Kong. How cool would that be! "London Has Fallen" opened nationwide
this weekend. The Saturday evening screening where I saw this at here in Cincinnati
was attended okay (but nowhere near a sellout). I was surprised how
many women were in the audience as this movie is, let's face it, the
guys' reverse version of a "chick flick". My son and I enjoyed "London
Has Fallen" from start to finish, and I couldn't believe how quickly
the movie flashed by. "London Has Fallen" has gotten mostly negative
reviews from the so-called "critics" and "experts", but frankly what do
they know? If you liked "Olympus Has Fallen", I guarantee that you will
love "London Has Fallen", and hence in that sense "London Has Fallen"
is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!

******
5 March 2016
10
I just saw the movie and here is my opinion ... People this movie its
(so far) the best of the year!!! I enjoyed every second. You must see
it! The interpretation of Gerard Butler to the role of Mike Bannign was
great as always. For twenty minutes the things going normal with the
characters enjoy the life in the Olymbus, but after those twenty
minutes everything start falling apart. Mike Banning "strangling"
minute by minute, in a one way road to save the president of USA (and
his friend) Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart). Gun shots and boom
(explosions) taking place everywhere in the movie, with the action
scenes be better than the first and more intense. I know that i am
saying only good comments, and may the movie not deserved a full 10/10
because the music it wasn't so great, but i enjoy the movie and i
believe that the 10/10 is the perfect rating. So if you are a viewer
that love an pure action movie then, this is the one my friend.Go to
the cinema sit back and enjoy.

******
4 March 2016
8
I saw "London Has Fallen", starring Gerard Butler-Gods of Egypt, The
Phantom of the Opera_2004; Aaron Eckhart-I,Frankenstein, Erin
Brockovich; Angela Bassett-Chi_Raq, Green Lantern; Alon Aboutboul-The
Dark Knight Rises, Rambo 3 and Morgan Freeman-Ted 2, the Dolphin Tale
movies.This is a sequel to the 2013 Olympus Has Fallen. In this one, Gerard is
Secret Service Agent/bodyguard to Aaron, aka POTUS. Gerard is married
and has a child on the way so he is thinking about retiring and
becoming a stay at home dad for a while. In fact, he is in the process
of typing his resignation out on his computer when he gets a call from
Aaron, telling him that he is needed once again for a last minute trip
to London for the funeral of the British Prime Minister. Angela comes
along, as the Secretary of Defense. Morgan is the Vice President, so he
has to stay and keep an eye on things at home, while the Prez is away.
Unbeknownst to all the funeral attendees-and there are all kinds of
World leaders attending-it is all an elaborate trap by Alon, the number
6 most wanted terrorist in the World. At least, that is how he is known
by the CIA. It seems that Alon's family was killed about 2 years ago by
a drone strike and now, he wants revenge by taking out as many World
leaders as he possibly can. Only problem is he didn't count on Gerard.
During the movie, London is torn a new one-thank goodness it's just a
movie. Lots of chases, gun battles and even a few good one-liners
thrown in. What more could you ask for? It's rated "R" for violence and
language and has a running time of 1 hour & 39 minutes. I really
enjoyed this one and would buy it on Blu-Ray.

******
5 March 2016
8
True: London has fallen's plot resembles its prequel. True: The movie
doesn't differ from many other action thrillers. HOWEVER: The movie was
in my opinion great! Gerard Butler was born for this role and Eckhart
plays a role that he previously mastered in the dark knight as the
honest leader Harvey Dent. Morgan Freeman's appearances are few so do
not catch this movie with hopes of watching a Freeman performance. I
watched the movie with my friends and father: our opinions did not
differ much it was agreed that we had fun and felt the movie's rush and
thrill. We got what we were hoping for. So If you are looking for a
movie that can capture you for an hour and half with a smart dialogue
and a Fun set of actions this is the movie you should see!!

******
4 March 2016
8
You can usually rely on Millennium films to supply you with that needed
dose of mindless action violence. Be it the expendables, Rambo or any
of their DTV movies, they all usually have something in common. A sense
of fun.London has Fallen, is not as good as the first movie, but crams in a
great dose of action in its 99 minutes run time. Let down slightly by
its sometime poor CGI, typical of a lot of Millennium films, there are
some great action scenes throughout the English Capital. Thankly the
producers stuck to an R rating, as some of the violence is extreme.Gerard Butler is great in the lead, and makes a great action hero. His
character in this sequel is quite sadistic in places, but I felt it
just added to his character. Eckhart is good, but given less to do than
Butler. The supporting cast, other than Charlotte Riley, are all pretty
much short changed, with a lot of them possibly filming their parts in
a few days. Morgan Freeman's first appearance, meeting Butler in the
White House, looks as if it was filmed separately from the rest of the
movie.Director Babak Najafi does a great job with the action, especially with
a one take action scene in a London Alleyway. The scene only let down
slightly by poor effects work. He may not be up to the standards to
Olympus has Fallen director Antoine Fuqua, but carries it off well.

******
3 March 2016
7
I know doing CGI in daytime is pretty difficult, but if this is
Hollywood: expectations are high. They decided to go cheap on the cgi
and look what happens. some things are and should stay expensive. The
movie direction, camera angles, acting were superb; but the CGI was
almost close to those you see in Chinese releases. I wouldn't be
surprised if they hired a team from there. Don't get me wrong not
hating on China, but the masters of CGI are here in the US. The
explosions were so bad it made me cringe. And that London bridge
scene... the physics were worse than what you would see in a low budget
video game. This movie would have been a 8/10, but it deserves
somewhere between 6-7 because of that.

******
8 March 2016
6
London Has Fallen succumbs to generic conventions and a blaring
American ideological agenda, but if you can suspend disbelief long
enough to see the film through, entertainment can be found in an
otherwise weak sequel.If you can get past the lack of invention and blatant stereotypes, and
manage to suspend all belief for its runtime, London Has Fallen can
prove simply entertaining and thrilling in the moment, with the
problematic sequel matching the thrill of the original, if not in its
conviction or political correctness. It's 'Team America!' ideology is a
little harder to swallow, for it is unwaveringly conspicuous. I simply
wish that the film took more risks - and the dispatching of one major
player early on to get them out of the way, does count - and was more
inventive than it is, instead of conforming to general stereotypes and
marginalising groups of people anymore than they already are
marginalised; and including a 'token character' in a relative
non-speaking role, again, does not count.See my full review here;
http://perksofbeingnath.blogspot.co.uk/2016/03/london-has-fallen-
2016-review.html

******
7 March 2016
7
. . . LOND0N HAS FALLEN, America cannot simply bury her head in the
sand and ignore her Foreign Terrorist Enemies. Since the invention of
airplanes and missiles, closing our borders would NOT be enough to Keep
America Safe. "Vetting" folks already in our Homeland is like trying to
shut the barn door after the Trojan Horse has galloped inside. No, as
Mr. Freeman says here to the Last Bad Man Standing, ALL foreigners must
be Vetted where they are. Since the U.S. Constitution only applies in
America, we must consider EVERY foreigner Guilty until Vetted Innocent.
(Edward Snowden proved that our NSA has recorded every word spoken or
written by anyone alive anywhere on the planet since at least the
1900s, so it should not take nuclear rocket surgeons to accomplish this
task.) Those overseas or otherwise foreign folks who cannot convince
President Trump that they're purer than White Sugar should be taken out
with drones, as Freeman, President Aaron Eckhart, and Real Life
American Gameboys stationed in semi-truck trailers on American Air
Force Bases do all the time now. Though this program may sound
expensive, businessman Trump is certain to discover Economies of Scale,
such as taking out some of the smaller Bad Nations (that the World will
never miss) in one fell swoop. No True American (or Londoner) will
disagree with the Freeman\Trump Plan after viewing the carnage
threatening us in LOND0N HAS FALLEN.

******
8 March 2016
7
After the British Prime Minister passes away after what appears to be
complications following a routine operation, his funeral becomes a
target of a terror plot.The plan is to destroy some of the world's most powerful leaders,
devastate the British capital, and unleash a terrifying vision of the
future. The only hope of stopping it rests on the shoulders of the President of
the United States and his formidable, Die Hard loving Secret Service
head, and an English MI-6 agent who rightly trusts no
one..........Apart from Tom Hardy, because she married him in real
life.I didn't care much for Olympus Has Fallen, it was a cardboard cut out
Die Hard Wannabe which just happened to be set in the White House, and
to be honest, I much preferred White House Down, because it was aware
of its own stupidity.So in the year that appears to be the years of totally unnecessary
sequels (see also Bad Santa 2, Kindergarten Cop 2, The Huntsman), this
is one of the first, and one of the most intriguing to me, because the
synopsis is so high concept, you'd think Golan and Globus were in the
house.And while the film isn't good, terribly racist, patriotic on the verge
of parody, it isn't the terrible disaster you'd believe considering the
plethora of bad reviews.I liked it because I was brought up on a diet of macho, patriotic
schtick that used to feature an all American hero, an Uzi, and usually
lots and lots of denim. Basically London Has Fallen is the film that The Cannon Group never
made in the eighties. And believe me, if you are a fan of films like
Invasion U.S.A, Death Wish 4, and Toy Soldiers, you will find much to
enjoy/laugh at in this film.Butler is at his most macho here. He's not the greatest actor in the
world, so he lets his weapons do the talking. Although he does look
constipated for half of the film, he does convince as an action
star.........just.He rest of the cast are great, but they are all phoning in their
performances. Freeman is definitely not in that scene with Butler,
Bassett gives up about thirty minutes in, and I spent more time looking
at Forsters comb forward than listening to him.The effects are exceptionally bad, but only add to the charm of its
absurdity. But watching it, no matter how thrilling some of the set pieces are,
you know that him and the President will be safe, he'll get home to see
his new born, and that resignation will be deleted forever.Coming next, box office has fallen.......

******
6 March 2016
5
Yes, this film is as xenophobic as people are saying and yes it's also
just as clichéd as everyone has pointed out, but if you liked the first
entry, Olympus Has Fallen, I can't help but think you'll at least enjoy
this one. The film brings back just about the entire cast from the first
installment and pits them up against a new threat, this time it's
global. The Prime Minister dies under mysterious circumstances which
brings plenty of the world's leaders to his funeral. While there, Mike
Banning discovers the plot to kill the president and the other leaders.
We then get virtually the same plot as the first film just with the
backdrop of London instead of the White House.Sadly, it doesn't really take advantage of the great cast that it
assembled. Unlike the first film, Morgan Freeman and Melissa Leo are
just faces in a group of people with little lines to work with. We do
however, get the same fun dynamic between Aaron Eckhart and Gerard
Butler to keep us entertained. Eckhart once again proved he's a solid
choice to play the president and this type of role is where Butler
thrives. He gets far more to do than he did in Gods of Egypt, and I'm
grateful for that. He's once again debating quitting the secret service
based on his soon to be fatherhood duties before being thrust back into
the fray in London.The motivations of the villains here don't seem to be as fleshed out as
the first film and thus creating weak character development. The film
is also just as pro-American as the first outing which can turn off
some for sure. In all, there's nothing really new here with this story
or execution. Besides from a few cool long takes towards the end of the
film, the action is generic and hindered by overuse of shaky-cam. The
actors are stuck with a less than sub-par script that doesn't do much
of anything unique. But with all that said, it's hard not to at least
enjoy Butler and Eckhart having fun with their characters in this
bombastic sequel.+Butler & Eckhart+Some good long takes of action-Derivative-Doesn't flesh out its villains-Wastes the talent of its actors5.8/10

******
5 March 2016
6
From the previous title, or even this title, audience would have a
clear idea of what's promised here. It's "save the president" themed
action movie, sets in London. There are famous names actors to elevate
the story, but it should be no surprise that the drama portion is
average. They do succeed on advancing the action into full blown combat
spectacle from continuous shoot-out and rapid brutal slashing.Benjamin Asher (Aaron Eckhart), the president of USA, has an obligation
to attend the funeral of British Prime Minister. Along with his trusty
bodyguard and soon-to-be part time dad, Mike Banning (Gerard Butler) he
embarks in the trip, and as we all know it, London is eventually hit
with terrorist attack. The story is plain it operates on a strict
linear motion with barely any twist at all even though it has actors
who worked on this genre before.The main idea is the same patriotism and duty-bound motive, which is
arguably worked slightly better than the predecessor, but it often
becomes too flat in delivery. Some of the scenes feel too forced to
create tension and it ends up too cliché in the process. Script doesn't
produce any solid interaction as it relies on too much on misguided
bravado and the comedy aspect only works partially. Furthermore, the
intended twist is far from effective since it doesn't develop nicely,
if any at all.Fortunately, this is a definite step up action-wise. Chase scenes,
melee brawls and gun fights are far more intense and better
choreographed. It has the luxury of great continuous shots action in no
shortage of speed and impact, almost similar to video game sequences.
There's also the addition of CG for large scale attack, understandable
since they have to present actual London under siege, though it's
inferior to the psychical combat counterpart."London Has Fallen" is miles from the predecessor in term of action,
but it might not be an appealing visit for those wanting complex
narrative.

******
3 March 2016
6
I feel that it is necessary for me to tell you all first that I did not
see Olympus has fallen so I will not be comparing the two movies. Short
and sweet bad guys kill many important people on the way to a funeral
for the British Prime Minister, Gerard Butler is in town with the
president played by Aaron Eckhart and they team up with a group to take
down some terrorist. Visually appealing lots of explosions and one
liners between Butler and Eckhart made this movie worth watching for
me. I definitely found myself invested in the characters at least
enough for me to want to go back and watch the first one. The problems
are simple for me I feel like there is room to grow these stories a bit
and make the terrorist a little more diabolical. The cursing became
gratuitous at times and there was a part when a mole was discovered and
that part was basically a tick on this movies butt. It felt rushed and
it could have made things more exciting had they made it more of a
focus during the film. Gerard Butler gives me hope as an action star
finally in this movie because in other films of his I have not been
impressed. So kudos to him! See it in the theater, watch it on red box,
give it look.

******
4 March 2016
6
Assorted world leaders collect in London for a state funeral.
Unfortunately, it transpires that an enormous group of terrorists has
also collected in London and, posing as emergency services, they
destroy vast quantities of London, cut off communications, and manage
to kill all the heads of state and a large number of innocent
civilians. All, that is, except US President Asher and his chief
security operative Mike Banning, now best buddies after the events of
Olympus Has Fallen a couple of years ago. And Asher is the very bloke
the terrorists are after – they want to execute him live on the
internet – so Banning starts doing his thing in a London which appears
to be almost deserted.Dear me, this is tosh. So was its predecessor, but the things which
seem slightly ridiculous in the relatively small context of the White
House seems preposterous in the context of a city like London. I don't
mean the destroying of landmarks – 9/11 showed us that was all too easy
– I mean the apparent absence of any security protocols to deal with
terrorists posing as emergency services, contingencies to deal with the
failure of CCTV and telecommunications generally.And I'm not even going to address Banning killing terrorists with
nearly every shot while none of the terrorists could hit a barn door,
If you like action, there is truckloads of it here. The London location
work is pleasing, although some of the filming is so jittercammed that
you can't tell whether the geography is right or not. The token
attempts at humanising the apparently indestructible Banning are
pointless – trying to construct jeopardy over whether he will survive
or not is irrelevant when every frame of film shows you that these
terrorists couldn't scratch him no matter how hard they tried. And that
is probably the main flaw of this movie – there's nothing at stake,
really, apart from CGI destruction of landmarks.Gerard Butler flings out a few one-liners and looks hard. Aaron Eckhard
is a principled POTUS, and Morgan Freeman oozes dignified gravitas to
the extent that she should be President really, not Eckhard.This is a genuinely brainless popcorn movie.

******
4 March 2016
8
Saw it last night and thoroughly enjoyed it. It took what was good
about the original film and built up on that, minimizing the lower
points of its predecessor. Butler's, Freeman's and Eckhart's
performances were exactly as expected; good for the type of film it is,
but nothing Oscar worthy. The fight scenes were well choreographed and
executed as were the multiple gun-fight scenes. I saw no problems with
the CGI, but I was focused on the entire production and not attempting
to nit-pick as some reviewers on IMDb apparently set out to do! The
dialogue was what one would expect from a action B-Movie, but not
overly cheesy. Yes, as with any action flick in this genre, there were
some plot holes -- but nothing so obvious as to distract from the
overall quality of the movie.If you go to movies to view socially conscious, poignant cinema -- then
this film isn't for you. If you go to be mindlessly entertained, then
this film will not let you down, just don't expect it to stick with you
afterward.

******
4 March 2016
7
World leaders attend a funeral in London to be met by a well organized
revenge attack. Many people get killed but: will the USA President
escape?!What saves this film is that for about 90% of the picture it is
watchable action and hence sufficient to keep the viewer's attention.The negatives are firstly below average special effects; secondly, most
of the actors except for the "baddies" are unconvincing and lack
charisma. Where this movie can get a high vote is the full throttled
often non stop action which just about cancels out the negatives.For the above reasons I can give this 6 and a half, which I generously
round up to:7/10.

******
4 March 2016
7
As well as several other well-known London landmarks in this 'comic
book' movie which is heavy on the pyrotechnics and short on coherent
narrative. Gerard Butler is perfect as the President's bodyguard and
expectant father. He is trying to retire but is pressed back into
service for a funeral for a world leader, in this case the Prime
Minister of Great Britain. All world leaders assemble in London for the
funeral which turns out to be a booby trap set by a vengeful Al Qaeda
leader.Do you like escapist entertainment, the kind in which things blow up
and have a high body count? If not, stay home. But I find this type of
fantasy cathartic - the good guys win and the bad guys lose, with
buckets of blood and bad guys biting the dust in virtually every scene.
And at the end, our hero Butler emerges unscathed after getting shot,
falling down an elevator shaft, getting t-boned in an SUV by an assault
vehicle and surviving a helicopter crash. Great stuff. Like I said, not for all tastes but it's a nice change of
pace from reality.

******
3 March 2016
10
Hands down the most exciting thriller in years. The pace is just right
and the story is well laid out by establishing the reason for the
attack by taking out the the arms dealer in the beginning. Things move
quickly from DC to London where rather tongue in cheek humor shows the
different heads of state including a woman for Germany and an older man
with a young lady/ mistress for Italy. The action is very well done. Nothing deja vu here. You've get
everything here. Firstly the disaster sequences are well done - not
fake looking because they aren't over the top, from car bombs to
bridges and Westminster Abbey blown up to boats exploding. The
helicopter sequence is outstanding and quite scary. Then there are some
pretty impressive fight scenes that are brisk and fresh. The street
fighting scenes are almost video game like but entertaining. Finally
even though you know the outcome, the threat of online beheading is
quite scary.Gerard Butler is surprisingly right for the role - believable in his
action and convincing in his determination. He acts like someone who
could pull it off and delivers some snappy one liners. Aaron Eckhart
plays the President who can handle a weapon. Good support from Angela
Bassett and of course Morgan Freeman is the Vice President. Charlotte
Riley handles things on the British side and she is not too glamorous
to be unrealistic.There may be a bit of political incorrectness in the way there the
"terrorists" are dispatched rapidly and in large quantities. But that's
the nature of this type of movie and there are white villains too. The
director is of Iranian descent and does a terrific job.Well done - much better than "Olympus Has Fallen".

******
3 March 2016
8
***SPOILERS*** Before seeing this film, I wasn't sure weather this
movie would be good or not, and it was class.The film starts off with the assassination of the British Prime
minister, the film then follows two years later to the funeral of the
Prime Minister.Mike Banning played by Gerrard Butler discovers an organization
planning to assassinate every single World Leader. He has to protect
the President of the USA.This movie really grabbed me by surprise. The plot sets in about 20
minutes into the film. The CGI and explosions are presented
beautifully. Each actor including Gerrard Butler, Morgan Freeman who
plays the vice president of America were great as their characters.The only flaw in my opinion is some camera angles where a little shaky
and some scenes including slow motion wasn't smooth and flowing
consistent. Also, some background audio was overlapping the actors
voice and you couldn't hear them as much at times.Overall, this is a fantastic thriller of a film and the film was well
written and directed.

