******
27 November 2005
10
I am nearly fifty years old. A sober grown man. With children. Children
with whom I have now sat through hundreds of movies. Many of which I
have enjoyed. And I am not completely hardened in my sophistication.
The opening music to The Lion King brought tears to my eyes when my
little ones were but wee tots. But still, these are after all just
children's movies. In another life, I would never have seen them. And,
really, one can't take such movies too seriously, can one?And so, this summer, after the ritual badgering, I dutifully trudged
into yet another Disney "adventure" movie. Named after that tired old
ride in Anaheim I first went on in 1965. I mean really, how much can
you expect?And then, it happened. The swirling intoxication. The stunned feeling.
What? Who? How? Was this a movie? Or a religious experience? Perhaps
more like an addictive experience...I cannot remember ever willingly paying to see any movie not starring a
relative of mine more than twice, and I can count those movies on one
hand. I have now seen "Pirates" four times. The only thing keeping me
from seeing it again is the sense that this whole thing is just getting
out of hand. I cannot get enough of it. It's like walking into a
painting that you never want to come back out of. My children ask, with
a note of concern in their voices, "Dad, you really like Pirates of the
Caribbean a lot, don't you?"And that Depp fellow. My God. I never had any idea who he was, but his
name sounded like something created for a pubescent cover-boy for
magazines published to hook thirteen year-old girls on make-up and bad
music. Wasn't Depp the name of some hair-goo product back in the 60s?I am a straight male. I have several good friends who are gay, but have
never fantasized about any gender but the female. But now I understand
how women can experience swooning crushes on male film stars. He is
simply extraordinary. So sly, so seductive, so canny! I read an
interview in which Depp said he went through a slight depression when
he had to stop playing Captain Jack Sparrow. I can see why. His
inventiveness and sheer pleasure in inhabiting the character come
through in every frame. How can I admit to my children that I now troll
through fan websites about a former teen heart-throb?I often don't even watch the Academy Awards, and I certainly never have
any emotional investment in who wins.Except for this year.Go Jack.And, in a time when many big-budget movies are little more than a
hodge-podge of loosely- connected "money shots" this movie puts all the
pieces together, with a sense of fun and light-heartedness in special
effects that are simply dazzling. I find myself laughing with dizzy
appreciation when Barbossa barks out, "You'd best be believing in ghost
stories, Miss Turner, you're in one!" and the grinning skeletons come
into view, with Badelt's pounding score keeping time to the beat of
their maniacal deck-swabbing. And then there's the scene of the
pirate-ghouls slithering up from the darkened sea on the mooring cables
of the Dauntless, like infernal cats stalking their prey.And now to the music. I can just hear the effete aesthetes dismissing
this score, as Mr. Zimmerman anticipates with his winking "overproduced
by" credit on the cover-liner. "Bombastic." "Overdone." "Absurdly
Stupendous."Well, perhaps it is, for those who spend their lives evaluating such
things. To me, it is absolutely transporting. I first listened to it
while doing a work-out on a rowing machine and found that I tripled my
usual distance. It was like mainlining some hazardous tachycardic
amphetamine.Once again, the children were wondering, "What's up with Daddy? Is he
OK?"Perhaps I am just losing my grip, having an adolescent movie get to me
this way. But when those final credits roll, and Captain Jack narrows
his eyes and says, "Now, bring me that horizon. Drink up me hearties,
yo ho" and the music swells ... it is difficult to put into words the
effect it has.At this point my children have to yank me forcibly from the theater,
lest I persist in watching the credits to the bitter end, and bid
good-bye to the little monkey once more, wiping tears of exultation
from my eyes.This is not just another "entry" in the summer blockbust sweepstakes.
It is an exquisite work of fantasy and inventiveness, a true classic,
on the order of "The Wizard of Oz." I do hope Depp's performance
garners not just awards, but a place in the pantheon, something we old
fogies -- and our gently fogeying children decades hence -- will show
to our children and grandchildren like a revealed treasure. I cannot
recall any movie having such an effect on me.

******
4 September 2004
8

Although I had expectations ( from watching the trailers ) that this
might be a good movie, I was still surprised that it's as good as it
is. The story is actually more complex than I had expected, involving
cursed pirates and their quest to rid themselves of the curse. I won't
say more than that so as not to spoil it if you haven't seen it.There aren't as many action scenes as I had thought there would be in a
pirate movie, but the ones that are in the movie were very fun and
enjoyable. After seeing it, I think it had the right balance of action
and drama. There are also, of course, a lot of funny bits interspersed
between the action and drama. Some really good special effects also add
to the enjoyment of this movie.I wasn't much of a fan of Johnny Depp until I saw this movie. I think
he deserved to win the Academy Award for best actor. It's largely
because of his performance, IMO, that the movie was so good. Most of
the supporting cast did well, mind you, just that Johnny Depp stood
high above the rest. I did find Orlando Bloom's performance a bit
wooden, but other than that the acting was good.Basically, it's a really fun movie and I'd give it about 8 out of 10


******
29 September 2005
10
You will always remember this as the movie that made Johnny Depp a
superstar and almost got him an Oscar.The fact that he didn't win isn't
a problem,since thanks to him this is the best pirate film ever made.The opening concept is a clichè:a beautiful woman(Keira Knightley)is
kidnapped by a bunch of filthy pirates(led by Geoffrey Rush's
Barbossa)and the man(Orlando Bloom)who's desperately in love with her
decides to track them down.From now on,things get unexpected,as he asks
another pirate for help.And it's no ordinary pirate:it's Captain Jack
Sparrow(Johnny Depp),a lying,cheating,but charismatic scumbag,the
hardest man on Earth to predict,not to mention quite unlucky and
clumsy("You are,with no doubt,the worst pirate I've ever heard of" "But
you HAVE heard of me!").It's got all the elements of a classic pirate movie,elements that would
give this flick a 9/10.So,why am I giving it a 10/10? The answer is simple:Captain Jack.From
the moment he makes his entrance,justly included in the Empire Top 10
Entrances of all time,we know he's the reason people will keep watching
the movie.He 's Depp's best non-Tim Burton-character ever,and I can't
wait 'til he returns.See you next summer,Captain!

******
23 November 2003
8
 "Even I love Johnny Depp, and I'm male," a previous reviewer
declares,
tongue in cheek. Well, I wouldn't go quite that far, but there's
no
doubt whatsoever that when I lost my heart to this film, Johnny
Depp's
outrageous Cap'n Jack Sparrow had almost everything to do with it.
I
don't normally review 'current' films, so the very fact that
I'm
writing this highlights an almost unprecedented event - after
endless
failures, Hollywood has finally rediscovered the spirit of the
classic
swashbuckler movie.With hindsight, I think the one brilliant decision that was made
at
some point - given a modern production environment - was to
*separate
the roles* of hero and swashbuckler. You can then have your
worthy
Costner-type juvenile lead, as required, who has to Come To Terms
with
his Past (although his eventual fate is a trifle unexpected
in
conventional terms...) - *but* you can also have your essential
and
irrepressible swaggering rogue (of course, he totally steals the
film
from the moment he first appears, but *that's* no hardship!)The moonlight special effects were overdone, in my opinion - not
that
they aren't believable, but that they would have been more effective
if
used more sparingly, for occasional flashes of nastiness rather
than
solid minutes of battle. However, that's a minor niggle. The stunts
are
energetic, highly satisfactory, *not* computerised, and on
occasion
even carried out by the stars :-)The other saving grace of the production is its humour - not that
there
aren't a few over-arch knowing references, but on the whole it
manages
to send itself up without suspending disbelief in the process.
Jack
Sparrow's first arrival on the scene (with total aplomb aboard
a
steadily-sinking boat) is a prime example, as indeed are the
vast
majority of subsequent scenes involving this character...The basic Romance and Rescue structure is satisfactory enough, with
the
addition of the requisite Feisty Female for the 21st century (though
I
felt the character would have been a little more historically
plausible
if she had been a little less liberated - she clearly possesses
a
stronger character than her young man, she doesn't have to strive to
be
his physical equal as well...) However, it is the pirates
themselves
who really make the film, simply by being a pack of unreconstructed
and
uninhibited villains (from the Jeffrey Farnol School of
Historical
Dialect) who are far larger than life and totally unselfconscious
about
it. To quote the opening words of the 'Guardian' review: "we have
been
waiting [50 years] for a modern pirate film featuring someone who,
in
all seriousness, actually says the words, or perhaps the
two-syllable
single word: 'Ah-harrrrr!'"Jack Sparrow, as swashbuckler extraordinaire and consummate rogue
(of
course, totally honest in his own way... ahem) is the main
attraction
of the entire film. Not so much loopy as totally round the bend
-
outrageous and unpredictable (there is a running gag throughout
the
first part of the film where he is repeatedly described as "the
worst
pirate I've ever seen", as in "the worst at it", only for
the
preposterous tactics in question to prove spectacularly
successful).This character saves the hero in more ways than one - without him,
the
film would be another "Mask of Zorro", a rather stodgy attempt
to
update an old favourite for modern-day sensibilities and
compensate
with more and flashier sword-fighting (swashbuckling is not
*about*
fighting! It comes into it, yes, but it's not the point.) But
together,
the pair work off one another beautifully - reliability and
inspired
lunacy, self-doubt and cocky flamboyance, dogged devotion and
shameless
self-interest. The only question is which, precisely, is the
sidekick...There are two beginnings to this film, neither of them bearing
any
relation to the wooden costume-drama-by-numbers prologue that
actually
opens the movie. The moment when events start to move (it
could
scarcely be less subtle) is signalled by the swell of the theme
music
for the first time at Sparrow's initial appearance. But for me
the
moment when the film really took off was in that instant during
his
first escape, when he seizes the rope and swings up, up, and out, in
a
classic swashbuckler move from the past that brought it all
flooding
back... and my heart flew up after him into my throat, and
remained
enjoyably in that position until the end of the movie, when
the
audience began spontaneously to applaud.The film is far from perfect - characters like Captain
Norrington
(*please* - 'Commodore', like 'Prime Minister', is a job
description,
not a form of address!) and the Governor are little more than
pantomime
stereotypes, with only frustrating hints of humanity to indicate
that
they do after all have potential denied them by the script.
Annoying
anachronisms slip in - "it's okay", "I was rooting for you" - most
of
the nautical jargon comes out with about as much sign of
comprehension
as a phonetic rendition of a foreign language, and Sparrow's
one
precious charge of powder gets soaked through often enough in
the
course of the plot to be utterly useless by the end. Both hero
and
heroine come across as wooden and thankless roles. Orlando Bloom may
be
costumed to look increasingly like Errol Flynn during the course of
the
film (was it my imagination, or does he spend it gradually
cultivating
a duplicate of that famous moustache?), but, alas, any resemblance
ends
there.But then it doesn't really matter. It is Depp, not Bloom, who
has
inherited the mantle of Flynn and Fairbanks in this film. Jack
Sparrow
was the character who caught my imagination - and, since I'm
extremely
impressionable, also had a distinctly peculiar effect on the way
I
stood and walked for several hours later. And there's not many
films
can say *that*..! ÿ

******
24 April 2004
10
When the daughter of the governor of a Caribbean island, Elizabeth
Swann (Keira Knightley), is proposed by Commodore Norrington (Jack
Davenport), she faints, fells into the sea and is rescued and saved by
the pirate Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) but he is arrested and
sentenced to death for piracy. Meanwhile, the town is attacked by the
ship Black Pearl, commanded by the former first mate Barbossa (Geoffrey
Rush), who leaded a mutiny against Captain Jack Sparrow years ago.
Barbossa kidnaps Elizabeth, and the blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom), who loves her, releases Jack Sparrow and they steal the fastest
vessel of the navy to follow the Black Pearl, Will trying to save
Elizabeth, and Jack trying to retrieve his ship. Along their journey,
many secrets are disclosed about the course of the Black Pearl and her
crew.The supernatural adventures of Captain Jack Sparrow, Elizabeth Swann,
Will Turner and Barbossa are so spectacular that really deserves to be
included among the best movies (Top 250) in IMDb. This film has action,
humor, romance, mystery, special effects and is so delightful that the
viewer does not feel the running time of 143 minutes. I saw this movie
for the first time on 24 April 2004, and I have just watched again
today (10 Feb 2007) enjoying the same way as in the first time. My vote
is ten.Title (Brazil): "Piratas do Caribe  A Maldição do Pérola Negra"
("Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl")

******
20 October 2003
10

---Mild Spoilers---This is my all time favorite after 30+ years of movie going.  I've viewed
it
many times and was happy to see it surpass the $300 million
mark!I just love the fact that everyone involved in this movie seemed to be
h***-bent on entertaining us.  Not to make us cry, not to make us think
deeply, not to manipulate our feelings.  Just good, old-fashioned
entertainment with no profanity or nudity necessary.  I'm glad such times
are back.The cast was simply fantastic and they generously let the fun they were
clearly having rub off on us.  But they did not let this cause them to
sacrifice one iota of dedication to their performances.  Jack Davenport,
Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, and outrageously talented Johnny Depp just
swept us away.  (I also can't neglect to mention Damian O'Hare, who had
the
small role as Lt. Gilette.  Watch his facial expressions throughout the
movie; he was just the perfect British prig, and I hope we see more of him
in the future.)  Relative rookie Kiera Knightley:  not bad given her age;
but she is much better in the scenes where she is angry than when she's
Will-ting.I think that Davenport, Rush and Depp all delivered reasonably complex
characters despite the superficial story line.  Norrington is ambitious
but
also has a strong compassionate streak.  Barbossa's integrity is his
evilness, yet we can also see his weaknesses and humanity.  Sparrow is
like
that friend we all have who is a bad boy but would do anything for you in
the end, along with the many other traits Depp built into this character.
Depp, by far, is the one who jumped off the screen and grabbed you and
pulled you into the show.  It's hard to say more, the guy is just
astonishingly freakin' talented.I think that there were some nice themes in this movie.  I especially
liked
the ending, given that Jack Sparrow spent a good deal of the movie in
handcuffs, in jail, in the brig, walking the plank, stranded on an island,
with guns pointed at him, on the gallows, etc.  Combine all of that with
his
confession to Elizabeth (on the Island) of what the Black Pearl really is.
Did we get set up to love that ending or what?  I also like that the movie
started and ended on the same song, and that Elizabeth at the beginning
held
the key to Jack's situation at the ending.The scenes with Jack and Barbossa in them together were by far the best.
It
takes until about halfway through the movie until we get them face to
face.
Their exchange at the plank-walking was priceless, as was the "parle" on
board the Pearl.  But that sword fight in the cave took all!  It's new and
it's classic all at once and it just feels like what pirate-movie-making
should be all about.Speaking of pirates, I loved their scenes too, especially the "gents, take
a
walk" scene.  I also loved the sly way that Mr. Cotton's parrot snuck in
all
of the pirate cliches that were just too cliche to work into the dialogue.
Clever!Even if you don't like the story, just sit back and watch the
scenery/great
use of color and listen to the music.  Nothing was left to chance in
putting
together a great visual and audio experience for us, and there is
something
for everyone here.  I've seen many fun, witty, adventure and other movies.
But this one is just above all in my book because it is having fun and
entertains you up and down in the process.  There are many reasons, I
suppose, that people go to movies, but entertaining is really what they
are
for, and this film delivers in spades.It is no wonder all of the main cast signed up for the sequel/prequel
(whatever it is).  I, for one, can't wait!10/10

******
22 October 2007
10
Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is not y/our typical Errol Flynn
type of machismo, swashbuckling pirate; nor does he play another Disney
Captain Hook. He's more like Fagan in "Oliver." Capt. Sparrow's ever so
fey. That's his charm.Though the pirates on the "Black Pearl" ship are dead & sometimes in
their skeleton form they aren't scary enough for kids since this is a
comedy.The story line goes as follows: A governor's daughter is in charge of a
young boy her own age who has been pulled out of the sea by her
father's bourgeoisie crew. She notices his necklace is a pirate's &
takes it from him to protect him from being hung to death.But, the golden medallion is the last 1 of a pirate's treasure that has
cursed the "Black Pearl" ship's crew. Without its return, with the
blood of the boy on it, the skeletal crew remains dead, unable to feel
any life in themselves; they are also not killable since they are
already dead.Capt. Sparrow (Depp), though a bumbling comical pirate who's bent upon
owning the "Black Pearl," the ship the cursed crew stole from him,
plays a marvelously lovable & lucky pirate who is the super glue that
holds together the loose ends of the movie. Depp gives his cutest
performance I've seen; he's now my favorite pirate! The script is
clever; cinematography is fine; special effects are spot-on.

******
13 October 2004
10
This movie is a must fo anyone's collection. It's clean, exciting and
fun to watch. It gave me a whole new view on piracy. I mean every
pirate in movies and plays before this either had a parrot, a peg-leg
or an eye-patch. Pirates of the Caribbean doesn't have any of those
stereotypes. Depp plays his role brilliantly, there is not a dull
moment when he's on screen and Bloom portrayed the love-sick blacksmith
perfectly as well. Knightley's role was a bit modern(strong,
take-charge feminist), but that also added to the movie, she was great.
I could go on about the actors, but there wouldn't be any more room,
they were marvelous! This movie is mysterious, every single time I
watch it, I can barely pull myself away from the screen! THis is
without a doubt, the best movie I've seen yet.(A)

******
2 August 2004
10

Having always been interested in pirates, curses, and adventures (when
it comes to movie entertainment) this movie appealed to me the first
time I saw a preview for it. I've watched this movie at least a dozen
times and I still can't get over how amazingly well Johnny Depp fits
the part of Captain Sparrow. His gestures, facial expressions, and his
script make this movie not far from a masterpiece. Honestly it took me
2 or 3 times to completely understand the plot and all the dimensions
of the curse. However, watching all the extra scenes and info on the
DVD made me realize how much fun the director had making the movie
(when was the last time you saw a pirate movie that cool??) Again, I
greatly applaud Johnny Depp's performance and I can't wait to see
Pirates of the Caribbean 2!


******
5 December 2013
10
There are two few action-adventure movies now a days that delivers such
original characters, played by a truly incredible cast. When I first
saw The Curse of the Black Pearl as a boy I was fascinated. There where
Pirates, cannons, sword fights, treasures funny monkey's and a
beautiful girl, What more could you possibly ask for. I can still remember when I saw Jack Sparrow for the first time. He may
not of had the typical "hero" qualities that would see in somebody like
say William Turner, but that is what made jack so undeniably brilliant,
he wasn't somebody we have experienced before. He was a witty, drunk,
Sword fighting Pirate, with a flare for the dramatic. Seen for the
first time in possibly the greatest hero entranced ever made. I glanced
my stunned eye's at the screen to behold the one they called Jack
Sparrow, or should I say "Captain" Jack Sparrow. There he stood in all
his glory, the anthem soundtrack blared as he stood on top of his
wooden sinking ship, or boat... As he floats by the pirate outlaws hung
by there necks, with a sign on them that states "pirates Ye Be Warned"
he stops bailing his sinking boat in time to offer a kind salute, to
his fellow dead pirates.Its not long in till we are swept away by a amazing story of a two men
desperately trying to find the loves of there life. One a Pirate after
his stolen ship, and the other, a working hard blacksmith boy, trying
to find his true love. Luckily for them, both loves have been taken by
the "crew of the dammed". Barbossa, the fearless pirate with a pet
monkey, yes a pet monkey. It soon becomes apparent that everyone in the
story wants something, and they will screw and back-stab anyone who
gets in there way, honestly this film there are know such thing as true
friends, everyone will become an enemy in time.After years of watching this film, it still reveals itself as nothing
more but a great adventure movie, just plain fun. So why not give it
ten out of ten. There is everything you want in an adventure movie,
girls, fights and a little magic and mystery. Not to mention some of
the best 1-liners you will ever hear, "you best start believing in
ghost stories miss turner, you're in one", and my personal favourite,
the very last line in the film, as Jack prepares to embark on more of
his adventures he quotes "bring me that horizon" as the ship sales off
into the sunset.

******
29 May 2004
10

I did not originally see the movie in the theater but rented it when it
came out on video and loved it. I have eventually bought it and have
watched it so many times I have lost count. I thought Johnny Depp's
performance was really good and you couldn't help but love him. I also
liked that the movie didn't have a lot of gore and sex in it but still
kept the viewer captivated. As for T. Robertson's comment on Captain
Sparrow having been under the curse too the whole time-he was not. Jack
only came under the curse after having slipped a coin out of the chest
after Will had been captured (You have to watch closely). That in
itself was rather clever on Sparrow's part since you can't do battle
with an immortal pirate and win if you are mortal. :-)This one
definitely ranks in my top ten favorite movies. I hope they make
another one.


******
22 May 2004
10

Pirates of the caribbean is not only an action, but funny and a bit of
horror too, EVERYONE who i have asked if they like it have said yes,
its a film that almost everybody likes, no matter what age or genre
they like.It stars Johnny Depp is the fearless pirate Jack Sparrow, Orlando Bloom
is the young Blacksmith and Keria Knightly is the governors daughter.
This is one of Johnny Depps best films, and he really makes the film
what it is!!The graphics were above average and the story line is not boring what
so ever, everyone is entertained.I have to say i cant wait for the next one to come out.


******
14 May 2004
10

It really does steal the screen!This is, without doubt, my favourite movie of all time. It was brilliantly
written, performed, filmed, and put together. I cannot work out the
mystery
of why critics gave it such bad reviews. The special effects were
excellent,
as well.I was very choked that it did not get a single Oscar award. I especially
couldn't believe that Return of the King got best Makeup over it. I saw NO
makeup in that (the Orcs were people wearing masks), and then in Pirates,
in
come Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) in
spectacular
makeup. I certainly think that Johnny should have gotten "Best Actor" for
Jack Sparrow rather than Sean Penn.A great movie for all pirate lovers out there, and well - any movie lover
out there.

******
6 May 2004
10

OK, so everything that I could say has all been said in the other reviews
already, but I can't stress just how enjoyable this film is. It's a wild
ride that keeps you laughing and thrilled from beginning to end. Johnny
Depp
is incredibly funny and incredibly sexy, and since potc I have become a JD
addict, which is costing me a fortune on Ebay. The special effects are
perfect - the pirates are very funny and not overdone at all. It is fun
for
all the family, and I can't think of anybody who isn't a complete kill
joy,
who wouldn't enjoy this film. It's always worth a watch when you need
cheering up. I have seen it around 9 or 10 times and there will be more.
Can't wait for the sequel, and praying that they can secure Johnny for
part
3 too. 

******
10 July 2003
9

Pirates of the Caribbean is a well-written, well-made, and well-acted film. 
Do not expect a simple action film; it is humourous and creepy, fascinating
and thrilling.  Like most films, there are a couple of holes here and there
in the fabric of the story; but this film wasn't made for the Oscars, it's
meant to entertain and it succeeds in full at that.  It's a jolly good time
with some good actors (and great Academy Award Winner Geoffrey Rush) and
high adventure on the high seas.  Not to be missed!

******
7 May 2005
10
This movie tops them all with AMAZING direction, AMAZING moods, AMAZING
music and mostly AMAZING OF ALL AMAZINGS... acting! I have the biggest
passion for Johnny Depp and thought this was the most hilarious role to
have him play. He did it flawlessly! and he's so hot! Just an added
bonus. Orlando Bloom was probably at his best in this movie as well,
and because i don't really like him at all, that is definitely a huge
compliment to say the least. And if all i told you about this movie is
that it was produced by Jerry Bruckhiemer, then you would automatically
know it is something worth watching. From The Amazing Race, to CSI,
Jerry Bruckhiemer produces everything worth watching. And don't get me
started on the flawlessly beautifully talented Keira Knightly. She is
beautiful, has the cutest accent and is extremely talented! Honestly,
if you didn't like this movie you have got to have something seriously
wrong with you - it's a classic to be remembered for the rest of time!

******
2 May 2005
10
This film is absolutely mind-blowing!I watched it the first time and
was very impressed with Johnny Depps performance as Captain Jack
Sparrow.He really put his effort into this film and suited the part
very well.I was also impressed with Keira Knightleys performance as
Elizebeth Swann she too suited the part very well.I am very glad that
Pirates of the Caribbean 2 is coming out next year!!!!I think that the
beginning was fantastic and introduced the characters well.The
storyline as a whole was very impressive.This film is fun of
laughter,romance,action and a lot of drama!This is a film you have got
to watch!!!

******
30 April 2005
10
This movie works so well on a variety of levels. Despite being so
outlandish, Depp's pirate is clever, creative and believable ... except
that he doesn't seem like he'd ever be able to back down a crew of
pirates; to wit, his crew abandoned him on a desert island. That he
could come back over and and over would create respect in many and,
sometimes, those who seem craziest are most feared, so perhaps he could
do it.Verbinski knows what he's doing but I wish so much of the movie hadn't
rested on Depp's shoulders. That being said, it still works beautifully
and Depp's acting is spot on. I guess it comes down to this: When
you're watching the movie it can be totally absorbing and any
criticisms spring to mind only when the lights are up and I've moved on
to other things. I've seen the movie several times and get sucked in
every time. If I were to judge a movie only by my thoughts after it's
over, that wouldn't be fair. I believe you have to judge a movie mostly
by what's on your mind during it and give much less criticism after
wards. The movie IS the moment, not the trip home.

******
27 April 2005
10
I thought that this movie was the best!!! I thought it was the best
movie because it has Johnny Depp in it!!! :p Boy is he
hot!!:D:D:D:P:P:P I think that anyone who sees this movie has got to
agree that it is one of the best movies ever!! I hope they make another
move!!! I wonder if there will be as much suspense in the next two
movies as in the first movie?? I hope to watch this movie again and
again because it is the best movie in the world!! I just have to watch
any movie with Johnny Depp in it cause he's the best actor in the
world!! Why don't you go out and get it and see for yourself that is is
an awesome movie!!

******
19 April 2005
10
I think that this is one of the best movies that i have ever seen. I
own it on DVD and watch it every time that i get the chance. I can not
wait for the next one. Hopefully it is as good as the first, but i have
no doubts. Johnny Depp is a great actor and he plays the part of Jack
Sparrow well. Orlando Bloom is great too. I think that all the actors
played a big part in making the movie and they put it all together and
made it come to life. Thanks to everyone involved!! The next one sounds
really good and as soon as it comes out i am going to gather up all of
my friends and we are going to go see it in theater. It is going to be
really fun and i hope that it comes out soon because i can't wait.

******
9 September 2004
10

Magnificent! I will start off with the one problem so that I can end by
thrashing it with compliments: Too long. If they had just cut out all
the crap in the scenes which made this movie so long it would've gotten
a perfect 10 from me (I gave it a 9). But anyway, no movie is perfect.
To the compliments, Jack Sparrows (Johnny Depp) was out of this world.
His performance was just outstanding. No one in my opinion could have
done the role better and I could probably find a better person for the
role of just about every main role in a movie except this one. The way
he says things are the kind of jokes that make you laugh in your head
and think about what and outstanding movie it is without laughing out
loud. It's like when you go a movie with someone and you don't hear
them laugh once but when they come out they say it was the funniest
movie they've ever seen it's because the jokes are the kind that if you
laugh out loud you're going to sound crazy. That's what all comedies
look for and this one got it right with Johnny Depp.


******
27 July 2004
10

When the "Pirates of the Caribbean" was released, I was really looking
forward to watching this movie. However, I finally managed to watch it
many months later and I LOVED it!It's a breath-taking movie, with an interesting plot and great
performances from the actors. Although the movie is a little bit long,
nobody can get bored while watching it. What I liked most -and I think
most people liked- is Johnny Depp's performance. He was GREAT, he
perfectly played the role of Jack Sparrow and whenever he appeared, he
was "breaking" the "gravity" that prevailed in the movie and turned
everything more pleasant and funny, by reminding us that he's a really
great actor, something he has already proved many times so far.Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley were also very good and proved that
they are two talented actors. However, they are still quite young and I
personally think that their performances seemed rather indifferent,
comparing to Geoffrey Rush's and Johnny Depp's.To sum up: I found this a great movie and anyone who hasn't watched it
yet, he should definitely buy the DVD!Finally: Many people say it's a good movie, while others disagree.
However, there is one point that nobody can doubt: Even if you are not
a fan of such movies, it's worth watching just for Johnny Depp!


******
16 July 2004
10

A movie that was suppose to have Orlando as lead, is taken by my
beloved Johnny Depp. I have been a fan of his since I can't even
remember how far back. I not only drool over him, his talent is true
and original. How many sexy males do you know that would or could pull
off a very believable rendition of a punk-rock pirate named Jack
Sparrow. The plot is almost perfectly mending to all genre's and pulls
anyone in by its diverse levels of movie goers. If you like action,
comedy, and anything with Johnny Depp, this is the one to see. I
recommend other Johnny Depp movies, and that you keep watch on Keira
Knightly, and Orlando Bloom for other upcoming movies to see that they
are savvy actors and actresses.


******
13 July 2004
10

Wow. Originally I thought this movie wouldn't be so great, but after I
saw it, I realized how stupid I had been. This movie is fantastic. It's
Romantic, funny, a little scary, historical, and, of course, action
packed. Is there any genre this movie ISN'T? The plot and characters
are well-developed, and It's the kind of movie that you just want to
see over and over again. And, it seems to get better every time I see
it (approximately 10 times)! The only flaw is the fact that if
bootstrap bill had in fact taken a piece of gold (which we know he did;
he sent it to Will) then he would have been affected by the curse.
And..If he was affected by the curse, he would be immortal. So...How
did launching him off a cannon into the ocean kill him? I guess that's
why there's a "Pirates of the Caribbean 2"... I can't wait. As Captain
Jack Sparrow might say, "Go see this movie. Savvy?"


******
11 July 2004
10

What can i say?, its a brilliant movie. Casting is just right,
especially with the fantastic Mr.Depp, he outshone everyone, and also
gave the movie its humour, The story line was very original, and an
ended most people wouldn't of expected. The special effects were very
well done, especially the pirates turning into Skeletons, and looked
very scary at parts.Jeffery Rush, also acted brilliantly with his part as the evil captain
Barbossa, and orlando bloom as the young man, falling n love and what
he would do for love. All i can say is i cant wait for the next movie
and i bet it will be even better then the first.


******
6 July 2004
10

I have probably seen this movie 15 times. I love movies and I am
terribly critical of them. When I read the goofs page on this movie, I
was shocked to see how many there were. IT is not good that the editors
let so many slide. But, as a whole, this is a great mindless movie. I
read a review by another user that said a good movie is one that raises
important issues and questions; I agree. But, there can be other kinds
of good movies. This is one! Watch it with an empty mind needing
entertainment and the willingness to pass off goofs by saying "it is a
movie" and you will find great satisfaction in Pirates. All in all, I
would call this a new classic because it appeals to the masses who
generally care nothing for "great art films".


******
28 June 2004
10

Johnny Depp, in my humble opinion, has been ignored far too long by
Tinseltown. His acting in this film was truly gifted and inspired. If you
have not seen this movie, please do so.
Mr. Depp is able to completely submerge in whatever character he plays and
he does so amazingly in his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow. A pirate with
a heart of gold!
Oh, the movie is great, too! Orlando Bloom is fantastic and the special
effects are quite phenomenal.
I cannot believe that the Disney Studies actually produces this film so
perhaps there is still hope for them after Eisner.


******
23 June 2004
10

Movie was awesome!!Johnny Depp can play any character he's a well
rounded actor, one of the best in the business (I feel). He's not to
bad on the eyes either:). I'm so excited he's going to be in the 2nd
movie, I feel that if they had chosen some one else to play Cpt. Jack
Sparrow, Will Turner or Elizabeth Swan, it really would have not made
sense. I saw the movie 6 times mainly for the actors and the plot it
was very interesting and well thought out. Many people said it was too
long, I believe it was perfect it kept getting interesting just as you
thought Jack was going to be hung Will's to the rescue and then you
think Jack and Will are caught and will go to jail Elizabeth is there.
Best movie Gore is going to have trouble making the second look good as
the first, hopefully it will come close. Music for the movie was great
too.


******
21 June 2004
10

Well, to sum it all up this is my FAVORITE movie of all time.It appeals to a wide range of people from kids to adults it has
something for everyone. It never speaks down to its audience and the
script is pure genius. The characters are so well developed that you
feel that you have known them all your life.Johnny Depp however, is the pride of this film. He shines through as
the mischievous, and mysterious, Captain Jack Sparrow. His acting
skills are amazing as he creates a character that is surely the most
memorable pirate to ever sail the Spanish Main.It is BRILLIANT, the movie never slows, never bores its audience. I am
sure you can now see why this is my favorite movie.


******
19 June 2004
10

This is a definite Two Thumbs Up! for Disney! A great movie filled with
swashbuckling adventure, beautiful scenery, and the best of the best --
Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom! The chemistry between the two of them
was a beautiful thing to see! I bought it on DVD and have almost worn
the disc out, enjoying every second over and over again. I am
definitely looking forward to their second one and hope it will be out
soon! Even the female, Kiera, was good, though we all could have done
without the Will/Elizabeth romance at the end! About the only bad
things in the story were the bad pirates and the lack of Will sailing
away into the sunset with Sparrow on their ship! These two fine actors
deserve a pat on the back and more like about a thousand stars for
making their characters likable, enduring, and leaving a taste on your
tongue for wanting more! I highly recommend it for all family members!
Once seen, this movie will stay with a fond place in your heart
forever!


******
12 June 2004
10

I saw this movie and I thought it was excellent. Admittedly, I
originally was only going to see it for Orlando Bloom, but I ended up
loving the film as a whole. The actors are excellent in their
individual roles and all worked very well together. Johnny Depp was
hilarious and portrayed a unique and lovable pirate. Geoffrey Rush
played an excellent adversary who was both sinister and entertaining.
Orlando Bloom played his part of a devoted lover wonderfully despite
many people's opinions that he was weak and too lovey-dovey. The plot
was interesting and captivating, and although I found a loophole, I
think it was purposeful as they are making a sequel. Wonderful special
effects and sets helped to make this movie excellent. Wonderful
direction from Gore Verbinski held this movie together and an awesome
score by Klaus Badelt accompanied the entire movie very well. Overall,
I thought it was an excellently made movie that was fun for all ages.


******
7 June 2004
10

This is one of the best pirate movies you will see in a long while.
That is until they make the sequel. Pirates of the Caribbean, is an
action adventure film with a great cast and a wonderful story line. It
starts in Port Royal, Jamaica. Where Elizabeth Swann, the governor's
daughter gets kidnapped by a crew of cursed pirates. Right before the
kidnapping a pirate by the name of Jack Sparrow comes into town looking
to commandeer a ship. Sparrow agrees to team up with Elizabeth's
childhood friend Will Turner in search of Elizabeth. But what Will does
not know is that Jack is linked to the kidnapping and the cursed
pirates in more ways than one. To find out the rest, see the movie! A
must see for all adventure lovers and Johnny Depp fans of course! Take
my word, a great movie. My rating is an A!.


******
10 July 2003
10

The film was filled with extreme comedy and great action scenes.  Much of
Depp's acting was reminiscent of his work in Fear and Loathing, but it was
hillarious and well worth the nine dollars.  The action scenes were packed
with entertainment, and were very frequent.  
All ages can enjoy this movie, and most likely will.  If you have the
ability to get to a theatre, go to one, and see this movie.

******
10 July 2003
10

This was the best movie of the summer!!!!  It had me laughing a lot and
Orlando Bloom looks really good!!!  Johnny Depp uniquely portrays Captain
Jack Sparrow and it's so much fun for everyone!!! Don't wait another
second
go and see it right now!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
15 May 2005
10
Gore Verbinski follows up The Ring with this incredible family film.
Johnny Depp turns in another incredible performance that should get a
laugh out of everyone. This is the type of incredible family
adventure/comedy that should be a favorite of the youth in this
generation as The Princess Bride was for those before it. Both movies
give you that good feeling and have that quality where you never get
sick of watching it and hearing the lines over and over. This is a film
that everyone should see a couple of times, just to enjoy the pure fun
it has to offer. The great film was a surprise to me, since I knew it
was based off of a Disney ride and I thought it was going to be a film
for kids, but it is definitely something that can be enjoyed by people
of all ages. Captain Jack Sparrow is the pathetic yet savvy and smooth
pirate that you can't help rooting for. Orlando Bloom is the one actor
I don't particularly care for in any movie, but he doesn't bother me in
this one. Geoffry Rush is cast perfectly and the special effects are
nice. If you haven't seen this great film yet, go out and rent it or
buy the DVD which is loaded with extras that will keep you happy.

******
1 May 2005
10
Before this film i had never heard of Johnny Depp, Keira Knightly or
Geoffery Rush but i had heard of Orlando Bloom. I had never even seen
the trailer to 'Pirates of the Caribbean'! My sister first saw the film
and told me so much about it and told me that I really should go and
see it with her... I kept on saying no because it just didn't appeal to
me. I then spoke to other people about it who said it was great so i
finally decided to go and see it. From start to finish i was taken on a
swashbuckling adventure! It had everything that a movie should have...
love, comedy, adventure, a kidnapping and cursed pirates after
treasure. The film was mainly carried by the fantastic Johnny Depp...
playing the slightly drunk Captain Jack Sparrow who's main mission in
the film is to get back his ship 'the Black Pearl'. However, he ends up
taking on board Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) a blacksmith who is in love
with the Governers daughter Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightly). Elizabeth
is kidnapped by Pirates and it is up to Jack and Will to save her.
However the Pirates are cursed and are neither living nor dead...they
must repay their blood otherwise they will be cursed forever. So as you
can see there is a lot to go by on the film. Can Jack Sparrow be
trusted? Will they reach Elizabeth before it is too late? Will the
pirates ever be rid of the dreaded curse? Watch this film as it is
perfect for anyone! This film is one of the best epics every made!
Watch it...you will not be disappointed!

******
1 February 2005
10
I was a huge fan of The Pirates of the Caribbean long before the movie,
so I was very nervous--would the movie do justice to the attraction? Or
would it be another stinky pirate movie? The first time I saw it,
though, I knew it would be a hit. The casting was perfect, the music
spectacular, the special effects astounding, the story intriguing--this
was as close to a perfect movie as I have seen in a long time. It's
great fun, making you laugh, gasp, hold your breath, cheer, and sigh,
and it appeals to all ages--I even heard grandmothers commenting on how
adorable Johnny Depp was! It's not surprising that we've seen more of
Keira Knightly, who gave quite a twist to the "damsel in distress"
role. Orlando Bloom was a pleasure to look at, but his character was
the only "cardboard" one of the lot. He did OK, and at times was great,
but overall he was just overshadowed by Captain Jack, whereas the other
characters seemed to hold their own. Maybe he was tired from fighting
trolls (Lord of the Rings)? I've seen the movie a good two dozen times
now, and it just never gets old, mostly thanks to Depp, who so deserved
the Oscar for his performance. Maybe he'll manage it with one of the
two sequels. Even if he doesn't, though, this will be one of his best
roles ever, and it's truly a movie that everyone involved can be proud
of.

******
30 August 2015
5
Pirates of the Caribbean are without a doubt one of the best movie
series of all time, but as it happens, The Curse of the Black Pearl is
the worst one of these movie series.The jokes are lame, Jack's mimicry not even funny. Elizabeth and Will
make a boring couple and there is no chemistry between Keira and
Orlando.The story is boring, confusing, twisting into such incomprehensible
storyline and dumb scenes, that if you won't sleep yourself to death,
then thumb up.But why did I bother to watch the sequels, when this one I didn't like?
Because I happened to watch the sequels first and loved the story of
The Dead Man's Chest and the sequel of its storyline in the third movie
At World'd End. I completely got into the story without even watching
the first one, so it seems.Meant as introduction this Curse of the Black Pearl is, but there is no
introduction at all. You can well meet the characters in the sequels
and don't need to be sorry for skipping this one.Barbossa as the main villain is lame, old, boring and inexpressive,
nothing compared what is to come next. He doesn't even have his own
soundtrack song, and well, speaking of the OST, there isn't much to say
either. I promise, watching the sequels will make you laugh at sophisticated
jokes and hold your breath when the REAL enemy comes.This Curse of the Black Pearl is nothing more than a fairytale for
10-year-old boys. The only reason why I've given it 5 stars are for the respect I keep
for its two younger brothers.

******
10 April 2015
2
Basically this film has completely copied the famous 1990 computer game
monkey island. In which the governors daughter is kidnapped by an
undead pirate ghost and you have to rescue her. It even copies ideas
like being stranded on an island and going crazy (like how herman
toothrot was stranded on monkey island for so long and went mad). The
idea of finding a ship and a crew. And it copies other things like not
only it being set in the caribbean and having a voodoo lady, but the
actual set and having to row through a swamp to get to the voodoo
lady's shack, pirate towns made of broken ships and so many things just
completely lifted from the game and lazily put into the film. The main
villain of Pirates of the Caribbean also looks identical to the villain
in Monkey Island. If you search for this on google, youtube, or
anything, you can see how pirates of the caribbean just completely
ripped off this game and is a really uninspired unoriginal film. The
thing I did like about the film is probably Johnny Depp who seemed to
play an alright quirky, silly pirate.

******
13 March 2014
5
I don't go to the theater too often. A film really has to light my fire
to get me to actually go out and see it. Well, "Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" got me interested enough to go
see it when it was released in the summer of 2003. Why was I so
interested? Probably because I occasionally enjoy fun adventure films
in the manner of "Raiders of the Lost Ark" (1981) or "The Mummy"
(1999). "Black Pearl" is a film of this ilk.WHAT WORKS: The film looks and sounds great, which includes the actors,
costuming, cinematography, locations and score. Johnny Depp as pirate
Capt. Jack Sparrow is a notable character; Sparrow comes off as a young
Keith Richards gone Pirate. Keira Knightley is beautiful as Elizabeth
Swann; and Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom & Lee Arenberg are all fabulous
in their roles.WHAT DOESN'T WORK: When I first saw it in 2003 the film struck me as
too long for such lightweight fare (2 hours and 23 minutes). It also
struck me as boring and forgettable for some reason. I decided to see
it again recently and came away feeling the exact same way. What makes
it boring and forgettable? I don't know, it's hard to pinpoint. Maybe
because it's too drawn-out; light film fare like this works best at
around 80-95 minutes. Maybe it's because many of the characters are
unable to die because of the curse, which naturally creates a lack of
suspense. Mostly it's because the story and characters, although fun,
are absurd and superficial. Also, I suppose it's too much to expect to
glean some morsel of depth or truth from a film like this.CONCLUSION: "Black Pearl" is a fun, goofy pirate adventure; it's okay
but far from great like, say, "Raiders of the Lost Ark" or even the
1999 version of "The Mummy." It's overlong, overly light, kinda boring
and ultimately forgettable. I know I'm in the minority here, but I'm
not a fan and can't recommend it, except maybe to kids. But if it trips
your trigger that's great.GRADE: C+

******
1 December 2006
5
Pirates of the Caribbean is a huge movie. However, quite a
disappointment. Pirates starts off right. The first appearance of Jack
sparrow is quite funny and effective. Johnny Depp is wonderful as
Sparrow. His performance is top notch as the dubious and ragged pirate.
The story is unconvincing. I truly never understood the curse at all.Pirates does have some excellent sword combat. We see one between
Sparrow and Turner(Orlando bloom)does quite well. The dialog here is
mostly lame. It would have been better with good dialog or if these two
just fought without saying a word. Some later combat is just lame. Your
opponent is a undead monster that can't be stopped by your sword. If
the two were living, then the combat would be much more satisfying. The
sword combat does suffer from being repetitive as well.Johnny Depp aside, the acting here is okay. Nothing breathtaking. Keira
Knightly is great eye candy, but seems like wasted talent here. Orlando
Bloom is not bad, just over-acts his role. Keep it simple kid. There
are many others but the only other one worth mentioning is Geoffory
Rush. He has one line in this movie that is just juicy. Every time I
hear it, it just rules.The Special FX are amazing. Convoluted story aside, the skeletal
pirates are dazzling to just look at. Never has the undead looked this
good. Most of the comedy does not work well here. There are exceptions
to that though. Example, Jack Sparrow, no matter the situation always
gets annoyed when he is not referred to as "Captian". Another is The
Black Pearl is getting damaged during a sea battle and during all the
danger, Jack shouts out: "Stop putting holes in my ship!". Depp is good
like I say.Pirates also suffers from overstaying it's welcome. It's just too long
of a movie. Also, one sequence of scenes that should have been
immediately sent to the cutting room floor are the scenes with the
Govener dealing with a severed hand. Useless and plain annoying. I did
not much care for the pirate with the fake eye either.The Last Word: Pirates, not a terrible movie is not engaging enough
either. There are some high marks and lows. To many characters and a
difficult story. Depp is the best. Jack Sparrow is very likable.
Pirates just could have been a much better movie. **1/2/*****

******
30 November 2006
5
This big budget swashbuckler reinstated Hollywood's interest in
pirates, reaffirmed Johhny Depp as a bankable mainstream leading man,
and refocused the industry with it's surprisingly high box office
performance, followed by an even more surprising (though widely
regarded as inferior) net gain from it's sequel. So why did I not have
half the fun as I was anticipating with The Curse of the Black Pearl?
Despite having all the key ingredients at making this rousing adventure
come to life, Pirates still flounders with a repetitious script, an
overkill of production, and of course the general disengaged,
auto-piloted mentality that one immediately associates with any massive
studio release. Yes, Depp's inspired take as the woozy captain Jack
Sparrow does breathe some fresh air into the stale script, though his
acting, more often then not, devolves into processed caricature rather
then the engaged perceptiveness we are used to seeing from an
accomplished actor such as Depp. Also, the casting of uber-talented
Geoffry Rush did help break up much of the monotony the time-killing
script wished to parlay. Ultimately though, these elevated Hollywood
performances are buried under ten tons of sheen, smoke, and explosions
that could only be appropriately titled "The Bruckheimer effect" which
finds the mega- producer, as usual, filling in any actual emotional
content with a barrage of over-excessive special effects and action
sequencing. Shame too, because with Depp at the helm, and the few
scenes that show off the inherent humor, personality and flavor this
franchise could have offered, it became obvious that this could have
been so much more memorable then the hollow ride it turns out to be. As
far as popcorn family entertainment goes, I can justify the massive
amount of success the movie has reaped, although to elevate this movie
past the point of good, into the realm of great, as many reviewers have
done, seems well overrated, as I mostly spent my two and a half hours
waiting for the resolution in this lackluster plot.

******
26 July 2006
5
Yes, Johnny Depp is one of today's greatest actors and it's amazing
that he'd dedicate so much time and effort to a character in a
flavour-of-the-month fad movie like this one. But really, that's all
there is to this film. If another actor entirely had played Jack
Sparrow, this movie would get a 5 from me, tops. It is simply an
extremely forgettable film. In 20 years, who will even remember who
played Will Turner or Elizabeth Swann? Knightly and Bloom are good to
look at, but they'll soon be past their expiration date and, let's face
it, no one watches their movies for their acting.The entire movie consists mainly of CGI skeletons, CGI ships and tired
children's' humour derived from would-be funny characters (the
transvestite ghosts, whatever their names were, are the most
forgettable sidekicks this side of Tantor). The plot is as
uninteresting as they come. The only reason to see this film is Depp,
and although his performance is positively amazing, it's not enough to
boost this flick to "great movie" status. His great job and the
gorgeous Caribbean scenery is enough to make this movie an above
average kids' flick, but no more, no less.There's not much else to say on the subject, so I'll leave you eunuchs
to re-watch the film and consider that maybe everything about "Pirates"
really isn't as amazing as you first thought it was. (r#44)

******
22 July 2006
6
I am a HUGE fan of both Depp and the original Pirates. Naturally I went
into this movie with a bit of skepticism as I do with ANY sequel. My
daughter (15) had seen it twice and raved about it. So my 13 year old
son and I went today. As we walked out, he said EXACTLY what was going
thru my head: "I was kind of bored". Me, too.Special effects do not a movie make any more. We've come to expect
that. Something that NEVER changes, though, is the critical element of
a strong plot, something that "Dead Man's Chest" lacks. As near as my
son and I could figure, the whole plot line was that everyone wanted
Davy Jones' heart to control the seas. Yawn. The rest was a showcase
for some admittedly fantastic special effects.Another gripe I had with this movie, as I do with many nowdays, is that
the trend towards such utterly authentic dialogue almost makes much of
the dialogue incomprehensible. Okay, maybe it's because I'm "old" (51)
and my hearing sucks. But the dialects used by Naomi Harris (Tia Dalma)
as well as the usual cast of ragamuffin sailors, was often impossible
to understand. I love the realism; I hate the fact that I missed so
much of the dialogue.It's hard - almost impossible - for a sequel to live up to the
expectations of an original. Only a very few ("Aliens" for example) can
come close or achieve it. In my opinion, and my son's, "Dead Man's
Chest" fell a bit short. Am I glad I saw it? Absolutely. I was
moderately entertained. Would I see it again or buy it on DVD?
Absolutely not.

******
16 July 2006
5
This is one of the most overrated movies of the last decade, just
unbelievable that it reached the top 250.. Johnny Depp is good to watch
(as always) but the rest of acting was terrible, especially Orlando
Bloom. Many people talks about fun, but what is fun? In this movie I
found so much hackneyed entertainment just disguised in a new form:
take away the skeleton pirates, put in it criminals, terrorists, cops
or whatever and you get the same result. With a less banal script and a
bit of drama, ah and yes with a *bit* of characters development this
could have been better, but hey, it's Disney.... This is just the usual
"turn-off-brain" movie, nothing less, nothing more.

******
5 July 2006
4
POTC: TCOTHBP was occasionally interesting. What can one expect, the
movie is based on a ride? Keira Knightley fills well the lovely young
woman role. Johnny Depp is occasionally hilarious and interesting.What largely lacks for POTC is the story (hey, I understand, the ride
was supported by effects and posing too, but it is only a few minutes
long) and... well... the male second. While one can certainly
understand Orlando Bloom's Will Turner's interest in Keira Knightley's
Elizabeth, one can't, however, understand the reciprocation. I
understand actors' withering beside Johnny Depp's irresistible,
on-screen energy and force of personality, but poor Orlando Bloom
nearly puddles beneath the glare. For LOTR all he had to do is stretch
his neck and furrow his brow and that, beneath his lovely, light locks
is what we needed from him there. Unfortunately for us, it seems that
producers haven't yet realized that is all he can do.Geoffrey Rush ranged from over-the-top (which worked) to occasional
attempts at being a sympathetic character (which didn't).There are some decent moments of entertainment including some
laugh-out-loud funny lines involving Captain Jack Black. But this is
not a keeper -- at most, a renter, preferably a borrower.

******
30 June 2012
7
I enjoyed the first "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie. I consider it to
be a very well done pop-corn flick which was very well directed,
managed to combine in a clever way the comedy, the adventure, the
action and the fantasy (And this even adds some little hints of horror)
without insulting the intelligence of the viewers.It is something that whole family could enjoy, and it certainly has
many virtues that deserve appreciation: The production values are
wonderful, the soundtrack composed by Hans Zimmer is excellent, and the
performances of the entire cast were more than appropriate. Even when
the story of the movie isn't very deep or complex, the result is pretty
satisfying.What I don't understand is the absurd comparisons between this movie
and superior films such as "The Lord of the Rings" from Peter Jackson
or the original Indiana Jones trilogy. Those movies are in a completely
different league, and (for me, at least) were life-changing
experiences, with many memorable scenes, while this didn't have
anything remotely comparable to that. "Pirates of the Caribbean" it's a decent adventure flick, but it's way
too overrated. Well, at least this movie was worth-watching and
entertaining, unlike the sequels.

******
2 October 2006
5
I was watching Gladiator the other day and I noticed that in the first
battle in the colliseum the music playing sounded really familiar. And
then I realized that is in Pirates just changed slightly. It pisses me
off that you have to go and steal music from another movie especially
since its one of the best movies ever made. Gladiator = KICK ASS
Pirates = Music Stealer/not as good as Gladiator So if you think
Pirates is good well watch Gladiator instead cause it kicks Pirates ass
any day of the week!!!! I mean Johnny Depp was good and all but people
make him out to be God in this movie. I'm sick of all the hype and
people having orgasisms over these movies. I mean OK they are good we
get it already!! Now if you want to see some good acting watch
GLADIATOR!!!

******
3 August 2006
5
A bunch of pirates have been cursed and need the blood of a certain
individual to break the curse. They end up chasing two englishpersons,
Elizabeth played by Keira Knightley, and Will played by Orland Bloom.
Helping them out is the good guy pirate Captain Jack Sparrow played by
Depp.Depp gives an energetic performance to be sure but this movie goes way
over the top with outrageous scenes and dialogue that would never
happen in real life. I love action-adventure movies and I wish the
producers had taken this show seriously and left out all the slapstick.
There's even a running gag about a pirate with a glass eye.

******
24 July 2006
5
Lame joke, but I can't think of a good summary. Pirates of the
Caribbean is a pretty decent summer blockbuster that received much
acclaim thanks to massive marketing. It's not terribly original, it's
not terribly funny(lots of the lines meant to be funny really doesn't
work very well) and in the end, it's not terribly satisfying either.As movies come, it's solid and well-made and there's nothing to
complain about in directing or the score, which both are good. The
acting is one of the disappointments. Orlando Bloom is totally wooden
as usual, Kiera Knightley doesn't exactly leave an impression, and
Johnny Depp, although he is a god of acting, doesn't take his cool role
nearly as far as he could have(with a script like PoTC's, there's no
room for anything outside the frames of well-tried movie/money-making
guides).The plot is the standard damsel-in-distress scenario and some Incan
curse thrown in for good measure. Add a bit of Dawn of the Dead or the
work of Ray Harrihausen in "Jason and the Argonauts" and you have the
storyline.I've watched PoTC two times and it has failed to impress me both times.
It's a bit too violent to be appropriate to the audience I think would
have appreciated it best, and a bit to childish to appeal to the rest
of the movie-goers. Not something you have to see.

******
14 July 2006
3
Thank god there are other people in the world whom don't 'love' this
film. Pirates of the Caribbean is so overrated, if it wasn't for johnny
depp, then it would be a washout completely, which says a great deal
about it. If I am honest I fell asleep about three quarters of the way
through the film, out of sheer boredom, i think Knightley's famous line
'try wearing a corset' set me down for the night. I saw this film last
year, and had expected a masterpiece since many people had such high
praises for it. The storyline is mediocre, the acting of two of the key
actors, Knightly and Bloom (sorry I don't know their characters names,
there is a simple reason for this!) is very average. I can remember
very little from the film, as it has mere substance. Unfortunately, I
have to now deal with people having panic attacks over the release of
the sequel..oh well.

******
4 July 2006
3
Among all of my friends who saw this movie, both pirate/Depp fanatics
and neutral, told me that it was such an amazing movie, and that they
are excited about the sequel that's coming soon, and how I HAVE to see
this movie. So, I did.I got pretty much what I expected, except less. I found the jokes
unamusing, action sequence unexciting, the music just droning
on-and-on-and-on... Really, I mean, what was so spectacular about this
movie? I'm surprised that I managed to stay wake for the ordeal.The acting was good, I guess. I wasn't too impressed with any of the
characters. Jack Sparrow was kind of amusing, but his antics got really
old very fast. Orlando Bloom and Knightly's characters were plain
boring. But the character I was most disappointed in was Captain
Barbossa -- such an uninteresting villain, absolutely no noteworthy
character.I'm giving this movie a 3 out of 10, and I feel like I'm being
generous. I know I'm not going to spend my hard earned dollars on the
sequel.

******
5 March 2006
4
'Pirates of the Caribbean' is an old-fashioned adventure pirate film,
combining new animation techniques with humor, romance, and pirate
battles. The film is not a great film by any means; it is simply fun.
The film moved a little slow in some places, and I was not impressed by
Johnny Depp's performance at all. The film really had little to offer
in terms of an original story, but if you are looking for a film that
is fun and something to liven up a dull evening, this film is okay.
Children and adults can both enjoy this. It's not great, but it can
probably be enjoyed by a wide audience. I give this a 4/10 because I
did not think it was anything special.

******
13 June 2007
10
I must say when I first watched this movie, I loved it, I loved the
plot, music, characters, and the actors. The actors are so good in this
movie that I surprised that they were even acting, and pretending to be
like the people in the movie. Johnny Depp really did his best in this
one, and I was not even the smallest surprised that he did an amazing
job in this movie. Seriously, if they picked anyone else for the role
of Captain Jack Sparrow, then I would not like this movie, and no one
else would like it. Everyone I know believes so, and no one yet has
stepped up and said something about changing the actor for Captain Jack
Sparrow.The writers did an amazing job with the script, but obviously Johnny
Depp did a little improv while acting this role. Very good improv at
that. All the other actors where good too, Orlando Bloom, Keira
Knightly, and Geoffory Rush, which happened to also be one of my
favorite characters in the movie also. Oh yes, the role of Barbossa
really knocked me in the head. His acting was almost as good as Johnny
Depp's. The way he looked and talked just freaked the hell out of me
and I just wanted to scream my lungs out.The special effects in this movie also got me too, the way the
Skeletons look when the moon rises really got me. The special effects
people did an amazing job at that, as well as the Make-Up people.
Putting Make-Up on Johnny must of been tiring for both him and the
people, as his role had a lot to do with that. I for one would not like
it at all, I can't even handle 2 days of it.10/10, most people would agree that this movie is very stunning, and
well done. The actors play their roles as if they themselves are that
person, and all the other people who made this film possible, I bow
down to your success pf getting into half of the worlds hearts.

******
12 June 2007
9
This one of those movies which you want a GOOD second part of the
history, buy you find that the money destroys the movie, this part of
the movie shows a great pirate Jak Sparrow, the way that Deep acts in
this movie is very natural and makes a great acting, everyone fits on
its character and the plot of Barbosa seeking for that Cortez's gold is
very original.I haven't seen the third part because ¡the second one was so awful!, in
my opinion the acting gets loosed (just look the difference between
Jack Sparrow on the 1st movie and the 2nd one) and its one of the most
boring movies i've ever seen.Remember, thats the second part, but i totally recommend this movie,
its very fun and it got too much nominations, but finally it deserves
them

******
9 October 2006
5
what do you get when you have a movie that is over-hyped it can't live
up to the expectation?you get pirates of the caribbean.my hopes were
through the roof for this one based on all the ads and great
reviews.man,what a letdown.this isn't necessarily a bad movie,but it is
nowhere near as great as i was led to believe.the acting was okay,and
there was some humour,but i think it tried to be funnier than it
actually was.there are many films made with very small
budgets,including marketing, and many turn out to be fine and sometimes
successful films.i guess hollyweird just doesn't get it.then again, i
guess i don't get it either since i believed all the hype and went to
see this movie.i give it 5* out of 10 based mostly on the acting and
some humour

******
17 September 2006
3
Pirates of the Caribbean, The Curse of the Black Pearl - The movie is
as aimless as the tittle. Pirates attack a settlement known as Port
Royal and capture the town's governor's daughter, Elizabeth Swann
(Keira Knightley), as they believe that she is the one who can remove a
curse set upon them. They lug her aboard the Black Pearl, their ominous
sailing ship. In a prison in a battered garrison in Port Royal, William
Turner (Orlando Bloom) makes arrangements to free Jack Sparrow (Johnny
Depp), A captive, and some-what idiotic pirate, in exchange for his aid
to rescue Miss Elizabeth Swann, the woman who William is madly in love
with. Along the way, there are many sword fights, but as this movie is
a pirate one, viewers will expect a major death. Sadly there are none.
Most of the time it miraculously stops or those cursed pirates never
die, because they're practically undead. Many of the fights are
absolutely retarded and pointless, with no purpose what so ever, except
just to allow this movie to be classified under a pirate theme. The
director, Gore Verbinski, made a horrific effort to add suspense, and
about the only scary thing in the film is a cursed monkey!The characters, although interesting at first impression, soon get
boring and ridiculous! Jack Sparrow has a major speech impediment,
always looks like he's drunk 24/7 and seems to have hands that don't
look connected to his wrists! His opening scene where viewers first
catch a gimps of Jack was quite comical, but his later acts were plain,
foolish. It's impossible to believe that such a pirate could even be
conceived! The actor Johnny Depp played a magnificent part, but it's
Disney's lack in concept to produce a more credible character, which
unfortunately destroyed the feel of a real pirate film. The character
William Turner was an even bigger let down. His jokes are dry to the
bone, at best they my cause a chuckle. His character's desires are
typical of what modern movies are about. All of this was made worst
with the selection of actor to play the role. Orlando Bloom's parts in
the film were particularly weak and lacking in emphasis, as you felt
that Jack Sparrow was more important then the less adventurous
blacksmith Will.The few good things about, The Pirates of the Caribbean, The Curse of
the Black Pearl are the tunes and the CGI effects. These are the only
factors that keep the viewer from going to sleep! The music is on the
dot, particularly when you see beautiful long shots of the
surroundings. You'll get butterflies in you stomach, similar to the
Lord of the Rings trilogy, when you witness the sight of the Computer
Generated Images! Since the cursed pirates can only take the undead
form in certain conditions, the lighting, and shadow effects make these
images top-notch.This film is better of to just have CGI pirates walking around, raiding
random ships, then to have poorly thought of characters, residing in
the picture. There is too much that has been added to the film, and the
mambo-jumbo comedy, action, thriller, love story, adventure theme is
just a missive cliché of genres. The attempt made by Disney to have a
classical family movie was a disastrous shamble! Millions of dollars
have been wasted, down drain on actors who don't even suit the
characters. I strongly recommend no one see this monstrous movie, as
viewers would also be throwing away their money down the drain.

******
18 June 2006
10
"Me? I'm dishonest and a dishonest man you can trust to be dishonest
honestly. It's the honest ones you have to watch out for... You can
never predict when they're going to do something incredibly...
*STUPID*" "You need to find yourself a girl mate... Or perhaps the
reason you practice three hours a day is because you have found a girl
and are otherwise incapable of wooing said strumpet... You aren't a
eunuch are you?" "As long as you are just hanging there pay attention
the only rules that matter are these: What a man can do and what a man
can't do. For example you can except that your father was a pirate and
a good man or you can't but, pirate is in your blood boy and you will
have to square with that someday. Me? I can let you drown but I can't
sail into Tortuga all by me onesis Savvy? Now can you sail under the
command of a Pirate or can you not?" These are just three of some of
the most memorable quotes that Captain Jack will let you listen to if
you watch this movie. Trust me you will love this movie it has been...
is... and will always be loved by people of all ages and generations.
You can still be cought up in it even though it takes place years from
now.

******
13 June 2006
10
Wow was this movie good! I don't think I've ever seen a movie like this
before! I went to go see it when it first came out in 2003 at a huge
theater and it was almost completely full, but luckily I got in. I
wanted to go see it because people kept on bragging on about it so I
just wanted to check how it really was, and to tell you the truth, I
don't regret any of it.This is also probably one of Johnny Depp's best movies. He was a
perfect and sometimes even funny character in the movie. He met the
exact pirate voice, which is kind of weird because I haven't heard him
talking like that before. Also, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley did a
good job. It was just a really good movie with an awesome storyline.The reason I'm giving it a 10 is because of the plot, the cast, the
acting and so forth.. And I feel that it was delivered in this amazing
pirate movie! So if you're bored one night, and decide that you wanna
rent a movie that you haven't seen before, I suggest picking up Pirates
of the Caribbean, as you won't be disappointed.

******
8 June 2006
10
i saw it a long long time and i liked it no i loved it. it was
excellent i am going to watch the new movie Johnny Depp was great. and
so does Keira Knigthley i am going to watch it another time if you
didn't watch it you need to watch it. you will love it it has action
and adventure and zombies but who are afraid of zombies? its not
suitable for kids but some kids that have 13 years old and more can
watch it. great movie i can't wait to watch the 2 or even if its a long
long trilogy i will watch it.10/10or even 1000/1000

******
29 May 2006
10
Johnny Depp is truly an acting legend of recent years. This film is
proof of it. He is always very considerate of what roles he takes on
and is usually a totally different character in each of them.Jack Sparrow is no exception. He is absolutely hilarious, as is his
accent which does ring true; plus his friendship with Orlando Bloom's
character Will Turner also rings true. There is chemistry between Depp
and whomever he shares dialogue with because he is central to the whole
movie - thankfully. Depp is my all-time favourite actor, I think he is
so much more talented than he gives himself credit for. Bloom and Keira
Knightley form the romance, which expected in all modern movies so I
can't complain because the acting is great all round. Another talented
actor who proves himself in this movie is Geoffrey Rush. Like Depp he
brings charisma and comedy to the role, as well as threat. Barbosa is a
character you love to hate (because of how he treats Sparrow as you
will see for yourself and what we learn from their history).Jack Sparrow's drunkenness will have you splitting your sides with
laughter, believe me. If not then you can't possibly be viewing the
same movie. 'Yo ho a pirate's life for me' was sang by Depp and
Knightley who are rightfully paired by a campfire in one scene. There
is a spark but the romance is firmly between Will and Elizabeth
(Knightley). A great movie I would definitely recommend for anyone over
the age of 12 who loves a good action movie mixed with comedy, romance
and the talent of Johnny Depp! I give it full marks

******
19 January 2006
5
One of 'the' most over rated films of the twenty-first century, this
film is truly abysmal. I know those of you who have posted positive
reviews will be searching these pages for negative comments so that you
can then go on to berate us, will loathe me and this brief summary but
it is true. The film is a one man band, and therein lies its most fatal flaw and
its only saving grace. Johnny Depp, arguably one of the most, if not
the most, well rounded actor of the present times, provides a
captivating and mesmeric performance as "Captain Jack Sparrow" and is
truly a delight to watch, from his accent, to his well timed humour, to
just about everything that goes wrong for him...and that's about it.
Take out Depp, and you have a Shakespearean tragedy without the
Shakespearean part. Orlando Bloom has already proved in recent times that he is completely
incapable of carrying a film. He does not only not have the stage
presence, but his acting varies from poor to woeful, and always with
that unnecessarily husky voice, to show that he's conveying either
aggression, passion, fear, loathing and just about every other emotion
under the sun, as he is just so damned monotonic. Knightly is THE most over rated female actor of the present day. I hear
people raving over her acting skills, yet this and Pride and Prejudice
have been the biggest films she's starred in, one flopped and one was
carried through by Depp, hardly a sparkling resume. Not only is she
incapable of acting (like Bloom) but she has THE WORST line in cinema
of the 21st Century "Try Wearing a Corset"....no thanks. Honestly, she
delivers it in such a matter of fact manner as if it were part of a
recipes serving suggestion, "you could try adding a touch of basil or
garlic or even wearing a corset"The film is entertaining in moments, but follows a very predictable and
very typical Hollywood formula which is starting to get really old,
really fast, and with the new one on its way, is only going to get
older and more decrepit.So welcome to Pirates of th...zzzzzzzzzz....oh, sorry...Is it over yet?

******
31 October 2005
10
Despite the obvious gift of total hotties in this movie (Ahem: Johnny
and Orlando) the plot, for the most part, is very original. Sure, it's
about Will Turner going off to save the woman he loves, but the plot is
so intricate and delightful that the first time you watch it, you don't
even concentrate on how gorgeous these men are, but more so on the
plot.The actors were well-placed as their characters, but most importantly
the characters were believable, due firstly to the writers. The CGI
effects were truly amazing, as they were able to characterize the
skeletons to the characters, which made it easy to keep track of them.Pirates, well put together, is not just a family-fun movie or a
chick-flick, but rather something that just about anyone can enjoy:
action for men, romance for women, and humor all around.Shorlty: humorous and captivating, this is a must-see. One can only
hope that the second and third movies are as well-written.

******
25 August 2008
9
Oh and what a movie this is. There is something for everyone in the
family with this movie, romance, action, drama, horror, adventure and
fantasy. A quality of acting rivaling no other movie in recent times,
except for the Rings trilogy, but that's another thing altogether. I
have watched this movies so many times that I can't even keep track.
This movie never gets boring. Johnny Depp is at the top of this career
with this film!! A must see, many times over. A true classic! The
cursed tale of a pirate ship's captain, marooned by his mutineering
mates and left for dead on a desert isle. He returns with another ship,
this time stolen from the Royal Navy, in order to reclaim his rightful
command of the infamous Black Pearl, a ship so evil that hell itself
spat back her dead. He is joined by the son of a murdered pirate ship's
mate, a swordsman who's skill and craft are equal to that of Robin Hood
himself. The boy is motivated by love for a woman, herself of royal
blood and captured by those mutineering pirates of ill repute in order
to release a curse cast upon them from the captured gold of the famous
Spanish explorer and conquistador, Hernando Cortez. With the Royal Navy
in hot pursuit of their stolen ship, the captain and the boy, along
with another crew of pirates, make haste for the Black Pearl, execute a
cunning plan, and live happily ever after. Well, not exactly like that
but almost. This film is destined a classic because of the dry, witty
comments, superb acting of the entire cast, outstanding writing and
special effects, and it's about time someone put this swashbuckling
story to film. Rated PG-13, which is the number of times you should see
this movie.

******
20 August 2008
9
This was one of the best movie that I have ever seen! I didn't see this
film at the cinema, but I really wish I had because it has instantly
become one of my favorite movies of all time. I bought the DVD because
I'd heard good things about the movie, and I've been to both Disneyland
Paris, and Disneyland Florida and loved the Pirates ride at both of
them. Having been on the ride, it's quite easy to spot many things in
the movie that pay tribute to the ride, especially in the town scenes.
I wasn't sure what to expect when I bought the movie, but I definitely
didn't expect to laugh so much! This movie has such a wonderful
combination of excellent acting, astounding special effects, and dry
humor. Johnny Depp steals practically every scene he occupies, and
Geoffrey Rush is excellent and sinister in his villainous turn. It's
about as high-quality fun as one might demand in a summer blockbuster,
and will have you singing "Yo ho, ho ho" for days and days to come. A
"pirate's life" is plenty the life in "Pirates of the Caribbean", an
worthy, intelligent sea-faring adventure guaranteed to leave you, at
the very least, plenty satisfied.

******
29 July 2006
10
This movie is a very funny romanticization of those Pirates of the
Caribbean during the early 1700s, yet touches a deep & wonderful sense
of adventure in us even now.The sea "pirate" that is Captain Jack Sparrow is that childlike spirit
that lives in all of us - "despite all the evidence to the contrary" -
and has its source beyond and without any definition of worldly
authorization. J.R.R.Tolkien had a saying - "not all who wander are
lost".And another truly great thing about this movie - it is not in the least
pretentious or heavy handed nor does it wallow in personal issues like
so many self-important films today.'Pirates of the Caribbean - The Curse of the Black Pearl' is just one
very cool, well made and fun movie!! p.s. if you liked this Pirate flick - another kind of 'pirate' in our more
contemporary times (1992) that you might enjoy and might want to check
out is 'Captain Ron' (as in the movie with Kurt Russell). Two very
different movies but the spirit of Captain Jack Sparrow could be a
match with 'Captain Ron' in another time and place .

******
18 May 2013
4
This is a perfect movie if (A) you are a twelve year old boy, (B) you
like to see stunt men ejected from explosions over and over and over
again (C) you will watch anything with Johnny Depp, regardless. For more discriminating adults, the two and a half hours of noise and
chaos unrelieved by any semblance of careful plotting becomes tedious.
Depp is certainly fun for the first half hour, sending up the pirate
image by coating his eyes with kohl and sending up the Disney image by
acting a little less than wholesome, but after a while, one longs for
more than people screaming with swords in their hands backed up with a
bombastic music score that underscores the emptiness of the enterprise.One longs for the sense of heroic purpose and genuine derring-do
exemplified by Errol Flynn/ Douglas Fairbanks, Jr, or Burt Lancaster in
such grand adventures as The Sea Hawk, Captain Blood, Sinbad The Sailor
or The Crimson Pirate, all recently released on vivid, family-oriented
DVDs; Pirates From The Carribbean is cynical corporate entertainment,
the humor ironic or tongue-in-cheek, and, though marketed as such, is
really not for children unless they are so desensitized to blood and
savagery from video games that nightmarish visions do not bother them.

******
24 July 2006
2
If you voted 10 for this film, you'd better be 10 years old or else
this is simply unforgivable.Pirates of the Caribbean is a truly excruciating experience. I hate
this film on so many levels, covering so many aspects and ranging from
crew to cast that it actually makes me physically ill to watch. So if I
hate this film to the core, then what's the 2/10 for, you ask? The
answer is; I think this film could be entertaining to kids and the odd
pre-teen. It is, after all, a Disney production based on a popular
Disney ride in a theme park and I think this explains its paper-thin
plot of "saving the damsel in distress (Keira Knightley), killing the
bad guy (Geoffrey Rush) and having an over-the-top comedic sidekick
(Johnny Depp) whilst doing it".I don't know whose genius idea it was to cast Orlando Bloom as the
romantic and heroic lead, but this choice helps him cement his position
as the resident Hollywood lucky-guy, getting by without so much as a
shred of talent, but inexplicably being offered big-budget project
after the other. Furthermore, my theory is that Bloom's bad acting is
contagious and affected the rest of the cast of Pirates of the
Caribbean like a nasty case of the flu. Keira Knightley is a stunning
woman but all she does here is pout with her pretty lips until she gets
to deliver some cheeseball tough-chick line like "You like pain? *WHAM*
Try wearing a corset." I'm no member of the Depp camp but I think he
has pulled off some great performances in the past, but in Pirates, he
is so over-the-top and corny that this can impossibly appeal to an
adult audience.So aside from the cringe-worthy "corset" line by Keira Knightley, the
dialogue-writing on the film really puzzles me. It's like it's camp but
not intentionally. I believe this film truly thinks it's clever and
amusing when it's only extremely embarrassing. Juvenile generic action
sequences, long-drawn segments, contrived performances, dumb plot and
overblown special effects make Pirates of the Caribbean an unwatchable
adventure.2/10

******
18 July 2006
10
I guess I am a bit of a nut when it comes to pirates, but there simply
aren't enough films that depict this brilliantly caricatured era.Pirates of the Carribbean adds to the mix a tad of supernatural
elements and makes a very standard plot into a fun adventure by adding
several memorable characters. The special-effects add to the feeling of
the film, but at no point does the film become too big. There's no plot
to conquer the world. Everything in the film is very down to earth and
personal.Johnny Depp naturally adds to the film with his brilliant performance
as Jack Sparrow, possibly one of the most original characters I've seen
in a long while. He's become one of my favorites alongside such figures
as Darth Vader, Bond and Riddick.A very nicely done adventure. Brilliant movie!

******
17 July 2003
5

To tell you the truth I can't remember much about the plot--and I just saw
it last night!  Something about a cursed pirate ship and its crew and how
they all turn to skeletons when moonlight hits them and how they need some
coins or something to release the curse...I was so bored during this film my
mind kept wandering.  Maybe I just don't like pirate films but I think
there's more to it than that.This film has some major problems--it's way too long (half an hour could
have been cut out easily); the story is (needlessly) convoluted and very
badly done (I'm blaming the screenwriters and director, NOT the actors);
despite all the explosions and fights the action scenes are surprisingly
dull; there's loads of casual violence; leading lady Knightley is constantly
being hit in the face and the admittedly great special effects just didn't
grab me.  There is a spectacular sword fight at the end with the men going
in and out of moonlight and going from skeleton to man and back again--but
it's too little too late.  The direction is WAY off too--he seems unsure of
how to frame scenes and it makes things very confusing.I can't fault the actors--Orlando Bloom (very handsome with beautiful black
eyes) is very good in a badly written role. Keira Knightly's role is even
worse--she's just "the girl" in the movie and no one could be good in it. 
Geoffrey Rush is OK as the pirate chief.  Johnny Depp is the one reason to
watch this movie.  His performance is so off-beat and funny he keeps the
film afloat.  Just his mannerisms and facial expressions give an unexpected
kick to lines.So...this handsome production sinks because of bad direction, ridiculous
length and many many boring stretches.  Unless you're a huge fan of pirate
movies you can skip this one.


******
20 February 2004
3

When I sat down to watch this movie, I was expecting to see a movie that was
decent at best. I was very surprised to find how unbelievably bad it was.
The plot is non-sensical jibberish. The characters are all one-dimensional,
either good-to-the-heart, or bad-to-the-bone, with absolutely no variations.
The acting is horrendous, Johnny Depp is like a washed-up rock-star, heavily
drugged and very drunk, the entire time. Orlando Bloom is nothing but a
simple rehash of the knight in shining armor, if only a bit more easily
tolerated. Keira Knightley is just a damsel in distress, pure and simple,
nothing else. Something I found ridiculous, was that every other character,
even minor characters, mastered sword fighting. The humor is unbelievably
childish, at several times it was on the level of the newer Simpsons
episodes, which made me cringe more than I believed was possible. All of the
CGI effects were very bland, most looked like they could easily have been
made at the same mediocre quality several years ago. Why so many people
claim this is a great film eludes me. If you ever even consider to sit down
and watch this, make sure you keep your expectations very low. Very
overrated. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone, as it is simply too long,
too boring, too bland and too cringe-worthy to be the least bit enjoyable.
3/10

******
14 March 2006
2
If this is among the best from Hollywood, I don't think I'm going to
another for a long time.I know I'm in the minority, but I just don't see the point of this
movie. Its plot was totally predictable, filled with all the usual
silly impossible heroics. The protagonists, by all rights, should have
been killed many times over.The movie also had a rash of other implausibilities, e.g., no one on
the protagonists' crew died despite sustained mortal combat against a
superior foe, who by virtue of a curse, could not die. The ending was
especially nonsensical: several times throughout the movie, Orlando
Bloom had been condemned to death (of course, he implausibly escapes
each time) after having saved the life of the beloved fiancée of the
commander (and daughter of the governor). Then at the end, they simply
lets him and his accomplice go?!?! Even the Johnny Depp character,
which admittedly had some charm and craftiness, didn't make sense: why
was he seemingly quasi-drunk all the time, slurring his syllables? And
why all the eye-makeup? In the end, I wonder about all the money spent
on this movie, and about a society in which a silly, pointless fantasy
can be lauded as among the finest cultural outputs in years.

******
16 July 2003
10

I was lucky enough to go to the European premiere of this film , and I
thought it was amazing. The special affects are brilliant and Johnny Depp
is
great, i thought that he alone made the film , as he made his character
so
unique and he was hilarious (the eyeliner is so cool). I found Orlando
Bloom
a bit disappointing in the film , as I thought that he didnt put much
feeling into his lines, and didnt stand out amongst the other more lively
characters .The action is excellent , and the skeleton pirates are
extremely
realistic and scary.
This film overall is excellent , and well worth seeing for Johnny
Depp(Captain Jack Sparrow)if anything. 

******
12 July 2003
9

I wasn't expecting much from this movie but walked out of the theater
commenting that this was probably the best movie I've seen yet this year and
now that I've thought more about it, it is.  I will even go as far as to
rank it up there with the LOTR movies, which is saying a lot.  I still think
the LOTR movies are at the top but Pirates was at least in the same
league.Jack Sparrow couldn't have been casted any better, Orlando Bloom continues
to prove himself, Geoffrey Rush was excellent as always and the newcomer,
Keira Knightley (who is a dead ringer for but acts a lot better than Natalie
Portman), was refreshing.The writing was superb, the effects were top notch and I gave it a 9/10. 
Excellent!

******
10 July 2003
9

First, I am not a fan of Johnny Depp.  I usually can't stand the
guy.BUT, he was incredible in this movie!  I went to see it for Geoffrey Rush
and the special effects.  Depp stole every scene he appeared in. Even when
he was in the background, he called attention to himself without hamming
it
up. I don't know why he wore 10X as much makeup as Elizabeth Swann, but it
suited his over the top performance.Rush gave his usual great acting job.  And, the other pirates in the movie
made me laugh as well.  The movie was much funnier than I was
expecting.Bloom seems to be the person they are pushing in this movie, maybe because
of the success of the Lord of the Rings, but he sank into the background
in
his scenes with Depp.It was well over two hours, but I don't remember thinking that it was
slow.
It flowed very well and kept me and my two children quite entertained.
PLUS, the worst language in it was "bloody."  Which makes a mother happy!
I
don't think it was much worse than watching cartoons as far as violence
goes, but the pirates might scare small children.  It didn't scare my
small
one, but I could see where it might.It was actually the best action movie I have seen in some time.  I saw T3
three days ago and did not come away nearly as impressed with it as I did
this movie.  The special effects with the pirates were incredible!  The
animated people did not seem to move jerkily like I have noticed in other
movies.  They seemed liquid and to move as a real person
would.I can't say enough about how entertained I was watching this
film.

******
10 July 2003
9

I was going to wait for video for this one, but I got sucked in at the last
minute. I must say that this was a very good movie. Rush was solid,
Knightley and Bloom were pretty good, and Depp was outstanding. I am NOT a
Johnny Depp fan, but he really surprised me in this role. He plays the part
of the pirate extremely well. This is not your usual Jerry Bruckheimer
film, it is pretty toned down from the explosions and such. Don't get me
wrong, it has it's share of action and entertainment, just not your "The
Rock" type of movie. All in all, I would reccommend it to all over the age
of 13-15 or so.

******
10 July 2003
9

Was a wonderfull movie, Johnny Depp stole the show as Jack Sparrow, hes
crazy and endearing. Orlando Bloom, was terribly good looking, and rather
amusing as well, his character didnt seem to stand up with jack sparrows
character, but Orlando did a fine job anway.Keira knightly was gorgeous
and
not annoying has the leading lady. Generally I really really enjoyed it.
Geoffrey Rush was wonderfull as your undead villian. Special effects were
fantstical, You didnt even really think about them being there. All
around i
highly enjoyed it and recommend it highly!

******
10 July 2003
9

A brilliant action film. Well-choreographed fight scenes, a sweet
romantic
storyline, and thoroughly enjoyable humour.
Orlando Bloom plays a very convincing sweetheart, and the ever-worthwhile
Depp plays a delightful scoundrel with a quick wit and excellent
flair.Definitely one for the collection.

******
10 July 2003
9

This is one of those rare movies that captures your attention and keeps
it
all the way through.  The magic of this film is something that makes the
rest of the movies (Harry Potter included) seems mild in
comparison!Johnny Depp, while not delivering his best performance, was consistently
loveable and hate-able.  He never fell out of character and he is one I
loved to hate.The Pirate ship was truly a masterpiece.  The shocks of ghosts surround
and
hold you close while making you squirm through ghosts and flesh.  The
pirates are absolutely terrifying when seen for what they
are.While I do not recommend this for the squeamish or the faint of heart.
It
is a family film -- but only if your kids are teenagers!  Don't be fooled
into believing that you should take the little ones to this -- it is not
a
child's movie.Enjoy!


******
10 July 2003
9

I came out of this movie last night with a big smile on my face. I hadn't
had that good of a time at the movies in a long time. This is an all-round
fun time at the theater, one that you will regret if you miss it. The
acting
is superb on all parts, from the barely noticed crew that Jack Sparrow
(Johnny Depp) hires to the big wigs themsevles, this is a winner. Johnny
Depp is absolutely deft at Captain Jack Sparrow, Geoffrey Rush oozes evil
as
Captain Barbossa, Keira Knightely pulls of the character of Elizabeth
Swann
very beautifully (both physically and actorly) and Orlando Bloom is always
a
joy to see. The writers should be handed medals, considering all the other
crap that Hollywood has put out in 2003. (Minus X2, Reloaded, Finding
Nemo,
The Hulk) Gore Verbinski shows the audience that pirate movies are not
dead,
they just need a story, great actors, lots of action, and humor that isn't
boring. All the shows last night were sold out, so it looks like Disney
has
come up with a true winner for a change. Now, go see it and have a fun
time
at the theater.

******
10 July 2003
9

Unlike most summer blockbusters, 'Pirates' lives up to its hype and
delivers what it set out to. This movie was fun, fast paced and action
packed without having to rely on gimmicky plot depreciating tricks or
cussing. There was actually a very detail-driven story which was followed
through very well from beginning to end. The movie is serious without
losing
sight of the comedy in many situations. The technical aspects as well are
PHENOMENAL.Johnny Depp does not disappoint in this role of unwitting hero which
seems
to be tailor made for him (I'm willing to bet his coolness quotient with
his
kids just went up tenfold.). Geoffory Rush is positively evil as the
rouge
ghost captain, leaving you chilled with merely a glance from his yellowed
eyes. Orlando Bloom seems equally well fitted for his role as pirate
hater
with a past. His swashbuckling scenes are marvelous and you can see how
his
stint in 'Lord of the Rings' paid off. Every character from the most
minor
to the large roles had an important part in the furthering of the
story.Overall, I'd this movie is well worth seeing, even just for the sheer
amusement of picking out scenes from the Disney ride. Plus, you can take
your kids because despite the PG-13 rating there was no bad language and
very little blood (the ghosts may be a little scary for young children).
I
would definitely see this movie again and recommend it to
others.Good job, Disney!


******
10 July 2003
9

Disney never ceases to amaze me.  'Pirates' is a humorous yet
well-portrayed
movie.  Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow and Orlando Bloom as Will Turner are a
kickass team in this movie of truth, honor, love, and adventure for the
entire family!  8.8 out of 10.

******
9 July 2003
9

Hello! I just came from a preview in Denver. This movie has it all.
Action,
adventure, comedy, romance, pirates, skeletons, references to the ride at
Disneyland, one hot babe and oh yeah Depp and Bloom. Go see it at least
twice!

******
8 July 2003
9

The movie turned out much better than I had expected. There was something
for everyone, (action, comedy, romance, special effects). It keeps your
attention throughout. The special effects did not take over the movie, as
some do and the fights did not drag out. Johnny Depp did a great job of
playing himself dressed in pirates clothing. 

******
12 May 2015
5
I thoroughly hate all the Pirates of Caribbean movies because they make
a mockery of the complete genre, by the sole performance of 'Captain
Jack Sparrow' as ultimate sissy captain. Which pirate in his right mind
would ever accept him as his captain? He is the ultimate anti-pirate,
and an insult to the spirit of all pirate movies. Without him the movie
would at least have some merit, although it still would be mediocre.Rather watch Cutthroat Island with Geena Davis as female captain, she
has more balls than Jack. Master and Commander is in a slightly
different genre, but has a real captain on the reel. Or even better,
watch the Horatio Hornblower series, where we see the development of an
honorable midshipman into captain, in a fantastic historic period
piece.Still five stars for the decent production values and a bit of a story.

******
17 January 2015
5
To me, this was a disappointing movie. I anyhow wasn't that much
inclined to see it, because of the popularity amongst the youngsters:
that's invariably a bad token. So maybe I should rephrase my opening
sentence. The movie was what I expected, but I'm always disappointed my
bad expectations are so vastly responded to. This product is so
obviously invented - with the help of some adequate stealing from the
predecessors in the genre. To name a few examples: Jack Sparrows
bearing clearly is a loan from Sandokan, the head figure of a popular
pirate series in the 70's; the stern character of the commodore, rigid
and uncompromising as in numerous examples before (the loosening at the
end is a bland falsification); the Yankee Doodle type of the father of
the heroine; and so on. The movie distinctly was made for commercial
purposes, and has no historical traits whatsoever. The Zombie effect of
pirates doomed to perpetual half-life is one of the many dispirited
genuflections to modern taste and merely augments the mendacious value
of the motion picture. I can give more instances of such unhistorical
nonsense, but cannot do so without giving away the plot; so I'll avoid
that error. All in all, if you like pure fantasy without any pretension
of truth  go see it, when you have nothing better to do. But don't you
think things in any respect could've happened this way; life isn't a
fairy-tale.

******
5 November 2014
2
I can not remember the last time I saw a Disney film that was as bad as
this is. Why do people who have had no acting lessons and are not fully
trained actors continually get acting work at the expense of those that
have been fully trained and therefore can act? Johnny Depp is proof of
point of someone who has absolutely no ability to act whatsoever due to
having had no lessons in how to act and is the complete opposite of
fully trained and yet he keeps getting work in front of someone who is
fully trained! The rest of the cast did rather well with the dreadful
script, the storyline was almost non-existent, and didn't do anything
remotely new. If half of The scenes where buckles were swashed and cut
the rest shorter there still would have been far more than enough swash
buckling to suit everyone that went to see the film. At over two hours
long half an hour could have been taken out and it still would have
been far too long! Johnny Depp's English accent was....well....let's
just say it was obvious that it was an American trying to speak in and
with an English accent, unlike Kevin Costner when he did Robin Hood
Prince Of Thieves! There was ABSOLUTELY NOTHING good about this generic pirate film. It
had two story lines in it both of them having been told and shown
countless times in far better ways numerous times before I wouldn't be
at all surprised. OK so I Told a lie when I said there was absolutely
nothing good about the film, as there was on thing good about it, the
closing/end credits! Once they come on it means, thankfully, this
extremely boring, exceedingly tedious film that has been
stre-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-tched to as long as it can be can now be switched
off!

******
13 August 2014
3
After watching one of the greatest pirate movies ever made (Captain
Blood,) I decided to finally give this a try. People are astounded that
I have never seen a PotC movie. Nope. Not one. Never. Why? Not
interested so much in the Hollywood machine. They do make some good
films, and give plenty of regular people jobs, but I'm not a sheep,
thanks; I'll stick to watching what I like to watch and if I watch a
"Pirates" movie someday then so be it. Well, someday arrived tonight
and I must say, I am not impressed. Nope. Not really. Johnny Depp has
some funny moments but two hours of him acting like that is too much.
And Captain Jack Sparrow is barely a pirate. A leader of men? Give me a
break. He's pathetic. There's some good acting from Keira Knightly and
Geoffrey Rush and Jack Davenport, but Depp's hammyness is borderline
mental and helps ruin this movie. And what's with the CGI skeleton
pirates? I thought this was gonna be a pirate movie. It's McDisney junk
food that's only mildly entertaining at best. I was more bored than
entertained.5.3 / 10 stars--Zoooma, a Kat Pirate Screener

******
9 August 2013
5
I suppose the fact that Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the
Black Pearl depicts a sword fight between two immortals that lasts for
several minutes is really the clincher that the film does not amount to
much more than a bit of throwaway nonsense. The scene, wherein it is
readily identified by both parties that the futility of their actions
can be equated only to their skills in sword fighting in the first
place, epitomises just how much director Gore Verbinski is enjoying
himself and just how much his audience aren't. For many years, the
notion of what happens when an unstoppable force meets and immovable
object has befuddled physicists; it may very well have to take second
stage to the conundrum of what happens when two invulnerable forces do
battle to the death. Do not think there is any attempt at solving such
a riddle, for the director is merely pleased with the fact he's
bringing all of this spectacle to life in the first place. It falls to
all the usual Hollywood mistakes and annoyances: visual and oral
bombardment consisting of grandeur tracking shots put to a booming
score, while the completely ill-judged decision to cut back and forth
from harmless comedy to scenes of a massacre represents American
event-movie directing at its very worst. Like most of its ilk, it's too
long and while there is some heady adventure in there at times, the
film is too bad too often to actually get too excited about.There is no secret in the fact the film struggles with its narrative,
seemingly desiring to balance the role of protagonist between three
different people but only really ending up telling the story of a
doomed crew to a series of fancy edits and prolonged sword fights.
Somewhere down the line, ideas either ran out or became cross
contaminated; the film is quite so evidently in love with its opening
act that it hardly seems to want to launch its characters into a quest,
while restless audiences will merely crave the opposite. And then there
is that opening act, where, for all the errs of its ways and evident
mistakes later on, the film starts surprisingly well. Beginning several
years before the main body of the text, the film first depicts
Elizabeth Swann on board a British galleon during the colonial era
spying a young boy in the water. Once aboard, she discovers his true
nature in that he's a pirate  a sworn enemy to those on board but she
keeps it a secret out of feeling quite fond for him and not wanting to
see him lose his life. As the years pass, Swann grows up into Keira
Knightley while the boy matures into Orlando Bloom's Will Turner and
they stay loosely connected; he becoming a blacksmith, she already in
the rarefied circles of already being a Navy Governor's daughter.As a young adult, Swann is living a suffocating life on this
Jamaica-based outpost of the Empire; suffocating in every sense of the
word in as much her tight fitting corset apparel is forced upon her
just as much as her father's will seemingly is. Played with an ample
amount of both sneer and sympathy by Jonathan Pryce, daddy sees fit to
remind her that a certain Navy Commodore with a name like Norrington
would make a fine suitor. Elizabeth can only wish for something more,
something in the form of Turner with whom she would never stand a
chance but for her peers. Enter Johnny Depp's rambling Jack Sparrow; a
smooth talking, all-action although ultimately unorthodox pirate who
doesn't shoot first and ask questions later since he doesn't carry a
firearm and is too busy dropping a one-liner on you as he makes his
daring escape anyway. Certainly, when compared to the other pirates in
the jail cells, Sparrow strikes us as somewhat different; a man who
risks capture if it means saving a life but is cold enough to exploit
the life if it means saving his own. The initial incident launching
everyone into motion arrives when Geoffrey Rush's evil Captain of the
damned attacks the British fort and takes Elizabeth, something that
forces the previously at-odds Sparrow and Turner into going after her
by themselves.Structurally, the film spends too long in the port city of Port Royal
before finally launching itself on the gigantic quest encompassing
nautical traversing; un-dead enemies and a whole host of fight scenes.
Thirty minutes into the actual adventure, we want to go back to
Jamaica; where ramshackle characters with problems; desires and
feelings played out in an environment brought to screen intelligently
and energetically with a rich amount of costume and mise-en-scene for
the colonial era when Britain ruled the waves. The film is generally
problematic, with Depp and Bloom's buddy partnership not hitting the
mark and this ridiculous narrative falling in on itself when further
complications arise to do with the banishing of a curse. Once enough is
enough, the film begins to outstay its welcome; the score gets louder
and things that might've resembled human beings in the early part have
become action figures for a child's imagination during playtime. The
film is far from terrible and it's made with a boyish enthusiasm, but
with the money; design and, some might say, the cast quite evidently at
hand, enthusiasm and good intentions are not enough.

******
30 January 2013
6
I don't care much about Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the
Black Pearl. It's a simpleminded swashbuckling adventure film with
goofy pirates, inconsistent tone, too much comic relief and obnoxious
Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom.There are 2 things that made the first film enjoyable - Johnny Depp and
Geoffrey Rush. They gave goofy and very enjoyable performances that
carried this film for the most part. Sadly, Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow
shtick got old really fast. I also didn't mind the always silly
Jonathan Pryce. Rest of the cast were painfully bland or annoying.Another element that I enjoyed quite a bit was the overall look of the
film. The CGI effects look a bit dated now but the practical sets and
costumes look great. The action is very much in style of classic
swashbuckling films and the score perfectly sets the mood for high
adventure.And then there are the problems. First off, The Curse of the Black
Pearl is way too long. It needed to be about 20 minutes shorter. Here
it's a minor concern but the sequels get so long that they become
boring. Also there is the problem with nearly every single character being a
comedic relief. I get it that it's Disney film but you don't need so
much unfunny, annoying characters.Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley sink this film considerably. They
both can do a fine job if they are given a decent material, but here
they just drain all the energy out of it. They are no Antonio Banderas
and Catherine Zeta-Jones from Mask of Zorro.And the last problem is the tonal problems. It gets much worse in later
films but here you can a pattern appearing. People need to understand
that goofy and silly does not work with brutal murders... I hate films
that can't figure which tone they are going for. This ain't no
Windstruck or Porco Rosso that did these things well.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is acceptable
swashbuckling adventure film. It's mostly enjoyable because of Geoffrey
Rush and Johnny Depp and the outstanding production values. But there
too many irritants that distract me from enjoying it. I rather watch
Mask of Zorro because of the better cast, better actions and Catherine
Zeta-Jones.

******
9 June 2011
2
Boring. That's what it is. Just plain boring. It doesn't deserve the
hype it gets. I've seen the movie twice and was bored both times... and
I really wanted to like it because all of my friends did. The acting
might be okay. But I felt nothing for any of the characters or the
story. As someone who, again, gave even the likes of Troll 2 five
stars, the fact that I was more invested in a bad movie's story than
this supposed "good movie" is really saying something. It's a total
snoozefest. I honestly didn't find a single scene interesting. Even the
Doctor Who knockoff "The Curse of the Black Spot" was more entertaining
with better characters and a good story. No thanks. So that's my
synopsis, I barely remember what happens but I don't really care. I
didn't like it at all.

******
28 June 2006
6
I cannot help but think that this film could have been much better in
more capable hands. As others have noted, it runs way too long. Roger
Ebert rather astutely observed that somewhere in this 143 minute movie
could be a decent 90 minute movie; perhaps he is correct, though we
might never know. Gore Verbinski should re-edit this movie for a
director's cut and leave out about forty-five minutes; perhaps that
would help resolve at least some of its shortcomings. The acting is
nothing special, which is to be expected given the way the film plays
like a combination of a slapstick comedy and a children's movie. Johnny
Depp is a very good, serious actor, as evidenced in "Blow," "Ed Wood,"
"What's Eating Gilbert Grape," "Finding Neverland," etc., though I
didn't really like his performance in this film. He does much as much
can be expected to develop his character, though I cannot help but
wonder if he (along with the rest of the cast) considered this from the
onset as simply a paycheck because it appears many of the actors didn't
take it seriously and merely phoned in their performances. It doesn't
help that they didn't have much with which to work, either. I'm not
certain why the principle leads would sign on for two more entries to
this series, though money would again be the prime suspect.
Action-adventure movies can be fun and entertaining without being
shallow and resorting to clichéd tactics as this movie does; the recent
Harry Potter and Spider-man movies are good examples of movies that
successfully combine entertainment and action with competent,
intelligent scripting. Furthermore, it seems to me the makers of this
movie could not decide what the target audience for this movie would
be, and the result is that it appears to be intended for children, yet
is entirely too long to retain their attention and contains entirely
too much violence and too many gruesome effects for children. This
seems to be a problematic trademark for Verbinski, whose "Mousehunt"
(1997) seemed to be clearly intended for children, yet contained some
decidedly adult humor. I cannot really recommend a movie that has me
wishing it would end halfway through it, which this one did. That is
not to say it is bad or that it is dull because it is undoubtedly
ambitious and there are moments throughout the film, until the last
frames, which show undeniable sparks of energy. Some of the scenes work
well and the action is more than adequate. Also, we don't see very many
pirate movies any more, so it does have that going for it, you know,
which is nice. Ultimately, however, the film meanders about, loses
focus and is simply not good enough to warrant a viewing. With two more
movies on the way, perhaps there was enough material among this trilogy
that would have warranted making 1.5 or even 2 movies from the first
the one. I received the DVD as a present, watched it once and must say
I am not in a hurry to sit through it again. (However, I might skip to
the scenes with Keira Knightley, whose radiance is enough to lift any
film)

******
20 October 2005
6
Elizabeth Swan is captured by the pirates of the Black Pearl. Captain
Jack Sparrow and Will Turner go out to save her.As you can see, the storyline is nothing new. To add to that, Pirates
of the Caribbean had no inspiration, except for a Disney ride, so you
can't expect anything extraordinary. The movie, however, does offer
some pirate sword-fighting, adventure, and funny lines to make up for
that. However, the adventure isn't enough to hold the weights of a
close-to-two-hour-experience. The movie is fun, but forgettable to some people, and drags on too much
for more people. (like me)6.5/10

******
18 October 2005
7
...the thing about this movie is... if you haven't seen the ride, it's
cool. But if you have seen the ride, even better.What I would like to know, however, is does this mean that there are
going to be movies made from every single one of Disney's rides? And
then, will rides again be spawned from the movies?So we're stuck in a never ending cycle of Disney-to ride-To Movie-back
to ride.. and so on...Does anyone know of any other Disney rides being turned into movies?Does anyone know of any other themepark rides that were turned into
movies?

******
18 October 2005
7
I thoroughly enjoyed this very clever movie. It's a fun ride and I
really did appreciate Depp's unusual character.That said, this is no masterpiece. It is, rather, a very enjoyable and
expertly done piece of fluff and a rather long advert for Disneyland.
It's basically a lovingly rendered rehash of all the well-known clichés
of 80 years of swashbuckler films with a bit of "Sinbad the Sailor"
thrown in. This is like Ray Harryhausen (all hail!) would have done had
he CGI tools at his disposal.Pirates of the Caribbean is fine entertainment and it's certainly a far
better movie than the recent Star Wars efforts. But it's no
masterpiece. It pales in the wake of classic swashbucklers like
"Captain Blood" (Errol Flynn) or "Treasure Island" (the one with Jackie
Cooper and the Disney one with Robert Newton), or even the recent
"Master and Commander".Let's put POTC in the "fantasy" category. Within that context I would
rate it much higher than within this TOP 250 FILMS category. It is a
great fantasy film.As a "spoof" it's not in the same class as "Blazing Saddles" or "Young
Frankenstein" or "Love and Death", but it's very close and a job well
done.Good film. Rent it.

******
21 July 2005
6
I have to admit that I also really enjoyed this movie a lot in 2003
when it was showing at the cinema and I also thought it was one of the
best movies of this year. The strange thing is: I ve seen it again on
DVD now and it - for some reason I can not explain - rather bored me.
It has great actors, fantastic settings, but the story is not more than
"okay" (it has some far-fetched useless halfhearted twists in it) and
in the end one feels like having seen a teaser for Walt Disney parks
... and that s probably what the film actually is: a roller-coaster
ride with some narrative lengths (it s far too long for a real exciting
roller-coaster ride).Johnny Depp s acting is absolutely outstanding though (selfironical
overacted, rather camp without being really gay). I also believe that
Depp himself would not say that it s one of the best movies he played
in (hopefully not), but probably one of the best payed jobs he s done
(hopefully). Without Depp the movie would probably be quite boring and
"cheap" (in the meaning of "cheap tricks"), with Depp it s at least
well entertaining and particularly quite funny.At last: this is definitely not a movie one has to see twice. While
other movies develop a higher quality after being watched for the
second, third,... time this movie loses a lot of quality when seen for
the second time.6/10

******
27 June 2005
8
Yes, Johnny Depp walks away with the movie or playfully struts away, to
be more exact. He will get you through the first few viewings. Once
Depp recedes, temporarily, into the background, you see the work of the
good script by Terry Rossio and Ted Elliot(Aladdin, Shrek). The script
gives us not one, but two pairs of bickering buffoons, a ghost story, a
little romance, a little adventure, a lot of comedy, and a pirate
treasure hunt. It is unpredictable. This movie might have failed
without it's superbly game cast. Geoffrey Rush has almost as much fun
as Depp with several good lines. Jack Davenport nails the deadpan
British style of humor perfectly and is contrasted nicely by the
foppish Pryce. Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom are not given much to
do, but they make the most of their parts. Kevin McNally makes a fine
salty dog. Lee Arenberg and Mackenzie Cook steal every scene they are
in as a couple of silly pirate Abbott and Costello types with Agnes
Burnett and Giles New as their lesser soldier counterparts. The real
success of this movie is how it takes the old and makes it feel new
again.(monkey brings medallion to Barbossa with Jack on it's tail)Barbossa:
"Why thank ye, Jack." Jack: "No problem." Barbossa: "Oh, not you, we
named the monkey Jack."

******
8 November 2004
8
I recently rented Pirates of the Caribbean, and it was a great show.
The best thing about this movie is that it was very entertaining, and
it is easily the most entertaining movie I have seen in a long time.
This film has it all - humor, romance, thrills, action, mystery, and
suspense. I wish I had seen it in the theater, but the DVD was great
anyway.As far as the plot, I honestly wasn't really expecting anything too
detailed or deep. After all, this is a Disney film, and one based on a
ride at a theme park. However, there are several unexpected plot twists
and turns, and it's hard to know which people you're actually rooting
for in the film. The characters are interesting and they do some
unexpected things from time to time. The plot was much more interesting
and enjoyable than I imagined it would be.One thing that really impressed me was the CGI. I'm not a big fan of
computer-generated graphics, and especially when they're inserted into
live action films alongside human actors. But this was very well done -
as well-done as any film I've seen.Finally, a comment about where this movie ranks. Don't get me wrong -
this is a very entertaining show, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. I rate
this film pretty high on my own list, but I'm surprised to see it on
the IMDb Top 250 films of all time. It's a great show, but I don't
think it deserves a spot among the top 250 films of all time. Nothing
against this film, but I would think there would be at least 250 films
made since 1940 that would be better than this one.

******
14 October 2004
7
And I really mean it! I have absolutely no idea how this pirate movie
manages to enter the IMDb's Top 250 Movie List, but I guess most of you
viewers love The Curse of the Black Pearl for some good reasons.
However, I don't find it entirely revolutionizing in any sense. First of all, the plot's simply too straightforward in my taste (the
script is pretty cheesy and tiring as well) and like any typical
Hollywood movies, expect lots of the same old swashbuckling stuff and
highlighted special effects without being mesmerized by its overall
b-movie context. Aside of these criticisms, Johnny Depp is brilliant as
the goofy Jack Sparrow but the rest of the cast is just plain OK. The Curse of the Black Pearl seems to be a no-brainer and doesn't hold
my interest any longer now. If you want a quality pirate (or ship)
movie, I highly recommend you to watch 'Master and Commander: The Far
Side Of The World' instead. It's far better than this dire action
movie, for my sake.

******
4 September 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was the most amazing movie I have ever seen in
my entire life! It's a movie that can easily be watched over and over again without
getting old or boring.The acting is amazing as well as the plot!The costumes are amazing as well!The ENTIRE movie is AMAZING!You should definitely see this movie!WARNING: Watching this movie may get you obsessed withjohnny depp!


******
30 May 2004
8

Pirate movies have fallen on hard times as of late.  There hasn't been a
decent one since the mid-fifties.  Attempts to revive the genre have
generated a series of expensive flops like Cutthroat Island and Roman
Polanski's Pirates.  Despite the dismal track every ten years or so there is
yet another attempt to get it right. With the latest, Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl persistence is rewarded. Though not
on a level with Captain Blood or The Crimson Pirate, Curse is still is a
thoroughly enjoyable movie that successfully combines modern action with a
traditional sea saga.The Black Pearl is a ship with a cursed crew doomed to an undead existence
until they return all the Aztec gold they unwisely pilfered. After years of
ghostly plundering they manage to gather all save for the one piece
currently in the possession of the beautiful Elizabeth, the Royal Governor's
daughter. Can her true love, the pirate hating blacksmith Will, keep her
safe from the crew's boney clutches?  Or does she need the help of the
completely loony Captain Jack Sparrow?Sparrow is a hilarious addition to the Hollywood Pirate tradition. He is a
seadog sure to strike terror into the hearts of the fiercest scallywag
though not because of his dazzling swordplay.  Johnny Depp plays Sparrow as
if he has downed one too many grogs on the way to the gay pride parade. He
flounces, weaves and mumbles his way about the Caribbean absolutely sure
that he is the very model of a modern pirate captain. That his adversaries
aren't as sure of his seafaring abilities as he is doesn't register in his
hazy worldview.  Depp's Belle of the Poop Deck routine works fabulously. He
gives the movie a pixilated charm but if it's an old fashioned
shiver-me-timbers pirate you want there is Geoffrey Rush as Captain
Barbossa.  Rush `arrhs' it up for all he's worth and even makes you feel a
little sorry for the murderous old sea dog.   As Depp and Rush keep the glorious tradition of ham acting alive others in
the cast are left struggling to keep up.  While Orlando Bloom seems stogy as
Will the insanely beautiful Keira Knightley is in no danger of being
overshadowed.  Her Elizabeth comes across as the most competent character in
the movie. You get the feeling she could have sorted the plot out quicker
without the blundering help of Sparrow and Will.  The rest of the cast is
filled with a great assortment of character actors who fill out their
colorful parts nicely.  In fact, it's safe to say it's the performers who
make this movie despite the extensive special effects on
display.Curse suffers from the usual modern summer blockbuster problems what with
frenzied editing, sloppy plotting and a leaden approach to comic timing.
Complicating matters is an out of control sound design.  Background creaks,
booms and clangs are blasted out of proportion and every footfall thumps
like a brontosaurus tread. All this drowns out the actors so potentially
funny lines are lost.  Art direction is also problematic. For example, the
skeletal crew is so stuffed with detail that between the quick cuts and
frenzied pace they come across as a perambulating blob.  A further drawback
is the cinematography. For some reason the normally sunny Caribbean looks as
bleak and cold as the North Atlantic. While all this is annoying it
shouldn't stop you from seeing Curse. It's a charming movie filled with the
sort of enjoyably preposterous performances you rarely see nowadays.

******
15 May 2004
8

Due to circumstances beyond my control, I have watched this film three
times
in the past six months. To be frank, it's taken me that many viewings to
get
to grips with the plot, and to appreciate that the main star is not in
fact
Johnny Depp - who seems, albeit understandably,  to have emerged as the
new
Valentino - but the scriptwriter. Those wonderful understated supporting
performances, notably by the Tweedledum and Tweedledee of the British
navy,
were enabled - as was the virtuoso and richly-imagined representation of
Jack Sparrow - by their witty and precisely crafted speech.  And as for
Depp, are we all absolutely sure it isn't his character we've fallen in
love
with? After all, I don't remember anyone saying that Edward Scissorhands
was
the sexiest man in the world.

******
21 March 2004
7

I love pirates but I thought this was a pretty disappointing movie.  Sure,
Depp was great--he usually is.  His lines were some of the best in the film.
 I did enjoy the boats and sets a lot.  
However, I did not like Orlando Bloom and found him dull and irritating.
Keira Knightley was clearly just chosen as a pretty face, since she wasn't
too exciting, either.  It's a shame to see someone as talented as Depp
paired up with two such inadequate actors. 
The film itself was long and without real substance.  I did enjoy the
"cameos" from specific parts of the WDW ride, though. Oh well.  I'd watch it again, but probably with the sound
off.


******
22 February 2004
7

This is an excellently made movie except for the script. There is one
pleasurable twist, but that is not enough to carry the already predictable
plot. Also, there are many lines which detract from the adventure and make
it almost as much a comedy. That's fine if done in moderation (in my
opinion), but this is done to excess and makes the movie appear more as a
kid's adventure flick than an attempt at making a story.This movie is only worth watching to see Depp's performance. Johnny Depp is
superb as Capt. Jack Sparrow - utterly convincing. Yet the rest of the cast
seems contrived and fail to carry any weight. They act as if this is a "made
for TV movie." It could be the directing, but then how would one explain the
same directing that Depp received?The mechanical special effects were ok (6/10), while the rest: production,
lighting, photography were excellent(9/10) and the computer graphics were
superb (10/10). They brought something new to computer graphics - well
articulated skeletons as well as the immediate switching between body and
bones in different light. Overall, in my opinion, the movie earned a
7/10.-ZafoidPS: A slight node to political correctness occurs in a few scenes thus
downgrading the already flawed movie. Definitely see it for
Depp.-Z

******
14 February 2004
7
So many things could have gone wrong with this film. (And
to hear tale from some of the commentary, many did). I
mean c'mon...four writers create a script based upon a
theme park ride? This could have all the charm of a
film based on a video game like such classics as "Super
Mario Brothers" and "Street Fighter."Now to be fair I haven't seen either of those nor ever will,
but
neither had Johnny Depp at the helm. Much has been made
about his swishbuckling here, but I dare anyone to see
this
and not keep his/her eye on the Sparrow. In the commentary,
he and director Gore Verbinski talked about some of Depp's
original ideas for the character...including a prosthetic
nose.
Hmmm, maybe that's where the Keith Richards' idea originated?
To see the best use of a faux nose so far, see Vincent
D'Onofrio
in the excellent "Salton Sea."But back to these high seas, high crime and high entertainment.
Look the ride itself had to be made suitably accommodating
to
put a lot of different butts in seats, and so was this film. But
think
of all the other action/adventure blockbusters that simply
went
bust.I recently saw "The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen"
which
despite Alan Moore's impetus wound up extremely ordinary.
And we had to elect Schwarzenegger as governor just to
prevent him from making any more films after "The Rise
of
the Machines."So for the people who complain about the plot, to make
such
a popcorn movie, you have to traffic in larger-than-life
myths
that *need* to be familiar. Lover's need to be separated,
one
must promise her love to another to redeem her true love.
Toss in an absent father (Bootstrap is about as dead as
Luke Skywalker's dad was.) Allow there to be a chase and
make sure the original chase is after the wrong goal or
gal
or gal's blood...and your on your way.So the key here, like the ride itself is not in revolutionary
twists along the way but an attention to detail as we are
moved along. The pirates' code and parley, splendid
spectral special effects, the tie-ins to scenes from the
ride. Little bits of the dialog..."Robert's your uncle,
Fanny's
your aunt"..."Welcome to the Caribbean, love"..."Impersonating
a cleric of the Church of England..."I want you to know that
I
was rooting for you mate"..."Cotton, he says you missed
a spot." (As spoken by a mute man's parrot and translated
by
the first mate.)This film is more than clever enough, and looks gorgeous,
even on the small screen...though I and you imagined reader
should have seen this on the big screen. The use of CGI
was
less "siege" and more "see." Verbinski largely forsook his
first
name and avoided  egregious amounts of gore.Yes it's as inflated as a Macy's Parade balloon, but its
the
smaller things that keep this afloat. I'll give it one
stars
for each of the seas, and hope we don't get half as many
sequels...7/10By the way, the DVD I got from NetFlix was only IBM PC
compatible for the bonus features. Not only Captain
Barbossa is a fan of Apples, raise the flag for a MacIntosh
Mutiny!

******
14 February 2004
7

A movie based on a Disney ride? You gotta be kiddin' me!! But somehow, they
did it...a thoroughly entertaining film with a surprisingly funny script and
great over-the-top performances by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush swashin'
and bucklin' their way through this send-up of the Errol Flynn genre...Maybe
a little CGI-heavy, but Walt would have loved it...And as for 17-year old
Keira Knightley, her pirate ship has most assuredly come in...Some fun DVD
extras (short history of piracy---the original Disney ride
history)...Extravagant costumes, sets and make-up but the performances don't
get buried, and that's as much as you can ask for in this type of film...My
only fear is that if this catches on ("Haunted Mansion", etc.), they'll be
making a movie about the concession stands at the park before too
long..."AAAAARGGGHHHHH MATEY!!!!", indeed!!

******
11 February 2004
5

Johnny Depp's withering pirate parody is probably the only reason to watch
this swashbuckler update, but he's been better elsewhere and his performance
is typical of the film's major problem, namely the slurred, mumbling accents
that most of the cast has adopted. It makes for difficult viewing: the
needlessly complicated plot is hampered by an inability to understand much
of what is going on (although the basic outline is elemental to anyone who's
ever seen a film of the genre); you have to strain to hear explanations for
the more mystical aspects of the story. It's a very generic piece of work;
the director, Gore Verbinski, doesn't seem to have the ability to create any
real tension or action sequences that arouse much excitement and
consistently allows the set pieces to be interrupted by long stretches of
exposition (thanks to a wordy script by Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio that
could have used a few decent jokes). Verbinski chooses to keep the focus on
Depp and while Depp is always welcome whenever he's onscreen, he has trouble
connecting with the rest of the cast, which, though it includes the
incredibly hammy Geoffrey Rush, has nowhere near the acting bravura he has.
The remainder of the cast includes Orlando Bloom (who fails to impress after
`The Lord Of The Rings'), Jonathan Pryce and Keira Knightley.


******
8 February 2004
9

I think pirates of the carribean is graficly a great movie. It amazes me
what they can do with a computer.
I laught with the sketeltons and i think it is the best movie starring
pirates ever!

******
6 February 2004
5

It is rather sad since this movie showed a LOT of potential in its
beginning, yet soon enough it became yet another kitschy Disney
movie.First the good: The performance of Depp was wonderful, even if a tiny bit
too ecstatic. The visuals and the sounds were, as you can expect from
Disney, amazing as well and reminded me of LOTR visuals somewhat. Also,
surprisingly, the movie has also quite a sophisticated
story.{ MAY CONTAIN SOME SPOILERS BELOW }Very quickly, though, the movie dropped very low. The scenes became
repetitive and dull. I grew tired of all these sword slashings, first with
men, then with shields. In fact, there is just TOO MUCH fighting in this
movie. It isn't the stunning fighting of Matrix/LOTR though where you grew
more excited every minute, it is more like the regular Disney fighting of,
"Aww he dropped the barrel and it dropped on the skeleton, ain't it funny
folks?". All the fighting scenes are FULL with Disney cliches like this
one.{ REAL SPOILERS NOW }In fact, ALL the movie grows to be more and more one big cliche as it spins
towards its grand finale cliche end. Starting from the silly sentences
(BadGuy: "Say good-bye!", barrel falls on him, GoodGuy: "Good-bye!"),
continuing with even sillier sentences that I could guess ten seconds before
the actors said them and ending with the super sticky, happy "and they lived
happily ever after" end. I hoped they will broke SOME of the sweetness by
letting SOMEONE die but apparently they decided to be the STEREOTYPE of
cliche Disney movies.Oh well, another 2 hours bit the dust.

******
3 February 2004
4

A BRIEF SUMMARY: Elizabeth Swann, the daughter of the new island governor,
is traveling by ship with her father to their new home. The come upon a
ship, ransacked and burned by pirates. Suddenly, Elizabeth spots an
unconscious boy, Will Turner, in the water. When Will is brought onto the
ship and laid upon the deck, Elizabeth spots a gold medallion around his
neck. Fearing the authorities will arrest the boy as a pirate, Elizabeth
steals the medallion. Years later, when Will and Elizabeth grow up, they
share an adventure involving the medallion, an unearthly pirate crew and
`the curse of the Black Pearl'.
 `All opinions are vanity ' including my own. Well, I guess I better
prepare myself to be clobbered once again for trashing a movie `everybody
loves'. `Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl' is most
illogical movie I've seen since `Lost in Space'.  `Lost in Space' at least
had three shapely women in body-hugging space suits. PCCBP has Johnny Depp.
Johnny has turned in some really good performances (`Edward Scissorhands,'
`Ed Wood,' `Sleepy Hollow,' and, especially, `Don Juan DeMarco') but his
loose, effete `Jack Sparrow' is more `Captain Morgan' than Captain Kidd.
That is, the rum is doing most of the acting.
WARNING: SPOILERS
Well, let's see, all the crew of the Black Pearl except Jack Sparrow, BUT
INCLUDING WILL'S FATHER, have been cursed for stealing Aztec gold. As part
of their curse, food turns to ashes; and, while they cannot die, in the
moonlight they are clearly rotting corpses. HELLO!  If they cannot die, HOW
COULD THEY KILL WILL'S FATHER? If they are really rotten corpses, WHY DIDN'T
THEY DIE AS SOON AS THE CURSE WAS LIFTED? I can understand why Will wasn't
cursed, BUT WHY WASN'T ELIZABETH? Oh, because she did it to save Will, THEN
WHY WAS JACK SPARROW CURSED? Oh, because he was Captain of the Black Pearl;
DO YOU REALLY THINK A CURSE WOULD BE SO SELECTIVE? I can understand why the
Black Pearl crew became rotting corpses when they were cursed. They spent a
period of time suffering from starvation and thirst, but WHY DID JACK
IMMEDIATELY BECOME A ROTTING CORPSE? 
Oh yes, I've heard, `Forget the logic and enjoy the fun.' How much fun is
there in an adventure movie where the only mortals you care about are so
central to the plot you KNOW they cannot be killed? I enjoyed the production
values, the music and the performances, but I never forgot this is a BAD
pirate movie. If you really want to have fun watching a good pirate movie,
see `The Crimson Pirate' or `Swashbuckler.' If you insist on seeing a bad
pirate movie, see `Cutthroat Island'. At least it makes
sense.


******
2 February 2004
9

Johnny Depp stars as Captain Jack Sparrow, in this film that was created
from Walt Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean amusement at Disney World in
Florida.Directed by Gore Verbinski, the film tells the story of Captain Jack
Sparrow, a humorous, egotistical,  unpredictable  pirate, who is attempting
to catch the Black Pearl'  a pirate ship `with black sails that's crewed
by the damned and captained by a man so evil, that hell itself spat him back
out'. After saving the Governor's daughter Elizabeth (Keira Knightly) from
drowning, Sparrow is arrested as a pirate and taken to jail where he awaits
the gallows. In search of lost Cortez gold, the Black Pearl and a motley
crew of pirates (led by Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush)) raid the town and
kidnap Elizabeth. The blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), in love with
Elizabeth springs Sparrow from jail in return for his help in tracking down
the Black Pearl and saving Elizabeth.Depp's own quirkiness brings Captain Jack Sparrow to life, continuing his
tradition of portraying rather unusual roles. Bloom and Knightly play their
roles wonderfully, while Rush, so versatile in his character portrayal,
presents himself as an enjoyable bad guy' to watch. Pirates of the
Caribbean  Curse of the black pearl was filmed on location around St.
Vincent and the Grenadines, providing a spectacular backdrop of crystal
clear blue waters and picturesque islands. The special effects were created
by Industrial Light & Magic and as usual, blend into the live-action
seamlessly. Merge all of this together with the wonderful musical score by
Hans Zimmer (who created the music for Gladiator and numerous other films)
and you have a really enjoyable experience.Obviously you can't have a film about cursed pirates without a little
horror, and although most violence is implied and not shown in this film,
this is the first Disney film ever, to be rated PG-13 in the United States,
and M in Australia. This film is definitely a fun, adventurous family film,
but some children under fourteen may find the occasional scene within this
film disturbing.

******
2 February 2004
7

I half expected Errol Flynn to appear at any time. Johnny Depp, Orlando
Bloom and Kiera Knightley head a fine cast in this rollicking adventure
about a cursed pirate crew and their quest to undo the curse. I don't want
to give the story away too much, but suffice it to say that Bloom figures
prominently if unwillingly in that quest. Plenty of action and adventure
along with excellent at-sea shots make this a well executed film. All in
all, a great time!

******
2 February 2004
5

First, the good parts. The film is entertaining with some good pirate action
sequences and Johnny Depp does a fabulous job. For a Hollywood pirate action
film it isn't too shabby at all.But...that being said there is very little extraordinary about it. Instead
it is simply average. The skeleton crew is not very menacing at all - so why
did they have to be skeletons? The movie would have worked better with
another 'plot' without the curse and just focusing on actual human pirates.The plot is predictable and full of holes. The film could've ended LONG
before it did. Most all the roles were cardboard cut outs. There is the
handsome hero that is willing to stick his neck out for the girl especially
because he isn't encumbered by any societal status. There is the rich suitor
that is stuck up and walks so straight and narrowly that he is more robotic
than human and thus obviously not the man for the heroine. And finally the
heroine that despite living in the past is somehow endowed with all sorts of
concepts of the independent modern woman. 

******
21 January 2004
6

One for the kids as this is certainly not adult fodder.  The special
effects
are excellent, the story is weak and Johnny Depps accent is something to
ponder over.  Seriously overlong in running time even the kids would get
bored before too long.

******
15 January 2004
7

I would have given this an B+ if they had cut about 30 min's from the middle
of the movie. PotC has its faults, numerous ones if you care to dig deep,
but it is by far one of the most entertaining movies of the summer 2003. Johnny Depp does a superb job as Jack Sparrow. The character showcases his
versatility in one of the most refreshing characters I have seen in a long
time. And newcomer Keira Knightly shines onscreen in her role as Elizabeth.
It seems as if Orlando Bloom was may have been left in the dust in this film
by his dashing costars. His acting was rather one dimensional, and
suspiciously similar to his character of Legolas in "The Lord of the Rings".
But who's paying attention to his acting, anyways?  Overall, this pirate
movie is non stop laughs, action and adventure. Savvy?  Rating: B


******
12 January 2004
10

The writers did a great job on the script, as well as the
actors/actresses
did on the set. I didn't actually understand it until the second time I
watched it. Then it finally hit me that this movie had the best twists
and
catches.

******
7 January 2004
9

I thought Pirates of the Caribbean was a great film.It was very well put
together and had a great plot. It had great scenery and props. The actors
were perfect for there parts. They had just the right accents and the
right
looks. I would DEFINITELY recommend this film to anyone.


******
2 January 2004
10

I didn't think I would like POTC when I went to see it but I couldn't have
been more wrong! The movie was pure entertainment from start to finish
filled with humor, action, and adventure. Once again Johnny Depp does what
he does so well by getting lost in the character of the infamous Jack
Sparrow. Depp is sensational, this is why he's the best actor out there
right now. Newcomer Kiera Knightley was a pretty face and very good in POTC
and Orlando Bloom fit the bill proving his talent past Legolas of LOTR. And
of course, Geoffey Rush was just so fun to hate as the grimy and nasty
Barbossa, a superb villain, the summer's best villain. Gore Verbinski is on
his way with The Ring and POTC, even though he sadly looks not to come back
for the 2005 sequel to POTC. This movie is great, forget Cold Mountain and
everything else, this film is the best of 2003. The only film I could do
this to this to this year. A perfect 10/10.

******
2 January 2004
6

With all of the buzz about this movie, it is possible I expected too much.
With that said, I don't get the big deal about this movie.Johnny Depp is great. He does his best to hold the movie together, but even
his performance couldn't save it in my eyes. First off the special effects weren't all that spectacular. It was cool to
see the people turn into skeletons when they passed in and out of the moon
light, but when you had a chance to really look at them it was sort of
cheesy.The biggest problem with this movie is that Disney couldn't decide whether
this advertisement for one of their rides (marketing brilliance by the way,
no matter how disgusting it is) should be for kids or adults. In the end, it
didn't fit for anyone. It was too violent for little kids with scenes of
people getting killed with swords and their throats slit by daggers. It was
WAY too hokey for adults. Maybe it works for 13-year-olds that haven't seen the special effects in the
Matrix or Lord of the Rings.My advice, don't get your hopes up based on what the majority is saying
about this one.

******
2 January 2004
7

When i was at the cinema waiting to see The Matrix Reloaded, a trailer
appeared before me for a certain pirate movie. The first thing which went
through my head was, oh God, please not another pirate movie, especially
one
made for the kids during the summer holidays. My fears were confirmed when
the Disney logo appeared at the end of the trailer. There was no way in
hell
I was going to see this movie. Then, people started telling me about a
certain guy called Johnny Depp. Now, I have never seen a movie with Johnny
Depp in it, so I wasn`t really moved when people told me that he was the
best thing in this movie. Anyway, lately a friend and I decided to rent
the
movie just to see what it was like. I watched it and I must say, it IS a
Disney pirate movie made for the kids for summer. However, it is also a
very
entertaining movie, in parts. I can see why it has done very well at the
box
offices around the world and why people keep going back to see it. If you
haven`t seen this movie, the fact that it is a Disney movie should not
discourage you, and the fact that it has pirates in it, well, in all
fairness it is one of the best pirate movies I have seen, well worth a
try,
you won`t be disappointed. 

******
31 December 2003
7

"Pirates" is a fun adventure film that breaks out of its "based on a
Disneyland ride" chains and delivers a near-perfect summer family
blockbuster.The film is aided tremendously by the casting, especially Depp and Geoffrey
Rush. All of the performances are very good, and it adds immeasurably to the
quality of the film. The production is also very well done, right up to the
great visual effects. However, one let down was the music, which features a
pounding quality heard in many Bruckheimer action films.The characters are brought to life with the skill of the "Indiana Jones" or
"Harry Potter" movies, yet somehow the overall film seems to be just a few
notches of "The Mummy" and "Tomb Raider" movies. Unlike the latter movies,
however, it seems a sequel or two could really help lift "Pirates" out of
that same category and into the heights reached by "Indiana
Jones".The verdict: about as good of a summer blockbuster as could be hoped
for.


******
29 December 2003
6

I thought the first forty-five minutes were very cleverly written, and
Johnny Depp is inarguably a scene-stealer in this film.  But the
cumbersome
plot turns absurd, and as soon as all the characters' energies onscreen
are
diverted toward the task of lifting an ancient curse (culminating in a set
of dreary sea battles and chases), I lost interest.  Honestly, Depp is
probably what made the last half of this overly long film bearable for
me.I am disappointed that Disney released such a violent movie in such
kid-friendly packaging.  There are a lot of callous murders of innocent
townspeople here.  And to put so much work into producing a film that
glamorizes pirates--a word that has little meaning outside of rape,
murder,
robbery, and destruction--is a questionable endeavor.  Think twice before
you let your kids watch this one, unless they're already desensitized
little
bloodlusters.

******
27 December 2003
9

Pirates of the Caribbean
starring Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, that girl, and that guy, and a
monkey.Now, before beginning this review, I'd like to point out that this is a
Disney movie - yes, the same people who brought us Finding Nemo and
Pocahontas. Indeed. So I figured it could go either way, but would
probably
get bad reviews and bomb at the box office. Imagine my surprise then,
when I
arrived at the movie theatre and the movie was sold out for the 6:25
show.
Who goes to see a movie on a Wednesday night?? So I bought my ticket for
the
6:55 show and sat in the theatre for forever, waiting excitedly for the
film
to begin.
Johnny Depp is hot. Seriously. Big hottie. Especially when you add eye
makeup, cool hair, a good outfit, an excellent accent and a cool hat.
Plus,
he was crazy. As evident in Fear and Loathing, he plays crazy pretty
well.
The CGI in the film was very good as well - people turning into skeletons
and all. Well done. I'm not an Orlando Bloom fan really, seeing as I
didn't
see either of the Lord of the Rings. So I didn't know what to expect from
him, but luckily his role was monstrously overshadowed by Depp. The chick
in
this movie, whatever her name is, wasn't as good. Her accent needed a
little
work, she made horrible facial expressions, and it seems as though she
got
all the crappy lines. The plot was classic Disney - one twist towards the
end that would shock the hell out of little kids, and they spelled out
the
entire plot for you as it happens. Sometimes that's good, when.. say..
you're too busy drooling over Johnny Depp to pay attention.. but still.
You
have to take that with a grain of salt (why isn't it pepper?) because
it's
Disney.
Okay. So overall I'd give the movie.. well.. a B+/A-.. it wasn't amazing,
but it *was* hilarious, and there were good fight scenes and good cgi and
it
wasn't boring, and very very good Johnny Depp. I think it's one of my
favorite movies for him (of course, I haven't seen him in many movies I
actually like - he favors scripts that make me drowsy just hearing the
titles), so that's my final answer. B+/A-. Savvy?

******
26 December 2003
7

I have just watched the dvd of this movie and unfortunately it left me
feeling it was not as good as I had hoped.The film is a bit too long and for periods nothing really seems to happen.
At least 30 minutes could have been trimmed to make it a tighter, more
thrilling event.Depp is the star of the show, playing Captain Sparrow with aplomb, and is
well supported by Bloom, Rush and Keira Knightley, looking very dishy and a
future star in the making.The effects were excellent, and the fight scene at the end where the cursed
pirates pass in and out of moonlight(and passing from skeleton to full
person)is extremely good.It just left me feeling it could have been done a bit better, perhaps with a
stronger storyline. Still, I seem to be in the minority, as the film has made a mint and a
second installment is on the way next year.6.5/10

******
23 December 2003
4

Depp looks good, but he always looks good. He alone makes the movie, and
that's not lasting for the movie, only lasting for Depp. This is a tragic
disappointment to those who love pirates. It follows the recent trends of
dark ghost stories stylistic eye candy, but underneath it's empty.
Someone
said to me that it's going to be a classic, only because pirate stories
tend
to be. Some people can't see the forest for the trees.

******
12 December 2003
5

I could have accepted this movie in all its pseudo-mediocrity as being
enjoyable. Not good. Not a movie to watch over and over again, but
enjoyable. But then, the fact that it is so overrated only made me so very
disappointed."Arg", and now, I will sit back and prepare myself for the inevitable
swashbuckling backlash of pirate fanatics. 

******
8 December 2003
8

Make no mistake; this is a true Hollywood movie, through and through.  But
it's an entertaining one, to be sure.  I was skeptical of its integrity when
I learned it was "based" on the Disneyland ride, let alone a Disney film. 
But again, it does entertain from start to finish and despite moments of
cheesy humor, it's serious enough to satisfy those seeking a more "real"
approach.  For the most part, it's historically correct.  Thankfully, they
used fictitious characters instead of tarnishing the reputations of true
high sea swashbucklers such as Ed Teach (Blackbeard) and John Rackham
(Calico Jack).Depp pulls off a convincing character in Jack Sparrow, especially when you
think he based the character on Keith Richards (mannerisms, hair and all). 
Rush also shines as Barbossa, while Bloom and Knightley fulfill their roles
fittingly, though their performances are hardly outstanding.  This has more
to do with the script than their abilities.  The cinematography and CG
effects are outstanding and very convincing.Another thing this film does pull off well is character development.  They
successfully illustrate 8-10 mainstay characters (lead and supporting)
without bogging the story down or leaving things incomplete.  This is quite
rare in a film and I was pleased at how well it was pulled
off.All in all, if you haven't seen this film, do so.  Though you may not be
blown away, you should at least be entertained.


******
4 December 2003
7

Acting was decent, though I was expecting more of the Jack Sparrow
character
after reading all of the reviews.  Special effects were good too.  This
was
certainly a visually stunning film.  Overall a 7 out of
10.

******
27 November 2003
10

This was a really great movie with two excellent actors...Johnny Depp
and
Orlando Bloom. I loved every minute of it and can't wait to buy it on DVD.
I'm thrilled they're making POC 2!!!  If you haven't seen this one
yet...don't rent it, just buy the DVD when it's out. You won't regret it.


******
27 November 2003
10

This was by far the greatest movie I have ever had the honor to gaze upon,
and I have seen a lot of movies. Johnny Depps winning personality and
talent
was perfect for this movie, and Orlando Bloom's career is starting off on
the right foot being in both the Lord of the Rings movies and in Pirates
of
the Caribbean. Kira Knightly also shows incredible talent and should be a
promising actress. I'll admit the only reason I went to see the actual
movie
was because I'm a Depp fanatic and also a big Orlando Bloom fan, and I
expected the movie to be boring, because I didn't know what it was about.
But i was so wrong, it was AMAZING, and I recommend everyone see this
movie.
It is good for all people because it was a comedy, love, drama, action,
horror, and family movie all in one amazing little package. I saw this
movie
4 times and intend to be first in line at blockbuster to buy it. That is
all
I have to say- oh and vote for this movie-it should be in the top 50, not
near the end of the list.

******
26 November 2003
9

Ok, I'm not much for the Disney engine but I do have to admit that I really
enjoyed Pirates of the Caribbean if for no other reason than Johnny Depp's
wonderful performance.The film itself is the usual action fair with aggravating editing and
impossibilities galore. The effects were very well done and were the first
in a while to really make me think "how'd they do that?".A film like this, though, doesn't rely on plot or depth or anything like
that. It relies on a feeling of adventure and fun. And darn it all, I had
fun. I had more of a good time at this film than any film I can recall in
recent memory and think that Depp's performance of Jack Sparrow deserves
every bit of acclaim it's received and more.I'm not too keen on a Pirates 2, but if Jack Sparrow is back, I'll be there
Maties!!!***.5 / ****

******
26 November 2003
10

There has rarely been a film that I wanted to watch 2 times in 1 day..but
this is definitely one of the few.  There was just something about the
movie
that draws you in.  The acting for one is great.  I thought Johnny Depp
was
hilarious..just the way he walked and talked..but it fit the character
perfectly and really made him stand out.  He couldn't have done a better
job.  And Orlando Bloom..besides the fact that he's a great actor is of
course yummy as always and apparently has great tastes in movies (first
LOTR
and now this).  It's nice to see Hollywood producing movies that don't
have
the same feeling of 5000 movies before them.  Definitely a
10/10.

******
25 November 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean has passed up all of my other favorite movies.  I
saw it 5 times in the movie theater, and my father told me that I wasn't
allowed to see it anymore.  This movie was very well done.  Casting was
great, and slipping some clips in from the ride at Disney Land was
brilliant.

******
23 November 2003
9

This movie quite simply forced me to enjoy myself in a theater more than I
have in years.  Between Johnny Depp playing quite possibly the coolest
pirate in the world, an excellent story, amazing visuals, astounding sword
fighting, and roll in the aisles comedy - it is what a faithful movie going
audience deserves.  I will see it again and again and I suggest you do the
same.

******
23 November 2003
10

It's a well recived movie, excpecialy today when this kind of movies has
almost dissapeared and the ones that are still made are eithr for children
or performed by really bad actotos and have a boring story. This one is
just
perfect, Jhonny Deep plays the role of a pirat excellent, adding a little
humor to the plot. The same can be said about the others, that really
transpute the viewer into that long gone world and leave us with a smile
on
our face.

******
17 November 2003
9

Action! Keira Knightley! Adventure! A very dashing, charming Orlando Bloom!
Keira Knightley! A god-like performance by the god-like Johnny Depp, as
Captain Jack Sparrow, played like a drunken drag queen (in a good way)!
Laughs! Keira Knightley! Geoffrey Rush as the perfect evil henchmen! Chills!
Spills! A monkey! Keira Knightley! Beautiful drool-worthy special effects by
ILM! Swordfights! Cannonfire! Keira Knightley! Lots and lots of pirate
thugs! At least one guy says "ARRR!"! Fun for all ages! Ghost pirates! A
ghost monkey! Did I mention the very very very hot and talented Keira
Knightley?Well if all that doesn't sell you, nuts to you, because I loved this
film!

******
17 November 2003
10

*Spoiler*
This was an amazing film with superb acting from Johnny Depp and Orlando
Bloom. Geoffrey Rush also delivered an amazing performance, and although
Keira Knightley was good, I felt the character could have been used more.
The plot wasn't amazing, but definately not far off amazing! The Black
Pearl
Curse was a new concept and I felt it had been written wonderfully. Johnny
Depp, I feel, was put on this Earth to be Captain Jack Sparrow! Orlando
Bloom proved fantastically that he can do more than gracefully jump around
as an elf, and i think that we can expect to see great work from him in
the
future. Geoffrey Rush just can't seem to go wrong at the moment, and, for
me, he definatley brought in some of the more traditional Pirate feel
(with
the occasional Ooooh's and Arrr's!). The director and producer (Verbinski
and Bruckheimer) have done a wonderful job as have the script writers and
actors. A feel good movie that is everything a pirate movie should be and
more! A definate 10/10 for me. Something to watch again and again (and
again!)

******
16 November 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is the best movie
I've ever seen! If you haven't seen it then GO SEE IT NOW!!! It's so funny
and yet it still has plenty of room left over for serious parts. I enjoyed
every 143 minutes of it and not only because of the cute guys in it! I
mean,
any movie with both Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp has got to be good but
this movie has really over done itself. I can't think of even one little
bad
thing about it. It is simply Awesome! I'm going to go buy it on DVD as
soon
as it comes out and I suggest that you do too! ^_^

******
12 November 2003
10

I personally enjoyed this film more than many I've seen this year.  Gore
Verbenski is a wonderful director, and I must say that this type of movie
was not expected from him.  Johnny Depp is a world-class actor and he did
a
world-class job.  He is truly gifted, able to conform to many different
roles.  I give this movie three and a half mutated thumbs way, way up, and
I
reccomend it to anyone who calls himself a "movie lover."

******
12 November 2003
10

I absolutely loved this movie!!  Johnny Depp was incredible as Cpt. Jack
Sparrow.  As with most roles..he makes it his own.  If you want a movie
with
action/adventure, laughs and a bit of romance..then you must see this
movie.
I can't wait to own it on dvd.

******
11 November 2003
10

The acting: brilliant. The action: CGI at it's finest. This is PG-13 for
the
skeleton crew and it's possibility of provoking nightmares in younger
children. If you have kids that are 10 and up, you won't mind sharing the
couch. There's no blood. All of the death and violence that you know has
to
be in a movie like this is so tastefully done it's almost shocking in
this
day of blood by the gallon. Beautifully filmed and scored, you won't want
to
leave your seat for anything. This is a wonderful movie from start to
finish. Pirates is completely unexpected in it's eloquence and detail.
Too
many films take their big budgets and blow the film, while this one shows
them what they should have done. To say we can't wait until Pirates 2
comes
out would be an understatement. We are eagerly awaiting it's release and
once you see this one, you will, too.

******
11 November 2003
10

This was a very good movie.  Johnny Depp is indescribable as Captain Jack
Sparrow.  He brings humor and charm to what could have been a
two-dimensional stock character.  Orlando Bloom proves that he can do
more
than just stand around looking pretty and shooting arrows.  His Will
Turner
is dashing and will set many ladies' hearts aflutter.  I, for one, look
forward to seeing his future work.  Geoffrey Rush seems to be having a
wonderful time as the dastardly and evil Captain Barbossa.  Keira
Knightley
makes a spirited Elizabeth Swann.  She is not just a damsel in distress;
she
gets to take part in the action quite a bit.  Jack Davenport was good as
the
honorable Commodore Norrington.  He seemed to really care for Elizabeth,
and
want her to be happy.  In another film, he probably would have been the
hero, but Elizabeth had to end up withSPOILERSPOILERWill Turner.The supporting characters are hysterical.  The two bumbling British
soldiers
and their pirate counterparts made me laugh every time they were on
screen.
I only had two issues with this movie.  It got a little too long towards
the
end; how many battle do you really need?  (although I'll admit I still
enjoyed it immensely!)  Also, Jonathan Pryce was sorely underused.  There
were many times when his role as Governor Swann could have developed into
so
much more, but they were never utilized.Overall, this movie was very exciting and fun.  A definite for multiple
viewings!

******
10 November 2003
10
This film is full of humor, action and special effects, basically what
everybody loves in films. Johnny Depp displays another superb character to
go with his other creations such as 'Edward Scissor-hands' and 'Sleepy
Hollow'. Of course, Orlando is a young actor and has done some tremendous
work for 'Lord of the Rings', i don't think this is the best we've seen
him
but he can only get better, and i believe he will. This flick has a great
fight scene at the end between Depp and Rush and the score just makes it
so
energised and keeps your eyes stuck to the screen. I truly say, if you
ever
get the "Oppotune-moment", watch it.

******
9 November 2003
10

This movie is GREAT!!! The fighting scenes get a little old but other than
that it is great!! watch for the scenes that they imitated from the ride
in
Disneyland!! and stay the credits are finished to see the extra
scene!!

******
8 November 2003
10

Funny, funny, funny!
Nerve tingling action and adventure!
Romantic Romance!
Movie has a spunky girl character who doesn't talk like a little girl, is
not afraid to step out of her place, doesn't have ten million layers of
makeup, and isn't the last one to move when someone needs
help!
Excellent, blood chilling special effects!
Kooky, yet clever Jack Sparrow!
Adventurous, brave, daring, yet pure-hearted Will!
Best movie ever (all my sympathy to those who have never seen
it)!


******
7 November 2003
10

The movie was the uppermost and uplifting, vigorously powerful.The "title" fits the movie, and it explained the "title".The actors/actress, were incredibility virtuoso (regarding their
acting).The "humor" was always at the right time.The "visual" effects were "outstanding".   (awesome)The music was absolutely brilliant, and virtuosity (music).The sceneries were perfect.

******
5 November 2003
10

OK. I went to see this film full of doubts. My friend is a few years
younger
than me and loves Orlando Bloom since his appearance as Legolas and she
liked Johnny Depp to so not surprising she saw it on opening night. After
dealing with her gushing over the male leads and for a few days and
constant
bugging by my brother to see the film I eventually went with no
expectations. I wasnt a great fan of 'Legolas' and Id only seen Johnny
Depp
in Sleepy Hollow which was (IMHO) rather an odd film.From the second Depp appeared on screen I was hooked. Orlandos first
appearance in the governors house had left me swooning but it was Johnny
Depp that left me glued to the screen. Jack Sparrows introduction was
amazing and had me in stitches (my condition for most of the
film)The performances by each of the main characters was absolutely flawless,
the
chemistry that played between Will, Elizabeth and Jack was sparkling. The
special effects were brilliant and the story was enthralling.I have to say that I left the film deeply on love with both Orlando and
Johnny...but more so Jack Sparrow! Johnny Depp stole this film. His
performance was faultless and as unlikely as it is he deserves an oscar
for
this performance - he was flawless!I left the cinema with the film still fresh in my head, and went to see it
the next day...and 3 times the week after. I have also already managed to
obtain the film on DVD and its already been watched at home 4 times and is
in danger of melting! Im even starting to pick up some of Jacks
words...savvy? :-) Now thats not a good sign...LOLIMHO I give this film top marks...10/10 fantastic performances from the 4
leads: Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom in particular but Geoffrey Rush and
Kieira Knightley were on top form too.
A must see.


******
5 November 2003
10

I aboslutely LOVED this movie!  It is a movie that covers all the bases
and
does it well.  It has nonstop humor along with nonstop action.  It also
has
hot guys and smart witty women.  The priate thing makes it unique and
makes
the movie one of a kind.  This movie deserves best movie of the year, and
I
hope it gets it.  If you haven't seen it, buy it and watch it, it's
definelty worth the money!!

******
4 November 2003
10

*minor spoilers*Pirates of the Caribbean was an absolute FANTASTIC FILM!!! I didn't
expect
much from a Disney film, and to be honest, I actually went to see the
film
because Orlando Bloom starred in it. However, Johnny Depp proved to be
the
best actor in the film, who played the comedic and lunatic character,
Jack
Sparrow, exceptionally well. Stunning performance by Orlando Bloom as the
heroic blacksmith Will Turner, Geoffrey Rush as the haunting Captain
Barbossa and Keira Knightly as the strong and independent Elizabeth
Swann.
It even created a division between 'good' pirates and 'bad' pirates. (I
thought they were all ruthless?). Jack Sparrow is a well developed
character
who even draws sympathy from the audiences (when we're told of his crew
abandoning him). He also adds in well balanced comedy, which just makes
this
character even more loveable. Johnny Depp definitely at his best, and he
couldn't get any sexier!The sword fight with the two hottest actors was one of the best scenes!
who
could resist watching the young blacksmith fighting with the inticing
pirate, its a shame they didnt cut more of their shirts
off...The Special effects were fantastic, the story was witty and exciting, and
although the ending was a little cheesy, it is definitely a fantastic
MUST
SEE film.Definite thumbs up! go watch it if you haven't already! A perve at
Orlando
and Johnny is enough to make any girl want to see it!rate 9/10

******
28 October 2003
10

I think Pirates of the Caribbean Curse of the Black Pearl is one of the
best
films ive ever seen. Johnny Depp is so funny and looks so sexy as Captin
Jack Sparrow. Cant wait to see if there is a Pirates of the Carribean 2
because i enjoyed the first one so much. Hope Johnny Depp looks as nice
in
the second one! 

******
28 October 2003
10

I love Orlando Bloom in this movie BUT Johnny Depp is so on to it his
character is really cool and is facial expression are the best I have seen
yet he is awesome in this role and deserves a lot of the
credit.
I had fun with this movie and found it somewhat intriguing. I saw it twice
so far and i still want to go and watch
it again its that kind of movie for me The Hunks in this movie are
brilliant
at looking good even if it is in costumes i couldn't have chosen a better
movie for my Saturday night out.Why's the rum gone!!!!!!!!

******
26 October 2003
10

This movie is really, really good.I love it a lot. Not only is it
adventurous but it is has a wonderful story line. I love the pirate in
this
movie named Jack Sparrow. At first when you see him you think he is not
that
good at being a pirate for going even with a blacksmith in a sword fight.
But after a while you end up realizing that Johnny Depp  really does save
this movie, with his skills at being an actor. 

******
21 October 2003
10

I see a lot of movies, and this one is the best one that has graced the
silver screen for a long, long time. This is the perfect movie to go see
again and again - whether you're alone, with your parents, babysitting a
child, with a group of friends, or your boyfriend; There is something for
everyone. The cast is incredible, but hats off definitely to Johnny Depp.
I've never been one for the actors themselves; I think a movie is good
based
on the basic plot, storyline, and if the actors and actresses can pull off
a
half-decent job of making it believable. But Johnny Depp was absolutely
incredible in his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow! I am very, very
impressed.
In truth, until reading all the other comments posted about this movie, I
never even realized it was a "long" movie; the time seems to fly by when
watching it!
The plot is great. Some people may feel it's a "same old" type of story,
but
there is just something about the film which gives it an edge-of-your-seat
excitement and anticipation. Yes, the "good guy" wins, and Orlando Bloom
does get the girl, but the outcome is not quite so black-and-white as all
that. In fact, certain places throughout the story raise an arched eyebrow
in the more detailed observer. For example, has anyone stayed through the
credits to see the very very last scene at the very end of the credits? Be
forewarned: you will have to dodge brooms and ignore the exasperated sighs
of cleaning people as they manouever around you, and yes, the lights will
be
on, but stay until the last credit rolls. You will see what I mean about
leaving it open for something else.
I have been on the Disneyland ride, and found it a favorite. I was thus
overjoyed to see scenes from the ride in the movie. My personal favorite
was
the scene in the prison, when the men are trying to get the "mangy mut" to
help them escape. I loved thsi attention to detail that reminded people
that
yes, this is a Disney movie, in case some had forgotten amidst the
skeletal
ghosts and slashing swords and the figure that results from the beautiful
heroine wearing her dreaded corset.
There were no holes in this plot that I found. To the individual who
didn't
think it was mentioned why the blood of Orlando Bloom's character was
neeeded, Geoffrey Rush's character explains that each of the gold coins
had
to be brought back together in order for the curse to be broken. In
addition, each of the pirates had paid for their "sins" of taking the
cursed
treasure with their blood through time. The only pirate who had taken a
gold
piece, not returned it, and did not give any of his blood to "the cause"
was
the unseen character of Orlando Bloom's father. Just to clear up any
misconceptions.
This is an excellent movie, whether you want to see a romance, a happy
ending, a plot with a few twists thrown in, an adventure, a fantasy, or
anything inbetween. This movie cannot come highly enough recommended.
Definitely getting 10 out of 10 rating from me, and that's only because
there isn't a higher rating available. 

******
20 October 2003
10

Aside from Kill Bill, probably the most fun I had this year. I saw it
thrice
in theaters and can't wait for the DVD. Damn, Johnny Depp, if I was like
that... Woo! Great acting from Depp. Bloom was cool too.The only thing that I don't understand is... why isn't this on the Top 250
movies yet?

******
19 October 2003
4

An "adaptation" of a ride at Disneyland seemed like kind of a flimsy idea,
so I'm not entirely surprised that this overblown entry in the 2003 summer
movie season isn't all that good. Johnny Depp stars as Jack Sparrow, a humorously goofy pirate who walks with
a constant, drunken swagger. Depp, as always, gives a fun and eccentric
performance and gets some great lines in, but unfortunately he's the only
thing worth remembering about this movie. The story and all the other
characters are a total snooze. Jack is trying to get his ship, the Black Pearl, back from a group of
skeletal ghost pirates (led by a hammy Geoffrey Rush) who have kidnapped the
beautiful Elizabeth Swann (Winona Ryder look-alike Keira Knightley) in order
to use her blood to bring them back to life. Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) is
in love with Elizabeth, so he teams up with Sparrow. Bloom, from the "Lord
Of The Rings" movies and Knightley, from this year's great "Bend It Like
Beckham" are both interesting actors, but the characters they're playing
might as well be cardboard cutouts. There is lots of action and some twists in the story, but I found very
little of it interesting. In fact, Johnny Depp's likable performance and
one-liners were all that kept me awake through the ridiculous 2 hour, 15
minute running time. It's directed by Gore Verbinski, and I guess it shows he can direct a big
summer movie, but it completely lacks the small-scale style and
effectiveness of his earlier films like last year's eerie "The Ring" and
especially the quirky, sadly underrated "The Mexican".And when the army of skeletons shows up in the end, all I could think about
was how much cooler it was in "Army Of Darkness". I liked Depp's performance, but in a nutshell, the ride is
better.

******
19 October 2003
10

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL is truly an adventure
that is worth 4 times the price of admission. Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny
Depp) and a young blacksmith named Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) are after the
fabled ship, The Black Pearl, after the dreadful crew lead by Captain
Barbosa (Geoffrey Rush) kidnaps Will's main squeeze, Elizabeth Swann (played
by the lovely Keira Knightley). On the way, Will learns that the Black Pearl
used to belong to Jack, who lost it after Barbosa lead a mutiny against him.
But, Jack is lucky, because soon after the Pearl was stolen from him, the
crew had a nasty curse put upon them. Which makes them invincible, but turns
them into skeletons in the moonlight. Not only that, but the crew needs the
blood of a Turner (Will Turner!) to break the curse! This movie is an
exciting, swashbuckling tale that doesn't fail to entertain you with eye
popping battle scenes and asurbic wit. The running time is about 2 and a
half hours, a bit long for a summer flick. But it doesn't bore you at all.
The entire time your into the story and being dazzled by the action (and
beauty of Keira Knightley). Movies like this aren't made...ever! When was
the last time you saw a pirate movie? Cutthroat Island doesn't count!
Anyway, this movie is one of the best of 2003 and manages to make pirates
cool again.RATING: **** out of ****

******
16 October 2003
10

The film is such great fun, all through you are bombarded with action,
romance, comedy and amazing cgi. Geoffery Rush delivers a wonderful
performance as the evil Captain Barbossa and Johnny Depp MAKES the film
with
comedy that just brings tears to your eyes (from laughing so hard), his
best
role yet!!! As for Orlando Bloom he is also in one of his best roles to
date, although playing Legolas in LOTR catapulted him into stardom, this
is
without a doubt the role he shall be remembered for....at least, I believe
he shall.

******
16 October 2003
10

This film was by far the best I saw over my September holiday period. In
fact it was probably one of the best movies I have seen...ever!The reasons for this are numerous: Clever casting, interesting story
setting, love story meets action..the list continues. I will say that the
plot is not particularly extraordinary but that just shows how well the
other elements of the film contribute to its overall greatness.Firstly, and most importantly, the cast was fantastic. Johnny Depp and
Orlando Bloom were hot!! Not only physically, but their acting was superb.
Johnny's character (Capt. Jack Sparrow) was played with such realism, and
the humor he brought to the movie made a great film an excellent film.
Geoffrey Rush and Keira Knightly were also remarkable.The cast aside, everyone loves pirate films. The dark mystery that comes
helm with the pirate way of life and the quaintness of the island
settlements enriched the film with a glorious setting that is original.
There have not been many films based on pirating in the Caribbean, let
alone
to the standard of this one.The film is also one which all can enjoy. Hot guys for the girls and a
gorgeous love story, but sword fighting and skeleton pirates for the guys
(By the way GREAT visual effects!). It's also child friendly, a family
movie.I have seen this movie 4 times but am not nearly sick of it yet. The movie
is not so much great because of it's story but because of its novelty. The
witty humor brought by Johnny Depp and the amazing acting along with the
audience it appeals to and the fantastic story setting make this movie one
of my favorite EVER. I can't wait for the sequel!

******
15 October 2003
10

when i went into this movie i was expecting to see an average film. i
really
only went for Johnny Depp who is one of the best actors of this era, never
failing to give a superb performance. but on the whole i wasn't expecting
to
be impressed.
i am delighted to say that for once i was completely and utterly
wrong.
from the start with Jack Sparrows (Depp) brilliantly funny entrance, to
the
end, the hilarious fall off the balcony, i was laughing none
stop.
there is no weak link in this film. the script is brilliant, mixing the
right amount of plot without making it too confusing, and with so many
witty
gags to keep even the most unconvinced viewer amused. the direction is
also
spot on and the action is great.
the acting is also very convincing with Orlando Bloom as Will Turner
playing
the Errol Flynn number, Keira Knightley doing the damsel in distress come
feisty heroine routine and Geoffrey Rush hamming it up with the best of
them.
however, top honours go to Johnny Depp as, like always, he steals the show
completely. his Keith Richards meets Pepe Le Pew character is the funniest
and most inspired performance he has ever done (and that's saying a lot)
and
does not fail to keep you amused and excited from start to finish. his
changing character from kidnapping Elizabeth, to seemingly turning against
Will and then eventually becoming the hero is interrupted by scenes where
he
is truly playing it for comic value and does it effortlessly (his fight
with
Will at the beginning, being marrooned on the desert island and when he is
about to be hanged at the end are among the funniest bits in a very funny
film). his swaggering, drunken, hopeless yet heroic character is the best
thing to come out of films in a long time and will keep you laughing long
after the film is over.
the only slight criticism would be that it is about 20 minutes too long,
yet
i cannot think which bits i would have them cut out as i loved every
moment
of it (and, i ask myself, can you have too much of a good
thing.}
overall, this film would always have been a success, but having Johnny
Depp
on board (no pun intended) saved the film from being just another
hollywood
blockbuster with no heart and turning it into something extraordinary with
one of the best performances of his career, leaving the competition all
out
at sea.   

******
14 October 2003
10

If Johnny Depp does not win an award for this movie, then hell has frozen
over. The superb acting, the clever comebacks, the wittiness, and, of
course, the heart throbs make this the best movie of the year. I've seen
the
movie over 10 times, and can't wait for my 11th. If the whole cast isn't
back for Pirates 2, I will be sorely disappointed.

******
13 October 2003
10

The cinematography on this film is what makes it outstanding. Whether it's
Elizabeth Swann preparing to faint from a too-tight-corset on a parapet,
or
the tattered Black Pearl sailing in the moonlight, there's always
something
wondrous to gaze at on the screen. One fantastic underwater shot peruses a
school of hammerheads as they drift endlessly through an underwater cove
of
sunken, ghostly ships. The introductory scene is also stunning, one of the
most spell-casting experiences I've ever had the pleasure of witnessing.
The
Interceptor creeping through a mist-shrouded sea, the umbrella floating
by,
the magnificent horror of seeing a burning merchant ship, and our first
glimpse of the Black Pearl as it sails into the fog. This scene alone
makes
the movie ticket price well worth it... and that's only the first four
minutes.As many profession and personal critics have observed, the film belongs to
Johnny Depp's memorable performance as "Captain" Jack Sparrow, the single
pirate able to elude the curse thanks to his crew mutinying before the
gold
could be spent. But the other performers shouldn't be overlooked in his
hilariously likable wake. In the role of a very strong, independent
heroine,
Kiera Knightley manages to be both beautiful and spirited without escaping
into cliché. Orlando Bloom is more likable here than as the aloof Legolas
he's become so well known for; with some excellent action scenes, he shows
his unique skill with a blade as well as has the opportunity to carry off
a
romantic lead with a keen flair. Geoffrey Rush is at his best; being a fan
of his endeavors, it was a pleasure to watch him on screen in a very
different, very misunderstood role. He manages to make Barbossa both
fascinating, horrible, and yet have a shred of sorrow at the end for his
passing. Two extremely underrated actors, Britain's Jack Davenport and
Jonathan Pryce, are given the respective roles of Commodore Norrington,
Elizabeth's unfortunate fiancée, and her governor father.For once, scriptwriters haven't copped out and given us an easy decision.
While being slightly arrogant and something of an egotist, Norrington is
also extremely likable, a perfect gentleman, and one might even go so far
as
to say, the most noble character by the closing credits. Davenport plays
him
with just the right amount of lethargic enthusiasm and irritation; his
scenes with Depp, always wrought with blatant humor, are some of the
film's
finest moments. Pryce doesn't have a lot to work with, but the audience
cannot help but chuckle over some of his humorous traits, such as fighting
a
skeletal hand for his magnanimous wig. The music is also first-rate, very
mood-setting with a certain sense of dramatic tension even in romantic
scenes. The film is well worth a PG13 rating, but is never inappropriate
for
younger audiences. The mild innuendo will go over children's heads (and
most
parents as well, for that matter -- only literature history-lovers will
pick
up some of the sly historical jests), the violence is all quite bloodless,
and there's virtually no profanity. The pirates are properly frightening
and
in various stages of decay, extremely cool from a CGI perspective.A movie well worth its praise, and one you simply MUST own on DVD for all
its subtleties. 

******
12 October 2003
10

What can anyone say about Pirates of the Caribbean except that it's
BRILLIANT!!From the beginning of the movie, you set sail on a journey through the
Caribbean. You can almost smell the air and feel totally absorbed into the
movie.The plot is good for a pirates' story with so many twists and shifts and
gets you into the story step by step.The set design is very good. So realistic and so rich you see that nothing
is out of place, everything is where it's supposed to be.The direction is excellent. The fight sequences were done in a humorous mode
but with good skills.The graphics is OUTSTANDING. You can look with the examining eye, you can
not find a single moment of inconsistency in the graphics. It took my breath
away.The leads (Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, Keira Knightley and
Jack Davenport) were brilliant. They contributed positively to their roles,
especially Johnny Depp. He was so funny and so in character that you
couldn't imagine anyone else doing that role but him (savvy?).In Total...I think that this movie gave Disney a peak that is HARD to
surpass. I really doubt if anyone could do any better.

******
12 October 2003
10

This movies is all a person could want from a film: action,
adventure, comedy, horror, romance.... A crowd pleaser for any
crowd, savvy?  Depp, in an award-worthy performance shines like
never before.  A must-see.

******
11 October 2003
10

Being in South Africa I had to wait an extra 2 months to wait to see POTC.
But finally the day came and I was definitely not disappointed!! A movie for
all people: action, comedy, drama and romance included.I am totally in to Orlando Bloom. I thought that he was good (being the
romantic gorgeous hero) but Johnny Depp made the movie. Without his quick
quirky comments the movie would not have been the same.The story follows Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom)as they follow The Black Pearl and Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) so
they can rescue Elizabeth Swann (Kiera Knightley) who is believed ,by the
pirates, to possess the ability to stop the curse that torments them from
experiencing any feelings.A movie that is definitely on my to-buy list!

******
11 October 2003
10

I love this movie.  I have seen it twice and would gladly see it
again.Johnny Depp is fabulous in his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow.  His
mannerisms, quirks, and humour bring this character to life.  Orlando
Bloom,
Geoffrey Rush, and Keira Knightley also perform superbly in the
film.These performances, combined with a magnificent soundtrack, fun
swordfighting scenes, and a good plot make a great movie.  That said,
there
were some plot elements that I didn't quite understand, but they were few
and not so confusing that I couldn't enjoy the movie.I recommend this movie to those who love pirate movies or movies that are
fun, funny, and exciting with a bit of romance thrown in.


******
8 October 2003
10

I have seen this movie 7 times and would see it 7 more. I have the
soundtrack C.D. and I am on a waiting list for the DvD.This is the best movie of 2003. and Johnny Depp deserves the Oscar forBest Actor. (his performance was absolutely amazing)
This movie is what movies are meant to be - To take you to another place
in
time, to forget about all the things of the real world, To enjoy your
self.
to pretend, to have fun, to be young.
I am sick of hollywood telling us how to feel and live our life's. I think
they forget who pays their salaries. We do and we want this movie to win
every award.
Because it deserves it.
I know it will not happen they have their heads stuck up their
___________
So all I can do is watch it again. Buy the DvD and Wait for theSEQUEL

******
6 October 2003
10

Wow, it is amazing! The sword fights and cannon blasts, and amazing
graphics.
I love the skeletons this movie is so cool.
I have seen it three times and still, I have yet to be bored. I love
Johnny
Depp,
this movie is what made me want to see more of his movies than I had. What
a
wonderful story.
The best movie of the summer. It leaves you in aw and amazement at how
good
a movie can be.  The plot is just fabulous and if you haven't seen it do.
This
movie is the best ever! It will be remembered for centuries.
See It!

******
4 October 2003
10

This movie is what summer films should be all about.  Fun, good plot (even
if it is based on a Disney ride), great special effects.  Johnny Depp
should
be nominated for an academy award for his performance.  He was the movie!
My granddaughter and I saw it 6 times this summer (I know, I know, but
what
fun it was!) and I have to admit I saw it a couple of times with other
people.  Now mind you, my granddaughter and I are huge Lord of the Rings
fans, and this movie cannot compare that way, but it was a terrific, fun
way
to spend a rainy summer afternoon.  Everyone should see it at least once,
just to see Johnny's marvelous makeup!  HA!

******
4 October 2003
10

This film is amazingly stunning!!! I have been to the cinema 7 times to
see
it, and each time see something new, I didnt see before hand!!! The film
has
a fantastic story line, some amazing special effects, and some comedy to
die
for!!!. The acting in POTC is fantastic, and Keira Knightley is stunningly
beautiful and very funny. Orlando Bloom is a little wooden, but still
good,
but Johnny Depp steals the show with his characterisation of Captain Jack
Sparrow. He has a very strong character, with a great voice, attitude and
appearance. Fantastic!!!

******
4 October 2003
10

This movie is what summer films should be all about.  Fun, good plot (even
if it is based on a Disney ride), great special effects.  Johnny Depp
should
be nominated for an academy award for his performance.  He was the movie!
My granddaughter and I saw it 6 times this summer (I know, I know, but
what
fun it was!) and I have to admit I saw it a couple of times with other
people.  Now mind you, my granddaughter and I are huge Lord of the Rings
fans, and this movie cannot compare that way, but it was a terrific, fun
way
to spend a rainy summer afternoon.  Everyone should see it at least once,
just to see Johnny's marvelous makeup!  HA!

******
3 October 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is da best movie eva!!!!!"You see me, I'm dishonest and a dishonest man you can always
trust to be dishonest. Honestly, it's the honest ones you've got to
watch out for, because you never know when they're going to do
something incredibly stupid..." - CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow"So,you see, we're all men of our word really, except for Elizabeth
who is in fact a woman!" - CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow" "Musta been Terrible for you Jack" WELL IT BLOODY IS NOW!!!" -
CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow

******
3 October 2003
10

What can i say that hasnt already been said, i went to see this for
Orlando
Bloom and went back for Johnny Depp. It is the best film i have seen this
year. It combines action, comedy and romance, which i find is the best
kind
of film. ok so some of the fight scenes look very choreographed, but the
comedy is natural, i havent laughed so much in ages, another reason to
see
it is that i have just read the shortlist for the Oscars next year and
Johnny Depp is up for Best Actor

******
2 October 2003
10

Until about a month ago, The Two Towers was unique for being the only film
I
had ever gone to see in a cinema on more than one occasion. It's not
unique
any more, and to a great extent, it's also overshadowed. I've been to see
this gem more often...There are a lot of high points to this
movie...namely,
it's what a trip to the cinema is all about, transportation to another
place, if even for a couple of hours. Oh sure, Middle Earth is another
place
too, but it's not exactly fun, is it. I enjoy looking at it, but do I
really
want to walk through the cinema screen into the battle at Helm's Deep? I
think not. Escapism. Sure, Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush give the ultimate
performances in it. But lots of things about this movie worked for me. The
set design, the special effects, the weather...and tiny little details
that
you wouldn't miss if they weren't there, but which added to the movie big
time. If I had to list a favourite movie of all time, I used to say The
Princess Bride, or the first Matrix or whatever mood I am in. But I've
seen
this one five times now and it still is not tedious, still fresh...and
it's
pretty much there. I'm not surprised people loved it. It's a fairy tale,
and
funny how things like them seem to last...

******
2 October 2003
5

Although this film is a rousing romp of maritime adventure, it has some
problems with historical continuity.  Characters seem to randomly inhabit
any century from the 16th to the 18th, roughly from the period of Edward VI
to George III,  willy nilly.  The action and characters are everything they
need to to be and a bit more ( you can just about smell Depp's Jack
Starling.)  This film makes me appreciate all those Flynn, Power, Derek and
Payne movies which managed to capture the period and flavor of bygone
Romantic eras with much greater dispatch and lower budgets.  But I'm glad to
see this genre again after too long an absence from our screens.  Great fun,
all in all.

******
1 October 2003
10

This was a movie whose trailor was played all day, everyday, as the
build-up
to the release loomed here in Cape Town.  Me, im one for swash-buckling
pirates and handsome hero's, so of course i was intruiged and dutifully
paid
the fee to see the movie, although i have to add that my expectations were
sky high, and this is normally a recipe for intense disappointment.But not this day, this movie.  It had me from the opening sequence, to the
end credits and left me wanting more.  i found the entire movie a marvel,
the characters well scripted and perfectly brought to life.  above all of
that though, the humour and wit brought forth by the wondeful Jack Sparrow
and counterparts made the film.  the chemistry was perfect and this is
definitely a movie i would indeed pay to see once again.as mentioned, Johnny Depp was PERFECTLY cast as Jack Sparrow, Captain Jack
Sparrow that is.  He melded with this character and there is truthfully
none
other i could see in the role.  it was tailor made and he fit it like a
glove.  it was also interestingly refreshing to see him in a role that
departed from the "Sleepy Hollow" "From Hell" spectrums of the last few
years.Orlando Bloom, an actor surrounded with much hype.  and i have to say much
deserved.  He was fantastic, and a wonderful support.  Will Turners
chemistry with Captain Jack is a marvel to watch and i found myself
smiling
an aweful lot.  and yes, i too drowned in his gorgeously long lashed
eyes!Kiera Knightly, the herione is one that i did not care for much.  despite
her success in Bend it like Beckham, Kiera never really captivated me, but
even she had me smiling and praising the casting directors for their
choice.
she was lovely and a wonderful foil for the otherwise all male
cast.there is no other rating but 5/5; 10/10
Excellent, and more inportantly a movie that EVERYONE, adult and child
alike
would love.  something for everyone!!!

******
30 September 2003
10

I just didn't want it to end.  From the very beginning I was experiencing
that nice light hearted happy feeling of total enjoyment.  A great mix of
action and humour and it was lovely to see a film not reliant on violence
and swearing just for the sake of it.  Johnny Depp was outstanding as was
the guy who was Gareth in "The Office".  Having just watched Terminator 3
and feeling quite despondent about the decidedly dodgy offerings at the
cinema, this film has certainly restored my faith.  Can't wait to see it
again.

******
26 September 2003
10

this is the best movie i saw all year. johnny depp was the most hilarious
pirate i have ever seen(although i thought he did a very convincing
job).anyone who hasnt seen this yet please do. it will be one of the few
movies i saw this year that i will buy on DVD

******
25 September 2003
10

Johnny Depp is a wonderful actor, nevermind his rugged good looks that
make
you want to use the drool cup.His acting has gone from 'needing help' in "Cry Baby to absolutely
'wonderful' in "Pirates of the Caribbean:  The Curse of the Black
Pearl".Johnny Depp makes this movie!

******
25 September 2003
10

It's been along time snice disney came out with a flick like this.
One
day this will be one of those classic disney films they show durring
recerational assembles at your elementy school's adutorum. Johnny depp is
unforgateable as jack sparrow. I love it when an action movie is capable
of
apealing to the masses Hopefully the sucess of this movie will cause
disney
to update that dated ride this movie was based on. 

******
24 September 2003
10

Good story, Great performance from Deep, great character creation, this
Jack
Sparrow is an absolute new kind of character, I think very few actors can
create a character like Deep did.
Great !. 

******
24 September 2003
10

My friends always ask me about films. What shall they see? What's the
latest
film i saw and like it very much? I couldn't answer frankly. But
now...
This is a very good advanture movie with a great story. The character of
Johnny Depp is very well created and magnificent. The play of Mr.Depp make
this character unforgetablettable. The crew can find the optimal way
between
humour and action. The fighting scenes are spectacular with little bit
funny. Very good. I can recommend it for everybody.

******
23 September 2003
10

This is a fun movie that reminds me of The Princess Bride for it's great
fight scenes and  Johnny Depp's and Geoffrey Rush's wonderful characters.
Though it's not nearly as witty  overall, it's full of great lines (most of
which go to Jack Sparrow), funny references to  Disney's PotC ride, and good
visuals.  The special effects are keen and not made to  scare, though young
ones might be wary.  The movie can run on a bit, but I really didn't  mind
(It meant more Jack Sparrow).  I've read reviews stating that Johnny Depp is
channeling a drunken drag queen in this movie, and that's a good thing.
There truly is  something hypnotic, sexy, and worth swooning over in the way
he plays Jack Sparrow. This movie also encourages kids to eat their fruits... particularly apples. And if none of this has convinced you to go see this movie, then go to see
the staggering amount of dental work.  I'm not kidding, watch the credits
and count the  number of dentists who worked on this!  Depp's and Rush's
mouths alone must've kept  several dentists busy for weeks.

******
22 September 2003
5

Overwrought, grotesque, turgid.  At the end they are fighting and fighting,
Barberousse (who does not have a red beard) and Sparrow, and we ask why
because neither can die.  On and on and on and on they go, while elsewhere
all kinds of mayhem occurs.  This film has a mixed tone - unlike Sinbad: it
tries to be a swashbuckler, but must fall into line on the current craze for
realistic effects and graphic violence.  We watch brutal,
winner-take-all-and-death-to-the-loser battles, as the heroes quip and
prance, and just out of frame the ghouls plunge swords into the chests of
soldiers we have just seen fall.  In Sinbad, no one seems to die - and that
is fine by me.  Johnny Depp swishes drunkenly through his role; Orlando
Bloom is appropriately dewy and earnest; the girl is luminous, fiery,
resourceful - like every heroine in action films these days.  This film fell
seriously in love with its main effect: the pirates turn into ghouls under
the moonlight.  You want to see a great swashbuckler, invite your niece or
nephew or the kid next door, and check out Sinbad.  

******
22 September 2003
10

I originally had some doubts when it came to POTC, and was somewhat
pleased
when I had to cancel on seeing it. When I did finally get around to seeing
it, I was blown away.Johnny Depp gives a wonderful performance as the roguish, bumbling,
half-drunk, handsome ;-) Captain Jack Sparrow. His character is not one we
will soon forget.Geoffrey Rush is awesome as the cursed Captain Barbossa. Keira Knightley
and
Orlando Bloom weren't bad, but I just found their characters to be
boring.Coming in at just under two and a half hours, some view Pirates as too
long,
while other, more obsessive fans, didn't want it to end.So, all in all, if you want a fun, swashbuckling, good for the whole
family
but you actually WILL enjoy it unlike some other movies who said that too,
check out Pirates. You won't be sorry.*****

******
21 September 2003
6

I give it 6 stars.Very entertaining and quite good at some points. At other times just plain
hideous. The two soldiers and two pirates you follow during the movie are
absolutely misplaced. They are supposed to add humor but I found their
presence really annoying.
The humor in the movie is mediocre. 


******
20 September 2003
10

this has got to win something when time comes to get an award!!! this is
pne
pf the best movies made this year, and there has definitly compition. if
you
want to see a GREAT movie this would the one to see, in theatre's or on
your
couch... dont miss this one...

******
20 September 2003
10

Don't know about all you guys, but when I go to the movies I don't want
real
life, I get enough of that in........real life!
This was the best film i've seen in years, I didn't know how long it was
and
couldn't believe how much time had passed while watching the
movie.
The 2 hours and 20 odd minutes sailed by ( sorry, bad pun!
)
Johnny Depp was superb, the accent was so-so but as a brit i'll forgive
him!
He stole every scene he was in, he camped it up throughout, I laughed out
loud and so did my kids aged 16 & 10.
The dvd is already on my wish list and hopefully a sequel will
follow.
Storyline? wasn't really one but who cares? As I said the movies for me
are
about parking my brain at the door and being entertained, and this movie
delivered that in spades.
So take a chill pill guys and stop taking life so seriously!!


******
20 September 2003
10

This is a really funny movie! Johnny Depp brings so much to the character
Jack Sparrow he is hysterical in this movie. Also Keira Knightley (who
plays
Elizabeth Swann) Is a great actress, she stole every scene! I really love
this movie its an actioned packed movie but also hysterical! Great Movie!
9/10

******
16 September 2003
6

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl has been regarded as
the best film this summer in the US, and many IMDb users have praised the
return of the pirate genre.With this in mind I went to the cinema and watched this movie, and once
again I disagree with the IMDb users and possibly also a lot of critics. The
story had a lot of potential with ghost pirates and stuff like that, it is a
pirate movie and you can accept things like this, but the movie fails to
impress me for several reasons.First of all the cast was not chosen wisely. Johnny Depp is without doubt a
great actor, but he is simply the wrong choice for an old pirate. He does
not look old, but according to the story he should have been captain on the
same ship where Geoffrey Rush was chief officer. The rest of the cast was
chosen more wisely, but I never liked Orlando Bloom's character
either.One thing that really annoyed me was that almost every character should be
funny, it was very annoying and at some points unbearable to watch. First we
have some stupid English soldiers, later Johnny Depp has to be funny, and we
also have to watch some funny ghost pirates all the time. Suddenly all
characters have to be funny, and the ghost pirates are just comic sidekicks
in this movie, they are not scary at all. The idea to make the English
soldiers stupid has also been seen so many times before, and I really
dislike it.If that was all of it, then I maybe would not be that grumpy, but that was
not all of it. The whole idea of immortal pirates was actually not good even
though I accept stuff like that in this pirate adventure genre. I can ask a
simple question, why do people take a fight against these immortal pirates?
There is absolutely no point in doing that because the outcome has already
been decided. Am I the only one who is asking these simple questions?
Hopefully I am not.After having criticised the movie I also have to point out some of the good
sides. The movie is well done in both sound and picture. The effects are
good and the ships can fascinate most people. Anyway, the movie does not deserve a good rating, because the plot is too
thin and all scenes have to be fun, which is a disaster in a 143 minute
movie. Beautiful scenes and a few laughs however make this an acceptable
picture, which should not be treated as an memorable movie of year 2003. -
Rating: 6/10.

******
13 September 2003
10

I loved "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl"! It had a
bit of everything thrown in -- action, comedy, romance and very good special
effects! I heard it was good, but not as good as I thought it was! It's
definitely one of the best films of 2003 so far. Johnny Depp was great and
carried the film very well. It wouldn't have been as good without him,
because he really gave life to his character, Captain Jack Sparrow. Orlando
Bloom and Keira Knightley were also really good, and Geoffrey Rush was
excellent as the evil Barbossa. Overall, a wonderful movie!

******
9 September 2003
8

Great to see that careful planning, structuring and audience studying pay
off sometimes. The audience can at times be a strange beast, and can sink
pictures in the same turf where others have been glorified. But Disney
couldn't allow this movie to suffer the fate of Roman Polanski's
"Pirates"
or "Cutthroat Island". First major rule: stick to what you know, and
always
trust the school of Hollywood -  thus, create a buddy-buddy formula, add
the
love interest, and then create a baddie, or even better, an army of
baddies
to go chase the heroes. The cornerstones of the typical american
blockbuster
are all right there, splattered on the screen, just pick them out. Second
major rule: give the audience the very thing they're looking for when in
the
movies - exactly those things that they're not expecting. So assume the
pirate theme and adapt it to the 21st century - and then come the
bombastic
the special effects. These two rules are usually gold, and when you
tackle a
movie genre that hasn't been touched for almost ten years, it isn't
difficult to give people what they want to see. But this apparent ease of
thought would trap Disney, so thank God for brilliant ideas - and one
brilliant actor. Johnny Depp steals the show right from his unforgettable
entrance, and never thinks of allowing some space for other things to
provide comic relief. And neither do the filmmakers, and the public. As
Jack
Sparrow, the gallery of Depp-ish weirdness is complete with a full-on,
iconic buckaneer, brilliantly crossing pirate stereotype with pop culture
in
a performance of rare dedication and method for a summer blockbuster. The
result is the most memorable character of the picture, and also the
entire
blockbuster season. "Pirates of the Caribbean" could be in many ways
another
flop, but the producers made this movie by studying everything that made
the
others sink to the bottom. And also did Jerry Bruckheimer, whose "Pearl
Harbor" left more bitterness in his mouth than memories in the entire
audience. A refined sense of style, bombastic CGI skelletons and a script
that only feels muddled when it seeks help in some of the chapters of the
"Hollywood book of screenwriting", make this a winner, and one of the
best
popcorn-munchers of the year. Expect Peter Weir's / Russell Crowe's
"Master
and Commander", expect "Pirates of the Caribbean 2", and most probably
seafaring adventures are back into the silver screen. Ahoy!

******
7 September 2003
5

This film was great fun and just might awaken more interest in the
historical adventure film...a genre that has been sadly missed, but as in
"Gladiator", when done well is big box office. However, Johnny Depp's 
rancid Captain Jack makes on long for the likes of Robert Newton, Anthony
Quinn, and the pirate heroes of the 50's such as Flynn and Tyrone Power. 
The "evil dead" type special effects were an
unnecessary distraction and the historical continuity was ludicrous.  Some
characters were circa 16th and 17th century (Orlando Bloom with his
Musketeer garb at the end) while the British troops were definitely late
18th century as in the American Revolution. Although I have to laud the
intention the results were not entirely satisfying, but I'd like to see more
attempts at this kind of film.

******
1 September 2003
5

As a child, Elizabeth Swann spots Will Turner floating unconscious in the
water when she is at sea with her father, the British Governor.  After Will
has been rescued, Elizabeth discovers and takes the coin hanging around his
neck (a sign that Will is a pirate).  As an adult, Elizabeth (Keira
Knightley) wears this coin round her own neck and because of this, she is
kidnapped by the crew of pirate ship, the Black Pearl who are cursed to sail
the seas in a ghostly zombie-like state.  Only when the coin is returned to
its treasure chest will this curse be lifted.  It is then up to Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) with the help of pirate Jack Sparrow to rescue the
Governor's daughter.A good selling point of the film is its cast which includes pretty actors
Bloom, Knightley and Depp (personally, I don't know what the fuss is about
with Orlando Bloom to me he is merely a younger version of Antonio
Banderas).  Depp gives a likeable but over-the performance as the drunk and
cockney accented Jack Sparrow and other big names include Geoffrey Rush as
Barbossa, the captain of the Black Pearl, and Jonathan Pryce as Elizabeth's
Governor father.  Also, look out for Gareth of The Office' fame as one of
the pirates!  All seem to be having fun with some acting more befitting to a
pantomime than a film.  The main problem I have with this film is that the pirate concept holds
little interest for me (I am however, slightly amused by the obligatory
Oooh Arrr's in pirate speak).  The main source of excitement is the fight
sequences during which we see some good special effects of the crew of the
Black Pearl appearing as a combination of skeleton and rotting flesh when
exposed to direct moonlight.  However, the fighting soon becomes dull and
repetitive.  Because the villains are already dead, there does not appear to
be a quick resolution and as a result, the film is painfully drawn out to
well over two hours in length.Young children and those who are intrigued and excited by the prospect of
pretty actors romping about and fighting on ships and the hoisting of the
Jolly Roger will probably enjoy Pirates of the Caribbean'.  If you arrive
to the cinema in a panto frame of mind, you will have a lot of fun but
unfortunately the film left this viewer cold.


******
1 September 2003
5

The movie really dragged on.  The core of the movie plot was somewhat
intriguing but the execution was did not work.  The movie was not funny
enough to be a comedy; not realistic enough to be gripping; not exciting
enough to stop you from squirming in your seat.  The comedy was too
extensive to be comic relief and their was not enough drama to need to be
relieved.  Johnny Depp, a fine actor, was annoying as the almost drunk
sounding lead.  More swishy than swash buckling.  

******
29 August 2003
5

Caught this film last week and have to say I didn't think it was the
greatest thing since sliced bread, but Johnny Depp and his over the top
campy performance delighted me.  It was worth seeing just because of him.  I
like that Depp chooses unusual, frequently non mainstream films, I think he
is a decent actor.  His facial expressions in this movie were priceless and
I giggled through much of it.  My suggestion..wait for it to come to cable
tv, but enjoy it when ya want to just relax and have a little
fun.

******
18 August 2003
4

Average action adventure Disney yarn is watchable mainly due to good
performances by Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and the lovely Keira
Knightley.It's the tale of a pirate ship called the Black Pearl, once captained by the
eccentric Depp, whose new captain  Geoffrey Rush is looking for a pirate
medallion that ends up in the hands of Knightley, the daughter a rich
governor (Jonathan Pryce). Throw in Bloom as the dashing hero with a sketchy
past and a major crush on Knightley, and you've got yourself a special
effects ridden harmless piece of entertainment. Downsides are too many silly
additional characters, who will only be of interest to very young viewers,
and at 143 minutes, its far too long - they could have cut out about half an
hour of footage off at least.Nice to see a fairly original idea through, although I hear it is based on a
computer game(?) or something (I may be wrong), instead of the countless
sequels that have cluttered up the cinemas over the past year or
so...saying that, no doubt there will be a `Pirates of the Caribbean 2'
through, sooner rather than later!!


******
31 July 2003
5

Let me start by saying that Johnny Depp was great in this movie, as
expected...  The movie it self was pretty average with a very lame ending!
It could have also been an hour shorter...  Pretty predictable and not
much
new really...

******
23 July 2003
4

I fell asleep while watching this film in a THX cinema.  While this weakened
my understanding of the film's plot, my 11 year old companion cheerily
filled in the details on the drive home.I sympathized with Johnny Depp who, like me, seemed to have just woken up
prior to many scenes.  While I was clueless as to what exactly was going on,
Depp pulled off well his wake up calls and instead appeared to have a
brilliant, original take on the plot twists.  Move Depp, on probation, into
the "watchable actor, sole reason for buying ticket" column.Hollywood producers accept pirate projects at their peril.  Maybe it's a
challenge match for those with money to spare.  Someone today no doubt
pitched a TV series based on the pirates in 'Six Days, Seven Nights'. 
Pirates.  Hollywood.  Fairbanks.  Swashbuckle.  Search
me.

******
23 July 2003
5

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN is an expensive film.  It looks expensive, and
was more than likely expensive to make.  It is a film about cursed
pirates.  It has lots o' CGI effects (my favorite), but fails at using
them in any new or interesting way.  Geoffory Rush and Johnny Depp (as a
high seas Keith Richards) seem to be having a blast, but then again they
are being payed a whole lot of money (see note above on film's expense).The musical score, by Klaus Badelt, is carbon copy Media Ventures crap
(and to think he replaced Alan Silvestri...), and probably cost a good
penny in and of itself.  Let's just say that if I didn't have a
girlfriend, I would have never seen this film.Okay, the bad points:  On a general level I find this film disturbing.
It opens the gates of hell and, upon its success, will prompt Disney to
churn out colorful products that do nothing more than promote the
corporate giant's theme parks (did anyone catch the trailer for THE
HAUNTED MANSION, looks good...sigh...).  One can almost feel the hairy
mouse-like tendrils closing on the jugular of American film.  Mark my
words: there will be a 'It's a Small World' movie and when that day
comes may God help us all.  5/10.


******
22 July 2003
5

I just got back from watching this movie. I should first mention that I
had
no idea what this movie was about (beyond Pirates). All I knew about this
movie was that it did great over the weekend. I don't understand where
all
the comments about this movie being good, and Johnny Depp acting great
are
coming from! First, the overacting by Johnny Depp was driving me crazy! I
kept expecting to see Mr. Spock and Dr. McCoy show up on screen. His
character had no purpose in the movie! The nice compass he had could have
been given to any other character, and the plot of the movie would not
have
changed a bit. The characters were so shallow, I had no strong feeling
about
any of them. There was nothing very interesting about the plot either. It
was so simple, that reading the one sentence plot outline from imdb.com
tells you everything you need to know about it. The best part of the film
is
the visual effects, very stunning throughout the entire film! Overall, I
give this film a 5/10. If you've got nothing else to do, go see this film
and watch the nice visual effects. But remember to turn your brain off
before the movie starts, or you'll end up with a splitting headache by
the
time it ends.

******
19 July 2003
3

Over all the movie ended up being ok, in spite of the fact it could have
been great. But as anyone who's familiar with Jerry Bruckheimer movies
knows, lots of scenes ended up being over dramatized, over humored,
grossly
contrived scenarios, a lot of style with very little substance, and
generally for people with low intellect and attention spans.But as someone else pointed out, it should at least be pretty fun for the
kids. Johnny Depp's character, while over the top, was still pretty
entertaining as a pirate who's got a screw loose, or one sandwich shy of
a
picnic (which in the movie seems to mean having effeminate mannerisms).
All
the other characters are mind numbingly cliched.The real stars of the movie, of course, are the special effects.
Spectacular
transition effects done almost seamlessly. So gather of the kids and head
on
down to the matinee. If you're an adult, you might want to have a drink
first and check your IQ at the door. Trust me; you'll have a better
time.


******
17 July 2003
6

**Warning! Mild Spoilers Ahead!**If I were given $125 million and told to make a B-movie about pirates,
"Pirates" would be something I wouldn't mind coming up with. The flick
works
because it doesn't quite take itself seriously. Had it been a straight
forward movie, boredom would have set in sooner, but the tongue-in-cheek
humor makes it endurable.At the core of the askance goofiness is Johnny Depp, who plays Captain
Jack
Sparrow, a pirate of questionable skills and methods, in a half-drunk
manner
that can't be taken too seriously. He embodies all things pirate,
complete
with cliches, sarcastic remarks, and rum. Initially his odd mannerisms
threw
me, as I didn't quite understand why he couldn't walk straight. But as
his
character was fleshed out, everything made sense; and Depp's brilliance
was
understood. He and his character carried the movie, in part because every
time Pirates drifted towards over-the-top seriousness, a mere glance or
comment from Depp put it back in its proper place. Popcorn movies don't
usually supply opportunities for great performances, and maybe there
wasn't
one written. Depp, however, took the part to a level beyond the movie
itself.The rest of the cast ranged from servicable to good. Orlando Bloom
finally
starred in a movie without his pointy ears, and did quite well as
blacksmith
apprentice Will Turner. Although he didn't have much to work with in a
combination role as both straight man and hero, he filled those roles
admirably, proving once again that he has a stellar screen presence.The striking Keira Knightley, in a slightly different role than Bend it
Like
Beckham, doesn't have much to do as the damsel in distress. But she
presents
Elizabeth as a step up from the token screamer. Her long figure and bold
facial features (Natalie Portman-esque) draw attention as well. She and
Bloom make quite the on-screen duo.Geoffrey Rush leads the rest of the cast as Captain Barbossa, the
requisite
evil pirate and Sparrow's nemesis. He eats up his part, nearly outdoing
Depp
in the campiness department. Everyone else is competent, looking their
parts
well, but doing little more.Aside from Depp's performance, the look of the movie was the highlight.
The
rich and colorful palette of the film enhanced the bold lifestyle
embraced
by such rogues. The sweeping cinematography, meant to be seen on the big
screen, captured the feeling of living such a sea-bound life, providing
an
experience that truly felt on location.Much has been made of ILM's skeletal special effects, and they deserve
whatever praise they receive. Simply designing the skeletons and their
smooth movements is impressive enough. But the real accomplishment is the
phenomenally fluid transition of the undead from flesh to bone when
moving
in and out of moonlight. This movie should at least get a look when the
Academy Awards come around.Surprisingly for a pirate movie, the sound is quiet during the opening
scenes, so quiet that the rumbling bass from the neighboring theater
intruded on my screening. But once the action accelerated, the sound did
as
well. Fortunately it did not reach the ear-splitting levels of previous
Bruckheimer fare like "Armageddon", plateauing at a loud but manageable
volume, providing a pleasant aural experience.That experience was enhanced by the score of Klaus Badelt. He is clearly
a
disciple of Hans Zimmer, as the music rings of Zimmer's "Gladiator".  It
is
also reminiscent of "Mask of Zorro". The strings and horns drove forward
with the action of the movie, especially during the climactic scenes.
Some
may find the music over-bearing, but for a movie such as this, it is
quite
appropriate.As much as I've raved thus far, I rate this movie only 6 out of 10 (still
a
thumbs up in my book) for a number of reasons. Unfortunately, "Pirates"
has
a running time (nearly 150 minutes) that matches the titular length.
Trimming 20-30 minutes off, mostly at the beginning and end, would have
made
this film much better, limiting the lulls between action. After the
humorous
introduction to Sparrow, the exposition was too long. Depp portrayed the
part well enough that we didn't need every single aspect of his character
explicitly shown. In the last half hour, the battle scenes between the
undead and the British, while visually attractive, were both too long and
unnecessary. Since the pirates were immortal at that point, shouldn't
they
have overrun the British more quickly? They could have easily reached the
ship later and just commenced the fight when the curse was lifted. The
inclusion of a mandatory happy-ending epilogue was fine, but it too
dragged,
because the writers had to politely wrap up the love triangle.Speaking of which, the whole Elizabeth-Commodore Norrington romance angle
should have been axed. Not only did it add length, it overstated the fact
that Elizabeth and Turner were going to fall in love. Speaking of
needless
romantic angles, the ambiguous past between Sparrow and Anamaria should
probably have been trimmed too. I'm guessing there was more to it in the
original cut, but most of that was eliminated, leaving the small
remaining
parts out of place.Speaking of out of place, the comedic relief pirates and soldiers,
although
amusing at first, quickly wore out their welcome. Characters such as
theirs
are usually present in Disney movies, but in a more 'adult' flick,
particularly one already replete with humor, the cheap comedy only
annoyingly slows down the pacing.But the biggest problem with Pirates is that for all its positives, the
movie still is not truly interesting. It does engage, but does not pique
interest. There is just too much going on between too many people to
really
care about what's occurring. Don't get me wrong. It's an enjoyable film
from
which you will likely remember a handful of images; but outside of
Captain
Jack Sparrow, the depth is lacking. Maybe that will be remedied in the
inevitable sequel(s)...Bottom Line:  Good summertainment. 6 of 10. Pass the rum.


******
13 July 2003
5

Maybe I was in a bad mood, but I just couldn't help thinking that they
went
a bit overboard on the CHEESE.  Can I have ONE film without a lame
love-interest blah blah blah blah blah.Also annoying:  continually cutting to useless shots of the big, beaded
black dude and the cross-dressing couple in the rowboat.Depp of course was nifty.

******
11 July 2003
5

This movie was for the most part, a contrived piece of filth.  It was
stocked full of lackluster action scenes and cheesy one line quips.  It
was
poorly written with little development and didn't even cut it as a
exciting
action film as the fight sequences were poorly made.  However... What
saved
this film from a rating of 3 which it rightly deserved was the amazing
acting back Johnny Depp.  despite having a badly written character in a
badly written film he still managed to make the movie worth seeing again.
He was the only character who actually showed signs of life.  I would
suggest everyone wait until it reaches video... don't rush off to spend 8
dollars at the theaters... it's not worth it... pay the 4 dollars at
blockbuster just to see Johnny depp.

******
10 July 2003
7

After months of anticipation, Pirates just did not live up to my
expectations.  I know it is a Disney flick and based on a ride, but I was
hoping for a little more realism.  Plus, it was a bit overlong.  I found
myself wondering when it was going to end before it even ended which is
never a good sign to me.  I also did not like the cheesy
ending.On the other hand, the hottie factor was definitely high between Orlando and
Johnny.  Though they both played their roles well, I think the award for
best acting in this movie should go to Geoffrey Rush.  He was
great.I admit the film had plenty of laughs and some of the one-on-one fight
scenes were interesting.  Though in this day and age, I guess I expect more
blood and guts.This is definitely a family movie, so kids, go see it.

******
10 July 2003
7

There's no need to go on and on about this movie.  It's lighthearted, thanks
to Johnny Depp and the occasional nod to the Disney theme park attraction
which inspired it, and it's the sort of movie you have in mind when you
think of seeing a good, fun pirate/adventure movie.  If you want to see some
Academy Award winning film with the requisite brave character who dies from
some terrible misunderstood malady, don't waste your time with this movie. 
If you want to have some fun, a few laughs, and a reminder of good,
old-fashioned Saturday matinee popcorn adventure then go see this.  Even
better, go get Disney's "Treasure Island"  classic and watch it before you
see "Pirates of the Caribbean"---really get yourself in the
mood.

******
2 July 2003
10

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL is, quite simply,
the
best movie [so far] of the summer.  Certainly the most satisfying.  It
has
everything you could possibly want from a pirate movie...and more.   The
perfect blend of action, jaw-dropping visuals and tongue-in-cheek humor.
As
one would expect, there are numerous, yet subtle references to the
Disneyland Park attraction on which the film is based and moviegoers will
have fun identifying them.  Even the famous song "Yo Ho, Yo Ho, A
Pirate's
Life For Me!" makes sporadic appearances in the film, in fact, the movie
opens with it.  But it is presented in such a way that it never comes off
forced or "cheesy."While Jack Davenport, Jonathan Pryce, Kiera Knightly and Orlando Bloom
are
all excellent in their respective roles, it's Johnny's Depp's movie all
the
way.  Depp commands your attention every time he's on the screen and
clearly
he's having fun with it.  Very few actors could pull this feat off
without
going "overboard",  so to speak.  Only Geoffrey Rush comes dangerously
close
to fulfilling his destiny as a true pirate and stealing the movie away
from
Depp.  It is an honest pleasure to watch these two professionals on
screen
together.Summer moviegoers, tired of film disappointments and over-hyped sequels
will
be delighted by this cinematic thrill-ride.  Bring your sword and your
eye
patch, the swashbuckler adventure is back!NOTE: The PG-13 rating is for mild violence; TV show and video games
contain
far more graphic violence.  There is also no profanity or nudity.
However,
I dare the viewer to miss any of these with the well-written
script!

******
2 July 2007
2
Johnny Depp must work a potent magic on his admirers: by its power he's
able to communicate to them, and to them alone, the character he has it
in his head that he's portraying. The rest of us have to do a good deal
of guessing, since the actor goes only a little way in manifesting his
purpose by means of the normal external signs, e.g. facial expressions,
body language, tones of voice. Lacking these to go by, I hazard that in
this movie he thinks he's impersonating a would-be buccaneer who's
generally too drunk, lazy, incompetent, or good-natured to carry off
his boasted predations: a role for a W. C. Fields or Wallace Beery, not
a performer with the look and the aura of a spoiled altar-boy twenty
years past his prime. The star's deficiency might have been compensated
for in some measure by intelligent casting of the leading lady; but the
one we have here is Keira Knightley, doing her usual, i.e. wanly
striking poses for an imaginary photo shoot. The villain, Geoffrey
Rush, supplies the color and panache the other two lack; but there's
not enough of him to go around. The movie is rather at pains to present
itself as a piece of good fun; but for me it was a piece of hard work,
all on account of the director (the same one who bumbled up the
American "Ring"). He appears to have one virtue: shooting all the
script he has, so that all the pieces are there, as they often are not
in films these days. But the pieces are nearly all wrong: in the
staging, the perspectives and proportions are so far off what one might
imagine in reading the script (or any of its published story-izings)
that one almost has to revisualize the movie as it goes to get what
it's about. And the script, which is a mishmash at best, is confusing
in places. The first scene ends with the pirate ship bearing down on
its apparent target...and then what? Pondering this enigma distracted
me from subsequent developments for a good hour or so; not that they
compelled much interest in themselves. I feel a gallon of ill will
toward this movie: as a product for sale, which is all it is (it's a
lot farther from being a work of art than the amusement ride that
inspired), it's a piece of inferior merchandise, with its seams still
unfinished. Yet buyers seemed not to see that. Depp's magic at work
again?

******
15 October 2005
5
Pirates is potentially a terrible film rescued solely by the talented
cast and crew. The plot is as lame as a wooden legged sailor. The
directorial kiss of life is apparent right from the entrance of (not
so) Able Seaman Depp with a beautifully crafted and acted introduction
to the Keith Richards inspired pirate. As is so oft the case from
Hollywood a simply shocking plot never stands in the way of the lure of
gold. The pirates in this case are the accountants of tinsel town.
Geoffrey Rush hams it up in equal measure with Mr Depp and must wonder
whether his digital skeletal pirate is as transparent as the plot.
Laughing all the way to the bank is the phrase that springs to mind.
Enjoy at your leisure but expect to have sacrificed a few brain cells
by the time the credits appear.

******
6 August 2005
10
I'd like to ditto everything said above, however I'd like to comment on
the "flaw". It was explained several times why Turners blood was needed
to break the curse. The gold was cursed and the only way to lift the
curse is by retuning all the gold to the chest and paying a blood
price. and since everybody stole the gold (the pirates) all of them had
to pay the blood price, however, Bootstraps couldn't pay it because he
was dead at the bottom of the ocean, so his son (who had the same blood
as bootstraps) paid it for him, and the curse was lifted.Now about the movie, i definitely recommend this movie for everyone.
Its funny, action filled, and overall a good movie. i give it an A+++

******
22 July 2005
10
OK, maybe it was too long, maybe I was bored once or
twice...but...despite it, it was sooo funny in common that I can
forgive them (creators) weaker moments. The whole time - drunk Jack
Sparrow, performed by my all time favorite, Johny Depp...yeah, that was
brilliant. Even a very beautiful Kiera Knightly somehow disappeared
when Johny occurred:)) And after all, why is the rum gone?:))) I have
seen the film 5 times which is, in my small world...tooo much. And I
still love it. And the music fits, too. And the stunt-men are
formidable...the pirates, yeah, they even look bad:) well, most of them
:) Maybe the script is not perfectly logical, especially the last scene
with Barbossa...but OK, it's only a story, based on Disney World
attraction. I think, the crew made the best of it. And though I don't
like Nr. 2 and 3 normally, this time I'm looking fwd it:) See the
movie, it's better than most of the 250 best movies in this database:)

******
19 July 2005
10
Honestly, when I first started watching it, I was concerned, because
the main pirate (played by Depp) looked like he had some mannerisms
that I was going to find annoying. But I generally love Depp movies,
and I'm so glad I stuck it out! By the end, well, they didn't really
explain all his exaggerated motions, but, let's say it grew on me.This was a fun movie on every level, from just plain enjoying watching
Depp do what he does best, to the effects, to the story. I kinda regret
not having seen it on the big screen. I will surely be seeing the next
TWO, which are in production at this time.During one scene, he takes a swing at seducing a woman. Having enjoyed
watching Depp in a romantic role, I was surprised at how smarmy he came
off as when he was making his moves. Even though he is an attractive
man, he managed to make himself seem, unappealing? Is that even
possible? But it was fitting for his character, which is a testament to
his talent, as usual.The plot was interesting, they squoze all the ride scenes in, the
effects were REALLY good, and the swordfight scenes are just plain fun
to watch. Almost as good as the princess bride. :P

******
16 July 2005
10
I love this film, the kids love this film, my parents love this film.Its funny, its action, its tongue in cheek, well acted, well written,
well made. Its heaps of good fun, and solid entertainment.I think this comes under the category of a kids film with such a good
story and so well told that everyone enjoys it! Its a pirate horror
story over-played by the lead roles - who appear to be having loads of
fun making the film, that you can't help but love this film.If they ruin this film with poor sequels (like the Matrix .. ugh) heads
should roll. If they can keep the quality and story as good (like
Shrek, Aliens II..) they'll make a mint - and well deserved too!A film to lift the spirits. Good solid entertainment.

******
14 July 2005
10
I think this film is spectacular because it presents you a new and
stronger character: a ship. The Black Pearl inspired me suspense and
curiosity. The film gives you the sensation: "I want to be there". The
backgrounds are great, Johnny Depp has an amazing facility to interpret
a drunk pirate ( how strange..., is it a "casuality"? ). I think Johnny
Depp is the best actor in this moment, and I'm so proud to say: "I love
I'm". I really wish Vanesssa Paradise to disappear... but we are
talking about the film, I don't find enough mistakes to say: "This film
is crap". And if it is, well, I really don't matter, I love this film,
I love when Johnny says Elizabeth Swan: "Easy on the goods, darling" (
I wish being Elizabeth Swan in that instant ) and finally, I love
Johnny Depp. Sorry if I have spelling or writing mistakes, but I'm a
thirteen year-old Mexican girl... 10/10

******
8 July 2005
10
"Pirates" is without a doubt one of the greatest movies ever made!
Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Kiera Knightley, Jack Davenport, and of
course the esteemed Jonathan Pryce, come together to form the cast of
this amazing, sea-faring adventure! 10 years previously, Elizabeth
Swann mets Will Turner after he is rescued from a burning ship. Fast
forward to the present, and Will Turner is a dashing young man (an
unbelievably hot Orlando Bloom), hopelessly in love with the beautiful
Elizabeth. But before he can declared his love, Elizabeth is kidnapped
by pirates, cursed pirates looking for something that they desperately
need. Enter Johnny Depp, the mildly tipsy, rogue-ishly good looking,
and always charming Captian Jack Sparrow. He and Will set off to rescue
the girl, and thus start an amazing journey full of ghost stories,
curses, pirates, and of course, apples. Watch for the scene in the
treasure cave, where Jack Sparrow, mildly concussed, attempts to beg
for parlay... "par..parsip...pplla..."

******
1 July 2005
10
With the cross of a sword and the firing of gunpowder, you'll be hard
pressed not to fall in love with this story of betrayal and adventure.
Johnny Depp stars in this epic blockbuster as the infamous pirate
Captain Jack Sparrow, a man with charm, roguish good looks, and the
determination to reclaim his ship the Black Pearl, after he was the
victim of a mutiny from his ship mates. What he doesn't know that in
the town of Port Royal, the governors' daughter, Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightly) has been kidnapped by his deadly rival Captain Barbossa,
(Geoffrey Rush) the man who stole his ship. Teaming up with the
Elizabeth's childhood friend Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) the pair
embarks on a perilous journey to save Elizabeth and reclaim the Black
Pearl. What they don't know is a deadly curse has forced Barbossa and
his evil crew to live forever as the undead.

******
24 June 2005
10
When I went into the theater to see this film two years ago or so, I
knew I was in for a good movie. True, I had been a bit ignorant of the
previews at first, and the whole pirate genre didn't seem to excite me
much at the time (why, I don't know). But still, I had seen the
previews and been to the official website, and had pretty much grasped
the concept of the film. But it wasn't until the theater darkened and
the opening credits (or, uh, credit) came up on the screen that I knew
this would be a genuinely great film. From the opening moment with the
fog fading into the scene, I was captivated. Needless to say, I am now
a huge fan of this movie. Having seen it many, many, many times, it
never gets old for me. In my eyes, the casting was PERFECT, I wouldn't
change a thing. Orlando Bloom was transformed in front of my eyes from
the blond elf Legolas that I HAD known into the swashbuckling buccaneer
Will Turner. He certainly had the looks to back up his acting, which in
this film was wonderful. To me, no one else could have played the
dashing, yet modest young blacksmith better. Keira Knightley was
absolutely beautiful as Elizabeth Swann, and having only seen her in
Bend It Like Beckham, she came as a big surprise for me. She acted
superbly, and was the perfect choice for such a feisty young woman in
this period film. Geoffrey Rush is a new addition to my "favorite
actors" list, and his villainous turn as the evil Captain Barbossa was
very impressive. He was so gritty and grungy in this film, and just
took his role of seedy villain to a whole new level, adding depth and
emotion that I never expected. But, I must say, the most impressive
character to me was Captain Jack Sparrow, portrayed by the infamous
Johnny Depp! From the second he arrived on screen, I knew he would
certainly be a character to remember, and he was! I still find myself
quoting him from time to time, as dorky as that may sound! The
director, Gore Verbinski, did an amazing job, and I still can't even
begin to understand how hard of a job directing is! And from the
commentaries and documentaries I have seen, I respect him so much for
his hard work on this film. Jerry Bruckheimer did an awesome job as
well, and his special effects and explosions have become well known to
me in such movies as this one, as well as Pearl Harbor. Another person
I must say did such a fabulous job is Penny Rose, the costume designer.
Although costume designers don't get much credit, the costumes in this
film were lavish and beautiful, as well as dirty, gritty and very
pirate-y. This movie remains forever one of my favorite films, and is
so because of all it has to offer. For those sappy, mushy people out
there, yes, there is romance. For the gritty, hardcore action-fans out
there, yes, there are enough explosions, gunfire and sword-fights to go
around. For the Period-film fans, there is enough beautiful costuming
and eye-catching scenery to please all of your eyes. And for those
pirate fans in general, this is certainly a movie you cannot afford to
miss!

******
14 June 2005
10
With Orlando Boolm and Johnny Depp in the same movie there is never a
dull moment! I can wait until the next two movies!!!!My favorite part
of this movie is where Jack and Elizabeth are marooned on the island.I
also think the part where Elizabeth is on the Black Pearl and she tries
to stab Barboosa is kinda cool.But i don't like the part is when
Elizabeth says yes to Norington! I think it was smart to stand by Will.
I like the part where Jhonny Depp and Orlando Bloom are in his house
and they have that sword fight.I think the part where Jack is in the
house alone and he puts the hot metal rod to the donkeys butt is very
funny.It is so cool where Barboosa drinks that red wine. I also think
the part where the pirates walk under water is so cool.I really like
the part where Will and Jack walk under the canoe!If you have never
seen this movie you don't know what you are missing!!

******
9 June 2005
10
OMG This movie rocks! I love the part where the monkey just pops out in
skeletal form and he's holding the medallion. When I first saw that
part I screamed so loud the lady behind me went SHHHH! lol, best movie
eva!!!!!! I totally love this movie, and Johnny Depp, OMG.... He is
sooooooooooooooooo hot! I think he looks a little strange though in his
pirate outfit. And besides the skeletal form, I LOVE the monkey! He's
soooooo cute, and the pirate with the eyeball that he can take out is
funny. I especially like the part where the Intercepter (a.k.a Lady
Washington) is shooting things like spoons and forks out of their
cannons, and a fork hits that one pirates eyeball, and the other one
who's his friends tries to take the fork out and he takes the eyeball
out! Really great movie, loved it, love it, will always love it.

******
3 June 2005
10
I really liked this movie because it was generally quite fast-paced and
kept the viewer interested. There were a few parts in the movie where I
can imagine some people would get confused but I think the movie later
explains itself. I think the dialogue was good and the acing was
excellent. I really liked the character building throughout the movie
and I also like the little characters too. I think the scenery was
amazing with all the detail which I think plays an important part in
any movie but especially this one. I think that this movie is appealing
to younger children because of the whole pirate and sword-fighting
theme but older people because the more deeper side of the storyline. I
hope POTC 2 is just as good and well done to everyone on set specially
Johnny Depp! ;-)

******
31 May 2005
10
This film is seriously entertaining. The actors were really good even
the bit parts. This film has a good combination of wit, humor and
bravado as well as little tidbits of life's wisdom. The sparring scenes
are definitely a plus. I hadn't watched a movie in several years and
I'm glad this was my intro back. The good guys are really good and the
bad guys really bad but Johnny Depp manages to be both really good and
really bad. His character is what every gal dreams of; a bad boy with a
good heart. I found myself wanting to use some of the lines in it in
everyday life especially the daring do's. Over all the films ability to
draw you in is amazing. Every time I think of it I smile.

******
29 May 2005
10
My only regret in seeing this movie, is that I missed out on going and
seeing it in Cinema! Like many others, I thought a movie based on a
theme ride in Disney could not possibly offer much. I was WRONG! Johnny
Depp is brilliant, incredibly funny and mmmmmmmmm... Orlando Bloom is
brilliant and Keira Knightley is not half bad. The movie was fast
paced, had a good storyline and was acted out brilliantly. I loved it!My only thought now is that I was under the impression that the movie
had tied up all it's loose ends at the endings. Normally you come out
of a movie wondering "what ever happened to that one character". I did
not get the feeling from this movie so what could be in stall for the
sequel?

******
8 May 2005
10
While I absolutely loved this movie, and while I have been a huge fan
of Johnny Depp's since "Benny & Joon", I must say that toward the end
of the movie I found Depp's portrayal a little cloying. Most of his
portrayal was GREAT FUN, but toward the end when the Black Pearl and
crew arrived at the Isle de la Muerta, his actions and mannerisms got
so repetitious that I just wanted the movie to be over. It didn't help
when one of the pirates explained his behavior to Orlando Bloom's
character.I read later that Depp said he had based his performance on Keith
Richard(s). I've spent time around Keith in the past and, while that
"wavy gravy" thing he does is indeed one of his mannerisms, he does not
go around acting like that every split second. Sorry, Johnny, but your
portrayal during the last third of the movie was a little over the top
for me.Nonetheless, I eagerly await the second and third installments of
"Pirates" -- glad to have the blighters back in my life!!! Watching
Keith "portray" a pirate (and Depp's father) should be worth more than
one bottle o' rum!!!!

******
27 September 2004
3

Having fond childhood memories of old pirate movies and stories, I was
really looking forward to watch this one. I certainly didn't expect
some brain challenging epic, but good entertainment. I was
disappointed.Many things may be said of old, classic movies, but one thing is
certain, they generally had good scripts. What has happened to good
Hollywood scriptwriters? Don't they exist anymore or are they all
working for TV at HBO? This film has a potentially good story and a
completely pathetic script that results in a plot that most of the time
makes no sense whatsoever, with bad dialogue lines, and awkward twists
trying to disguise as "complex turns". Simple bad writing.At least they got someone witty to write Captain Jack Sparrow's lines.
Without doubt, the one outstanding thing about this movie is Johny
Deep's character and his rendition of it. It is very funny and
thoroughly enjoyable. Depending how you look at it, Deep's performance
is either wasted in this movie, or saves it.


******
23 September 2004
4

In theory, Pirates Of The Caribbean really could have been a good film.
What with Johnny Depp playing the campest pirate ever and a young
couple at the centre of it who just want to get together were it for
those damn undead pirates and the woman's fiancée. Such inspired ideas
however admirable can not salvage this film. Under the hand of director
Gore Verbinski, Pirates Of The Caribbean dispenses with character
development, comic timing and structure in favour of constant frantic
movement and an eagerness make sure that something is exploding,
somebody is falling down a trap or Johnny Depp is eliciting a wisecrack
every two seconds. Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom are hopelessly
bland when they should be appealing while the visuals suggest a much
cheaper film than its $115 million budget would have you believe. Some
critics have noted that Pirates would have benefit from a 45 minute
truncation of its running but even in its first quarter of an hour, I
found myself getting bored. The script is also weak, with Saturday
morning cartoon show level humour and not one inspired moment. The only
notable thing about this film is the clever CGI used on the undead
pirates and the lenience (and some might say praise) with which critics
have graced it.Do yourself a favour and see Disney's Peter Pan instead, it's a
funnier, more technically groundbreaking, more artistically credible
and infinitely more entertaining pirate film than this two and a half
hour bore. It'll probably keep your kids more entertained too, not to
mention it being more suitable for them.


******
22 July 2004
9

I loved this movie the first time I watched (when it was playing in the
theaters) and I loved it again when I watched it yesterday. And I bet I'll
love it the next time I watch it. It's a fantastic movie. I can't remember
the last time I had so much fun watching a movie. Did I mention I loved
every minute of it?This one has everything: good and entertaining story, well written script,
fine direction, good acting (excellent acting in the case of J. Depp), great
costumes and locations, nice looking effects, humor, cool characters,
swordfights, ghosts, romance, great villains. WOW!! In short, this movie is
awesome. And besides, pirates are cool!The best thing about the film is, without a doubt, J. Depp's character: Jack
Sparrow (sorry, I mean CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow). Depp delivers an outstanding
performance, effectively shadowing everyone else, as the goofy, somewhat
crazy pirate captain, proving once again he is a great
actor.If you expect deep ideas and dealing with important issues you won't find it
here, but if you just want to be entertained and have a whole lotta fun I
strongly recommend Pirates of the Carribean. I give it 9 out of 10 simply
because of the fact that it provides 2 hours of great fun no matter how many
times you've seen it. 

******
28 June 2004
5

This is another one of those highly over-popular films like the Lord of the
rings trilogy. Of the main cast, the only two actors that I liked were
Geoffrey Rush and Johnny Depp, but the rest, especially the over-pretty
girl, all make me cringe. The people that made the film were obviously
intending to make a swashbuckling classic, but instead they made a
swashbuckling pile of cow diarrhoea. It is insulting in the memory of such
real swashbuckling heroes of the cinema, such as Erroll Flynn. If this film
had been made in the 1930s it would have been a million times better without
a doubt, basically because it would be entirely different. I am going to get
murdered by the entire world's population of women for saying this, but
Orlando Bloom is nothing but another one of those really annoying
pretty-boys, but, to be fair, that is just the opinion of an ugly teenager
who has to go into school each week and watch all those bloody pretty-boys
snogging whoever they want, while all the girls look at me and in disgust.
But in my opinion, being ugly and being well aware of the fact isn't such a
bad thing. It makes you wiser. But that has nothing to do with the film that
I am reviewing so why the hell am I talking about it? Anyway this film is
pointless and overlong and completely pathetic, and I am pretty sure that if
pirates knew that this film was going to be made, they would have decided to
become regular bank-robbers. 5/10 (I am giving it such a high score for
Geoffrey Rush's sake. You rule Geoff.) 

******
17 June 2004
10

this movie was the best movie i personally think i have ever seen.i
highly recommend you buy the DVD as the bonus features are astounding
too.johny depp makes the perfect pirate and is also very funny in this
movie.orlando bloom does very well too as do all the actors.just when
you think its the last action scene there is so so much more to
come.this movie was really just larger than life.this movie is a must
see.after seeing this movie you will want to become a pirate yourself.
i watched this movie 5 times in a row and did not get bored once. just
trust me this is one of the best movies ever made!go rent it, buy it or
do whatever just see this awesome movie. you will not be
disappointed!!!


******
26 May 2004
10

well, first of all, I really didn't want to go see this movie, I wanted
to go to another, but now I'm happy I did. I don't say its without mistakes; it's a bit too long and some
characters are flat and blank and as usual in Hollywood, Will and
Elizabeth must be paired in the end... but no matter, it's still the
best movie I've seen for years, especially thanks to the great
performance of Johnny Depp, but also Geoffrey Rush helped it a lot.One thing I really don't understand is: what they want to make Pirates
2 about?!And that's about it...


******
19 May 2004
10

Have you seen it??? "Pirates of the Caribbean, The Curse of the Black
Pearl" What can i say? It is an amazing agglomeration of action and
romance that leaves the viewer, well, speechless... until you have
taken it all in that is!! I think, if i had to choose, the one thing
that makes this film, is the casting. How those characters are brought
to life is... wow! Take Johnny Depp (Jack Sparrow) for instance- how
versatile can one man be!! but i have to say "horray" for Orlando Bloom
providing the perfect balancing character to Jack (after all, a
character is what the actor makes it). The single best film i have seen
for a long time!!!! Watch it!!! Now!!! Go!!! Go!!!! Go!!!!!


******
16 April 2004
4

This movie, as 99% of Hollywood's productions, was made for kids and teens,
or people who think they are still kids. I don´t want to say it's bad or
stupid, it's just...like a floppy, disposable, toy. As an adult, I felt a
waste of time sitting down and trying to watch this kind of material, even
with one of my kids besides me, enjoying it. 
Saying this, if you take this movie seriously you can point out the
following: 1. It lacks of historical accuracy or even the remotest realism
(pirates were bandits blessed by the Queen who used to attack Spanish
vessels, I guess, or someone told me that). 2. All the characters are
caricatures from a comic strip 3. The plot is 0, nil, nought, zero. 3. The
formula: Maximum adventure with Minimum suspense (poor Hitch!) 5. Avalanche
of FX to keep the children amused. 6. No dialogs, no conflicts, no real
life. But, who wants these things today?  


******
1 February 2004
5

I expected more and I am disappointed. I mean there could have been more
suspense elements cause sometimes it was boring and too long.
They
could cut at least 30 minutes. I have to admit that the special
effects
and the picture were great. It is not a must see and I would recommend it to
teenies. I won`t see the sequel. Watch instead "The Ring" from the same
director which I really enjoyed.
My wife and I vote not more than 5/10. Just average.
On IMDb too overrated. I still cannot believe that this made over 300 Mio.
US$ at the box office.
I hope Hollywood will create more precious pearls than this black pearl.


******
8 January 2004
5

Oh my god this movie did not have to last this long.  The length of the
movie made it so unbelievably boring it was rediculous.  There were a
couple
times I knew nothing was going to happen so I made some calls, checked my
e-mail, etc...  Effects and cinematography were pretty cool hence the
reason
I gave it the five.  Wait until it comes on TV, unless you get a gift card
for a free rental or something.

******
4 January 2004
5

Before seeing it,I expected to relax and enjoy myself,but instead of dead
i
found myself almost asleep in the cinema because I couldn't stand the
bordom.Why?Primarily,the script is mixture of everything;first it is a
pirate movie,then it is love story,then a story about revenge and
honour(revenge theme is being quite popular in hollywood this
autumn,Mystic
River for example).The problem is that neither of stories functions too
well.Characters are not interesting and actors ,not including Depp, and
Rush,failed in intepretation of characters.Orlando Bloom 'brilliantly'
playing his role as if he was once again Legolas,but this time without
blond
wig.He even had a bit more lines to say then in the LOTR.Visually it's
impressive,few jokes are funny (all of them are Depp's).In one scene when
the girl realises she is on the cursed ship  and sees 'pirates' working I
was horrified that they are going to sing (Disney!!!).I rated the film
5/10
for only Depp's performance .

******
11 November 2003
6

When i went to see this i expected alot more of this movie, especially
since
everyone said it was a good movie. After seing it i had a mixed feeling
about this movie, if it didnt had Johnny Depp it would have been an total
flop. He saved the movie in my opinion, perfect acting and funny till the
end. This movie gave me the idea i was looking at a movie for kids of the
age of 12 or something... fun too watch at home but not in
theatre.

******
7 November 2003
6
Fun stuff, and I think Depp is definitely the best part about the movie.
My
major qualm with the film is that it was way too long, this could have
been
cut down to a 90 minute non-stop adventure movie. But instead it gets a
little repetitive and unnecessary at times (fighting the undead?).The second major annoyance was that the fight scenes were shot too close.
The cinematography was very fast paced and close up (remember Moulin
Rouge?), there are really no long drawn out panoramic shots here. This may
seem trivial, but I had trouble following the action, it seemed very
rushed
and inconsistent.The acting was pretty good, given the fairly straightforward, cut and
paste
adventure movie script. With the exception of Depp's eccentricity, the
dialogue is mainly to advance the plot instead of develop any interesting
characters. Geoffrey Rush overacts as normal but is an entertaining
villain.
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley are at times a bit stale, but otherwise
do
a decent job with the material.Overall, Depp is entertaining, and good swashbuckling action is rare these
days. I'd give it *** out of four stars...

******
20 October 2003
6

Pirates certainly was interesting. In fact, some of the droll, dark humor
was very unDisney-like (and enjoyably so). But the movie ran about two
hours, and would have been better at 90 minutes. Much of it involved sword
fights and plot twists that didn't add much. The plot was like a thread that
would be dropped for 10 minutes, then picked up again. Johnny Depp was
superb. What a strange character he created. It begged the question, though,
of how this goof could have lived more than 20 minutes as a pirate. Finally,
and a minor spoiler. if you end up cursed for stealing Cortez's gold, didn't
the governor's daughter steal the gold from the unconscious boy? Just
wondering. A good movie, which is a step in the right direction for Disney,
but undisciplined and meandering. We gave it a 6.

******
17 October 2003
6

Disney gets a little too goofy for my tastes. Depp's lines weren't really
all that funny and niether was a lot of the other unnessecary comic
relief... that is unless you were 12 year old or younger. Which is really
what this movie is meant for anyway, the kids of summer looking for a good
swash buckling Disney flick so they can play pretend pirates in the back
yard with their friends. Nice special effects, decent plot, bad characters
and couple of decent fight scenes make for a 6 outta 10 in my
book.

******
20 September 2003
6

Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom, these two actors have one thing in common,
they are not pirates. johnny Depp walks around like Boy George walked up
on
guffballs, too much makeup, no wonder the pirates kicked him off the ship
and left him on an island!! Orlando Bloom... well what can i say He´s
just
Legolas on a pirateship.To bottom line it, Pirates of the Caribbean is a very handsome movie with
two main caracters whos been casted to the WRONG film.


******
18 September 2003
6
If you still remember those old pirates movies with Errol Flynn, Walter
Slezak or Douglas Fairbanks (Sr and Jr) please forget them because this
movie has nothing to do with them not only because the means employed are
quite more developed but also because we are not in presence of a mere
adventure movie but before a movie which combines in well balanced doses
comedy, suspense, horror and of course also adventure and
action.
The images are fairly beautiful making a pleasure for the eye, both static
and action ones.
The characters are sufficiently typical and convincing and the stereotyped
traits of some of them are aimed at making you laugh.
And what about the story? Well as you know the story in this kind of movies
is always the weakest part with its usual flaws but we must tolerate it as
the necessary conducting wire giving a logical sequence to all the
scenes.
So if you don't have anything better to do or to watch go see this movie. It
will keep you fairly amused during more than two hours.
 

******
12 September 2003
3

really bad film. there is no script, lousy direction [Verbinski got even
worse since "the mexican (2001)"]and poor (cliche) characters.
***************** spoilers ********************what kind of pirate movie is this, without a bad guy?!? barbossa wasn't
evil
at all and english officer was a noble man. sparow was from beginning too
obviously a good guy. it should be more mixed character. maybe more
selfish
or something. missed genre is another thing: too much comedy and action,
not
enough adventure.
the worst are action sequences which are meaningless because pirates are
immortal. camera angle is changing too fast so you wont see any decent
sword
fighting neither. just ONE sea battle doesnt contribute much to the piracy
of the movie.**************** spoilers ***********************
actors were more than average - depp was (probably intentionally)
overacting, other were merely acting. special effects were nothing
special.
no better than in any other blockbuster.
i liked the make up though.

******
9 September 2003
7

To be totally honest...I didn't join the hype and the worldwide enthusiasm
when this movie was first announced. I was actually worried when I saw the
names of Johnny Depp and Jerry Bruckheimer listed together on one
movie-poster ! I always looked at Johnny Depp as he is Hollywood's last
"rebel" and seeing him in a big budget production ( like the average
Bruckheimer film is) would mean we've lost him too. By "rebel" I mean that
he chooses the roles he really WANTS to play. For himself or for his
Hollywood friends ( like Tim Burton for example ) 
So, in that way, I'm glad to admit I was wrong. Johnny kept his own personal
style and personality in this movie. The big money and the huge hype surely
hasn't changed his way of film-making. Pirates of the Caribbean is indeed on of the most enjoyable films coming
from the last few years and a must see to everyone who likes an original and
well made movie. But I wouldn't go so far to call it a masterpiece already.
I even saw they've included this film in the list of "250 best movies ever"
here on this website...That may be a bit soon, I guess. I prefer to await
its status within a few years whether to include it or not.But hey, no complaints from me neither... I saw it 3 times so far and loved
every single viewing.
Making a good movie about pirates is some sort of achievement to itself,
actually. This topic seemed to be "cursed" to itself ( oh, sweet irony )
because the last attempts of telling a story about pirates all resulted in
complete failures. Cuttroat Island by director Renny Harlin was a complete
disaster and it messed up the career of Geena Davis. Even the brilliant
director Roman Polanski didn't succeed in making an interesting movie about
pirates when he tried it, back in 1986.
Upcoming talent Gore Verbinski ( his version of the Ring was quite good as
well) did succeed and I find this to be quite remarkable...especially when
you consider the basic idea behind this film is a roller coaster-ride from
Disney Wold.Yes, Johnny Depp is great in it. I said it already and he got lots of
praising all over the world for his role, so I think it's not necessary to
mention him again. We all know Geoffrey Rush is an overtalented actor and
Orlando Bloom is well on his way to build up a great career as well ( not
many actors his age can say they starred in 4 of the biggest box office hits
of all time, even though 3 of them are part of a trilogy ). I didn't know
Keira Knightly yet but she looks cute.
In general, I think we can say the acting is flawless. There are also enough
fascinating plot twists and funny moments in Pirates of the Caribbean thus
it's certainly recommended !! I'd already recommend it if it were  for the
used language alone !! I love expressions like " Ye'd be lost to Davey
Jones' Locker" and several other, typical sayings. 
But if you really think there's absolutely nothing negative to say about
this film, I suggest you stop reading now because I do have a few minor
comments on it.
First of all there the CGI, I complain about this matter on most modern
films, but that's because it bugs me so much. I'm still convinced it's
possible to create a visual stunning film without the overuse of computer
effects but this movie didn't try to do so. Maybe it's for the best,
otherwise many (younger) fans wouldn't have liked it. 
And I do think this motion picture is a bit like its title...too long. I'm
not saying it becomes boring but 145 minutes is a bit long to tell the story
in my opinion. 
Furthermore...no remarks. Off you go...watch this film !!!


******
17 August 2003
9

At first glance, you can be forgiven for being sceptical about
Pirates
of the Caribbean. A movie title taken from a slow-moving, Disney theme
park
ride in a genre in which Hollywood has failed to make any real imprint
onto
since Errol Flynn's swashbuckling days. On closer inspection, however,
Gore
Verbinski's latest offering, penned from the writers of Shrek, boasts an
impressive cast and a trailer showing just a glimpse of some the amazing
CGI
special effects that no Summer Blockbuster can do without. So, did
Disney's
Pirates of the Caribbean 'shiver me timbers' or did it make me want to
run
off the nearest plank?
I am pleased to report that this film more than lives up to the preceding
build-up. It looks gorgeous (helped along by the fresh faces of our
disgustingly handsome hero, Orlando Bloom and his, 'bonnie lass' Keira
Knightley); it has just the right mixture of romance, action and comedy
and
is a showcase for one of the most mesmerising and innovative performances
this year (move over Errol, Mr Depp has landed.) Probably one of the most
underrated and the most unconventional actors in Hollywood, Johnny Depp
masters the character of Captain Jack Sparrow and creates a half-drunk,
half-insane pirate, delivering the gags with almost perfect comic timing
and
an assortment of hilarious mannerisms. Alongside Depp, Geoffrey Rush
plays
the villainous Captain Barbossa, doomed to live as a cursed man because
of
his greed and piracy. Rush ensures that Barbossa is a genuinely creepy
character whilst even managing to evoke a degree of sympathy for him as
he
wanders miserably through life in a desperate struggle to lift his curse.A script containing every ingredient you would look for in a movie of
this genre backs up these superb performances. Without ever taking itself
too seriously, Pirates of the Caribbean, embraces all of the old pirate
clichés, to produce a cracking story, exciting action sequences and
enough
double-crossing buccaneers to provide one of the most entertaining two
and a
half hours I have sat through. The CGI special effects create amazing
fight
scenes as Barbossa and his cursed crew exchange their human bodies for
that
of ghostly skeletons as they are hit by the glow of the moonlight. All
praise goes to the special effects team that created these seamless
transformations.
Not just a fun Summer Blockbuster but also the movie that has resurrected
the swashbuckling genre, Pirates of the Caribbean comes highly
recommended.
Yo-ho-ho, roll on the sequel!!! 9 out of 10.


******
4 August 2003
5

A boring movie based on an amusement park ride. This chick flick features
all the stuff the sighs and droopy eyes can muster: Swashbuckling sword
scenes (yawn), Romantic goo-goo eyes (yawn), and 40 year-old dream boat
Johnny Depp, doing a lousy job of faking an English
accent.......

******
30 July 2003
9
It's not going to be the best film you see this year, maybe not even
this month or this week...but it's refreshing and entertaining all the
way through thanks to some smart direction, a clever script, and a
delightfully off-kilter performance from the master of such turns,
Johnny Depp. Here's the reasons I liked this movie so much:1. Johnny Depp is a hoot. Jack Sparrow is by far one of the strangest
yet most endearing anti-heroes ever to grace the screen. You never know
if he is drunk, crazy, or cleverer than you. All of Depp's quirks and
mannerisms and line readings keep you constantly off guard and
entertained.2. Jerry Bruckheimer, the producer of some of the biggest film
travesties ever ("Armageddon," "Pearl Harbor") actually hired a
director who can sustain a shot, control epic scenes, pace a film, and
set atmosphere without tricky camera movements or overused special
effects (finally a summer movie where the effects aren't wall to wall
CGI and actually seem special). By delivering this after "The Ring"
Gore Verbinksi proves he is the best for-hire/hack director working in
Hollywood. He's into the old-fashioned razzle-dazzle type of
film-making, you know the kind that doesn't give you a headache and has
some scope and where you can actually tell what is going on in big
action set pieces. He can do family films ("Mouse Hunt"), horror
thrillers ("The Ring"), and now big-budget action adventures. Though he
shows no signs of being an auteur or having any kind of grander scheme
to his work, I can't wait to see what he tackles next.3. The film has a bloated run-time (almost two and a half hours) but
it's not because it takes itself too seriously or knocks you out with
set piece after set piece. You see, for the first thirty to forty
minutes this film actually provides exposition and develops characters.
What a novel idea! I had almost thought Hollywood forgot how to do
that.4. Last, but certainly not least, Kiera Knightly. She's got spunk,
she's hot, has a British accent, and some of the most natural acting
chops of any young actress working today.It made me forget that it was based on a Disney theme park ride and
that Big Jerry B bankrolled the whole shebang. All in all a heck of a
good time.

******
20 July 2003
4

Well, I liked the costumes and the sets.  You could tell they spent alot of
money making this movie.  The skeletons were fun.  But as far as the plot
goes, half the time it just felt like this confusing mess.  And while I
loved how Jonny Depp looked in this film, I didn't like the way his
character was written.  I felt like I was watching Richard Simmons in a
pirate costume!  I think I would have liked this movie better had it been
more of a horror film instead of an adventure movie.  I think it would have
worked scary.  I would have liked Depp's character to have been tougher.  I
guess this movie is okay if you like pirate films, but it just wasn't what I
wanted.  I would love to see it redone with alot of horror, but I know I'm
dreaming.  So, see it for the costumes, but don't expect it to be a great
film.  

******
12 July 2003
4

Nice effects but not enough to want to see this film again.   Just another
action film, the storyline has been done again and again. Formula,
formula,
formula.
I found myself looking at my watch too often.  The only saving
grace...Johnny Depp.  He is always interesting and if it weren't for him,
I
wouldn't have gone to see this thing.

******
11 July 2003
4

A friend with whom I watched this film summed it up better than I ever
could.  "I've never seen such convincing effects look so unconvincing."as for the meat of the movie, without Johnny Depp, we would have walked
out.
he saves this from being a miserable adventure flick and makes it into a
tolerable adventure flick.it's got lots of pretty visuals and swashbuckling action and whatnot, but
it
wasn't worth my $8.50.  matinee... maybe.  

******
10 July 2003
9

When I was first planning to view this film I must admit my expectations
where not that high. After all, the title did give a cheesy feel to the
whole thing. However, I must say that within 10 minutes of the film I was
completely spellbound by the film, characters, and plot. The fight scenes
where well done and not over dramatized, the animation of the skeletons was
smoothly done, and the acting was incredible. The most surprising factor was how Johnny Depp played his character Jack
Sparrow. Normally I am not a Depp fan per say, I enjoy his work but I don't
exactly find myself fascinated by it. This role, however, gave me a whole
different view of how truly talented Depp is as an actor. Depp took on a
whole different role that even varied in the way his character Sparrow
carried himself and mastered it like it was nothing.Bloom was also a pleasant surprise. A few minutes into the film in you
completely forgot about the elf and focused on the character in front of us.
After seeing Bloom in this film I can honestly say that he is not a typecast
and will well be on his way to the top. Rush was excellent as usual and
portrayed his role as `a captain so evil Hell spat him out' with such
humanity you actually felt a bit sorry for the cursed pirate.All in all, this film is a rare gem to come from behind the Disney vaults.
Along with the superb acting the writing, camera movement, plot, and timing
was perfect. Not once did you feel the length of the movie setting in like
`Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil' or like watching `The Lord of the
Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring' a third time. Humor, drama, action, and
adventure where perfectly balanced out to make this film the movie of the
summer. 


******
13 September 2007
3
It's been a while since I've seen it, but at least there's a chance now
that it will fall out of the top 250.I even bought the DVD of it because everyone said it is sooooooo great,
and I actually hoped that it might be something like a film version of
Monkey Island, which might be the best adventure computer game ever
made.I was totally disappointed, it was supposed to be a comedy, but only
moderately funny, and I dragged myself through watching it (maybe I
fast forwarded it, I'm not sure) and sold the DVD afterwards.I really don't get what's so great about it? Just an average Disney
story, a well known, good looking actor and a huge marketing hype, so
that even all the movie critics and the Oscar jury believe that it is a
good move doesn't make it good. If it's not entertaining or contains a
great, unusual idea, it could at least have contained some serious
message, but of course also didn't - so I just don't get it why
everyone likes it.At least I got most of my money back, but I still hope that some day
there will be a real movie using the Monkey Island Plot.What I've learned: Never buy a DVD (at least not for full price) just
because everyone says it's great.

******
8 September 2007
2
That's not exactly true of this overblown, over-budgeted, over-long,
and over-praised piece of garbage. I've seen plenty of things that were
worse. But this movie, which is somehow at the time of this writing on
IMDb's Top 250 page, was something I greatly anticipated seeing in
theaters.But I, like so many other fans of genuine cinema, was deceived and
betrayed. That is because this movie is just another in a *huge* line
of recent (dating back to the '80s) films that favor massive amounts of
special effects, action, and star power over any semblance of
substance. The special effects are good at certain parts (I like the
curse reveal), but you can tell they sucked up *far* too much money.
And the action is well-conceived, but a two-year-old could execute it a
darn sight better. And star power? Don't get me started-- it's sad to
think that Johnny Depp has ever been considered as being in that
category. He has no talent, no taste, and no respect for either himself
or his audience. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley have potential-- but
it all goes seeping out of their heads from just being around Depp
(watch the movie; I think you can see the leaks!)While not wholly poisonous, this dim and dull "blockbuster" is pretty
terrible. This is another high-profile example of the recent cheapening
of the American cinema.

******
22 October 2006
2
I cant believe how highly this film and Johnny Depp are rated. I
thought that Johnnny Depp as a pirate was about as believable as Tom
and Jerry. He minced on to the screen looking like a young girl who was
blacked up and given a false moustache and beard. His accent although
better than Dick van Dykes effort in Mary Poppins was unconvincing, and
the character was lame, effeminate and generally rather laughable. This
would be great French and Saunders material.In fact Jennifer Saunders
would probably be more believable than this!Action scenes were rather more convincing. sorry switched off, it was that tedious.

******
13 July 2006
2
I watched this movie with some friends at the cinemas a long time ago
and I'm reviewing it now because ads on TV about the sequel jogged my
memory. I can see now that Curse of the Black Pearl is very popular
among IMDb members, especially among females and young people. If you
are a young female you are much more likely to think you enjoyed this
movie than if you are an old man. That's what the demographic breakup
statistics say. I remember being very disappointed with this film and
one reason why I was disappointed was because it was so long. I
remembered getting up at the end of the film and because the film was
so long my butt was aching as if someone had jabbed a needle in it. I
am not averse to long movies but this one in particular was just not at
all entertaining. The first reason for this lack of entertainment I
think is the behavior of the characters. Johnny Depp's character is
deliberately crazy. If one of my friends were to act like that in real
life I would stare at him and after some time I would ask him, "Man,
what is wrong with you?" In this movie, I am consistent with my
behavior and badly wanted to ask Johnny Depp's character what was with
the crazy behavior, but of course Depp is just acting and I obviously
can't talk to the character through the theater screen, so that just
left me feeling frustrated. Most of the movie is filled with humor that
I didn't find funny at all, but many in the audience obviously thought
it was very funny. As with the Depp character the humor was just crazy
and weird, but of course humor is very subjective so it's a matter of
taste I suppose.Another issue I'd like to bring up are the fight scenes, which I
thought were very disappointing as well. The reason is because they
were very plain. Usually in a fight scene I like to see something
coherent. I want the camera to stay and I want the fight participants
to engage in intense, suspenseful, but also aesthetically pleasing
fights. The fight scenes in this film don't have that elegance. A bunch
of people just get together and the camera cuts and shakes as if we're
looking at everything from the perspective of a drunk man.The plot is another sorry part of the movie. That woman (as you can see
I'm not good with names) was your typical annoying pretentious woman
and at the end when she kisses the guy I actually said out aloud in the
theater, "Oh, please!" How clichéd can you get? It's like a fairy tale
your parents might read to you as a kid.

******
22 April 2005
10
Why do the pirates of the Black Pearl need Will Turner's blood to lift
the curse? Easy peezy and this is (not clearly) explained in the film.
Because Will's farther, Boot Strap Bill, was sent to Davey Joan's
Locker, after the treasure was taken from the casket, therefore he
could not appease the cure for the treasure he stole. Therefore, the
blood of his siblings must be used to represent him as the pirates
return the gold to the casket and appease the curse. Hope that helps in
explaining the plot hole, well, that's how I and my mates saw it.This is one of those rare films I can watch again and again and again,
because it is so entertaining! I love a good swash and buckle like the
rest of em' and this is one of the best!

******
11 February 2005
4
A tiresome Walt Disney kiddies movie with appalling dialogue and a
Bodger Award for the most dreadful performance by a leading actor in a
major movie of all time. Everyone just woodenly and stiffly and badly
moves through this movie repeating their dreadful lines with a lack of
enthusiasm. Some embarrassment is evident. The storyline is pathetic
and boring and dull. The initial action is limp and dull. In fact dull
is the key word. Dull and boring and bad and wooden. And how on earth
did this ever get filmed. Surely it can't be that hard to make an
exciting, interesting and worthy pirate movie in such pleasant
locations? The movie does pick up toward the end with some decent fight
scenes, and a bit of swashbuckling, but it's too little too late.

******
19 October 2004
8
This film has several good reasons to go and see it:1) It's funny, exciting well worth seeing.2) Its got Johnny Depp. Reason enough. You'll like Jack Sparrow far
more than Will Turner, I can guarantee that.3) Geoffrey Rush. Again, enough reason to see it. I wouldn't call him
frightening, just scarily cool, dark and ugly. Very different role to
the voice over of Nigel the Pelican.If you like him 4) Orlando Bloom... not good reason. He's pretty. Can't
say much else about him though. He was better in Lord of the Rings.
He's better being silent, elf-like and graceful. 5) Keira Knightley... *shudders*... is better off playing people like
Jules in Bend It Like Beckham: half friendly and half bitchy. Bizarre
face: she's got a dazzling smile but a really pinched disgusted look
the rest of the time. Not the best choice foe Elizabeth Swann.6) Johnny Depp again.7) It's fun. Really. And its got really impressive effects. It might
not be the best pirate film to come out for a while, but it enjoyable
all the same.

******
7 June 2004
10

Pirate lovers have been waiting for a movie like this since the days of
`Waterworld' and `Cutthroat Island.' Set in Port Royal, an island
historically associated with pirates, and based on a Disney world ride, the
movie follows Orlando Bloom as a sword smith with a dark past, who enlists
the help of famed pirate (Depp) to rescue the object of his affections
(Knightly). To go in more detail would take hours because, unfortunately the
plot's long-winded and has more twists and turns than one can keep up with
in one sitting. Nevertheless, while Pirates veers into the basic formulas
and clichés of any other pirate movie, it does so with purpose and style, to
make a quality ride out of a familiar outing. The movie also has some truly
original elements, most notably Depp's performance as Jack Sparrow, a name
you'll remember long after you see this movie.

******
16 March 2004
5

I'm surprised about the great rating this movie got. It's basically just
stereotype and
rumination of old themes. It's done in an ok way but there's nothing
really
special. The
effects were up to date
as one would expect. And yes, Johnny Depp is a very good actor. But was
this
movie witty,
inventive, creative or... pensive? None. To make it a good movie it should
have had some of
these qualities. Once the [i]curse[/i] is revealed the plot drags on
lengthily. Yes, you know
right from the start who is at the bottom of it (after all, you don't cast
J. D. for nothing). And
yes, the 'love' story with the two youngsters and the evil Brit (the
villain
is British, how new!
[b]yawn[/b]) is genuinely disingenuous. Don't get me wrong, I always enjoy
love stories, this
one too, and a young'un that fights for his love is always engaging. But
they would have done
the actors more justice if they'd missed out on [b]some[/b] clichés.I wouldn't watch it twice. As a friend of mine put it 'it's a silly
movie'.
Come to think of it, I
think
that's a compliment.

******
20 September 2003
2

Good Pirate Comedy Adventure Film for the whole family. The story lacks
spirit and depth but still manages to keep from sinking. Very good acting.
Johnny Depp portrays his character very well here also. A liitle too watered
down but this is due to the Walt Disney style. Only for big fans of family
style Adventure Comedy films and fans of the lead actors........

******
13 July 2003
3

Whoa is me.  Johnny Depp didn't take this film very seriously.  I know it's
not a serious film but actor decisions are and either he or the director
made some very bad choices for the Captain Sparrow character. He was so
swishy.  Who is the hero in this film?  No one.  I didn't care about any of
these people.  In addition, this is a two joke movie: 1) Look mom. The
pirates turn into skeletons in the moonlight at least 1567 times.  Isn't
that fun?  2) Look mom.  An eyeball has a fork in it and it rolls along the
ground and it falls out of that guys face and...Isn't that fun?  Nope. It
isn't fun or funny or interesting after the first time.  And although the
combat scenes are well choreographed - ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!!!!  I fell asleep
twice.  I was sooooo disappointed.  I really wanted to like this
film.

******
13 July 2003
3

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" has to be one
film
I'm addding to my "Worst Films of 2003" list."Pirates" has to be "one" of the oddest, strangest, most over-the-top, far
out, blockbuster film's of the summer 2003 lot. For starters, director
Verbinski isn't enough of a stylist to pull off the script's delicate
balancing act. As he showed with the "The Mexican" Verbinski has problems
finding just the right tone between humor and adventure. The film is never
quite funny enough to make us forget that dramatically it's pretty slim
stuff. With is combination of action, comedy, over the top acting, big
sets
and one-liners this movie couldn't be taken too seriously for an action
film
and it so far off the map that it couldn't be called a
comedy.For one thing Johnny Depp, who delivers what has to be the strangest lead
performance in a $150 million Hollywood production to date, and has to be
the only one brave enough to play a gay drunk pirate this side of the
Caribbean. Wait until you see what Depp does here. You can't take your
eyes
off him!! He is funny, crazy and he over takes every single scean he is
in.
Even Geoffrey Rush is over shadowed by Depps's over the top
performance.Geoffrey Rush was great in his role as Barbossa, and it shows what a great
actor Geoffrey Rush really his; and how multi-talented he really his even
when he sells out to crap like "The Banger Sisters" or "pirates" He can
make
a really bad role work for him. But it was Depp's film and he ran with
it!Keira Knightley, well not much to say except she is a really bad actress
and
how many times do we have to set her either wet or getting her clothes
ripped off with out once having bad hair or runny make-up?Orlando Bloom was flat, his character was a cardbaord cut out of every
single character out to rescuse the woman he loves and finds himself an
adventure."Pirates" was a bad movie, but Depp's over the top performance was the
best
thing and the only thing besides the over top F/X and interesting story
line
that keeps this mess afloat!Yes folks; the story had promise. Real promise. But somewhere between
directors Gore Verbinski ideas, and producer Jerry Bruckheimer's ideas the
story somehow merged 2 diffrent out looks with no real mediuem. The whole
film felt like "Treasure Island" meets "The Fog"!With a running time of two hours plus, "Pirates of the Caribbean" feels
terribly flabby, even the over the top battle scenes are so drawn out we
start to lose interest.Depp's odd performance should probably make this film live on as a cult
classic and become recognized by film buff's as a bad film that we
love.One word to describe "Pirates" is "BIZZARE"! 

******
12 July 2003
3

Okay, what the hell happened?  Yesterday, I checked here to see what
people
were thinking of this movie, and judging by the comments, it looked like a
good movie to see with my girlfriend.Ugh, not even close.  I gave this movie a 3 in the vote, and that was for
its only redeeming feature, Johnny Depp's performance as Captain Jack
Sparrow.  Without the characterization he gave, this movie had nothing,
nothing to hold my interest.The love story was uninvolving.  The pirates were kind of cool, and the
action was decent.  But you know things are going bad when at one point in
the movie, you're laughing because the lead actress's lipstick glaringly
sticks out considering her circumstances at the time.  Set in colonial
times, and lacking access to anything remotely resembling Revlon, I
couldn't
decide to laugh or groan at such poor makeup, direction, and review.The only reason I would recommend this movie to anyone is if someone is a
fan of Johnny Depp.  He was excellent.  But rent it, don't spend your
money
at the theater for this.

******
8 July 2003
8

Say `Pirate Movie' in a crowded theater and you're likely to be facing a
mutiny or a stampede, and for good reason:  the rollicking adventures
popularized by Robert Louis Stevenson and brought to life by Errol Flynn
have, of late been replaced by overblown soulless drivel along the lines of 
Polanski's `Pirates' or `Cutthroat Island'.  Jerry Bruckheimer and Johnny
Depp to the rescue.Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is quite likely the unluckiest pirate
alive:  after  having suffered the ignominy of mutiny and being marooned, he
finds his way to port in the one town that has a serious hate on for
pirates.  If that weren't enough to spoil his already bad day, Sparrow is
thrown back into the fray when he promises young Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)
 that he will help rescue Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), the young woman
kidnapped by  Sparrow's  old enemies.  Oh, and there's that pesky little
curse to contend withLet me state from the outset -  this is a fantastic movie that epitomizes
what a summer movie should be.  It features  oodles of action  both in the
form of swashbuckling sword fights and big time explosions, is packed full
of accessible humor, boasts great special effects (note: not gratuitous),
has beautiful and eerie locations, nasty villains, reformed heroes and
fantastic performances.  Am I making it clear that I liked this
movie?Orlando Bloom is solidly low key in his first post `Lord of the Rings'
outing, and makes good use of the martial skills he leaned while filming the
trilogy.  His character is equal parts tragic and noble, and he balances
these  the facets well.  While Elizabeth could be rightly classified as the
obligatory damsel-in-distress of the piece, she most certainly is not
helpless  Knightley brings the same determined  empowerment that she
displayed in `Bend it Like Beckham'.   You have to give props to any woman
who can act and kick butt while bound in a corset and frilly fluffy dresses
(and yet somehow manages to look even more beautiful while doing so 
forgive me, I'm only human). Geoffrey Rush is deliciously devilish as
Captain Barossa the dark hearted scoundrel of the piece, the, who dispenses
death the with a smile.  You know he's bad just by looking at the man's
teeth!  And then there's the Depp factor.Johnny Depp could long ago have been a major Hollywood star  he certainly
has the charisma, the drive and enough  talent for a few careers  however
he's made a conscious decision to stick with character driven  films, which
are often only found in artsy or  edgy films.  Thankfully  he chose to
tackle this role with the same fervor Depp is hilarious as John Sparrow,
the glib roguish pirate cursed with a streak of goodness and bad luck, who
seemingly dances between madness and lucidity.   To say that his portrayal
binds the film would not be indulging in hyperbole, as he brings all the
elements of the story and the characters together.  Is that all there is you
might ask?  Not even close.****Okay, I'm going to give you a warning here  if  you haven't seen the
trailers some potential spoilers lay  ahead****. The CGI work in this films is remarkable on several fronts:  the film does
not rely upon them, they are not excessive and they actually enhance the
film.  The characters'  transition from human to skeleton and back (there
sequences are rapid and many) are amazingly fluid and realistic.  Need more?
  The swordfighting are beautifully choreographed, the city sets are
brilliant, the pyrotechnics in the battle scenes are pure Buckheimer (read: 
big, loud, and many) and the film is also fit for the youngsters.If you're in the market for a film that will appeal to anyone between the
ages of  5 to 95 , look no further. 


******
21 June 2005
2
this is straight up kids fare. I mean I just saw the last twenty
minutes on TV and it was horrible! It reminded me of the original
Treasure Island, which I saw at age 10 or so. The "romance" was
horrible, the dialogue was horrible, it was unbearably corny, Johnny
Depp turns into a skeleton man and then back, why I don't know, Orlando
Bloom was cute but not much use. Johnny must have done this in order to
get the free dread extensions, which were also horrible and changed
ornaments every five minutes---would he have time to do his hair while
waiting to get hanged??????????? ARrrrrrghhhhhhhhhhhhhh the gold stuff
looked like stuff you get at Burger King. Ick!

******
22 June 2004
5
There's a slew of classic films that haven't made it into the IMDb top
250, but at the time of writing, "Pirates of the Caribbean" has
achieved a comfortable place among the best films of all time -
presumably because Kiera Knightley is hot and Johnny Depp is funny,
right? I mean, I can't think of any sensible reason.Truth is, this is a fun little potboiler that is way too long (people
complain that Harry Potter is padded?) and completely lacking in
anything resembling drama. The script has the same cringe-inducing
qualities as the average Hollywood blockbuster, including the Mandatory
Irksome Catchphrase that is continuously spouted by characters even
though it wasn't funny the first time ("they're not rules...more like
guidelines!"). If Depp didn't spend the whole movie wobbling and acted
brain-fried, viewers would all be bored to tears.I must confess that the sets and costumes are impressive, and I enjoyed
seeing the spectral pirates marching to attack the ship. I can see
liking this movie - I can even see loving it - but a classic? I think
everybody gave "Pirates of the Caribbean" an "8" because it's a
crowd-pleaser, and somehow that's enabled it to rise way above where it
ought to be in the rankings, which is definitely somewhere below "The
French Connection."P.S. Forgive a quick aside about Roger Ebert. I like his reviews of
classic movies, but he seems out-of-touch when commenting on recent
ones; he thinks "Van Helsing" is better than "Spider-Man," for example,
and he labels the third Harry Potter the weakest in the series. Most
bizarrely of all, he argues that Kiera Knightley is not attractive in
this movie. Does anyone, in the entire Universe, agree with that
assessment?

******
2 April 2004
2

Aside from Johnny Depp's Quirky performance -- always worth watching -- this
was a pretty lame attempt at action-comedy. The special effects were of
course competent, and the camera work was good, but the writing and plot
were thin and amateurish.  Perhaps I should not have expected more, given
that it's just a Disney SFX vehicle with a bankable lead, but I thought this
fell far short of the hype. The apparent premise that some of them were dead
and cursed to go on and on ... it seemed to change somehow toward the end,
as if no one was sure what the rules really were. It's set up of course for a seQuel, probably even lamer than this one. I
wouldn't have minded if I hadn't paid four bucks to see the thing on Pay Per
View, but I guessed wrong on this one.

******
21 March 2004
2

Without Johnny Depp, this basically animatronic mess would have been ignored
by anyone with half a brain.  But the general reactions to it underscore one
aspect in particular:  popular films, whether truly good or truly bad, have
lately demonstrated that a large component of the viewing audience haven't a
clue about what constitutes good cinematic art.While many of us of a certain age look at movies as an extension of dramatic
art moving forward in time from Aristophanes to Arthur Miller, just as many
if not more of us seem to evaluate them based primarily on the sort of
criteria usually reserved for rating computer games and cartoons. 
Literature and history be damned; if it ain't got visual sparks, it ain't no
good.I did manage to stay awake through this one, wondering from time to time
what the hell I was doing it for.  Depp provided the sole depth, an ironic
gem in the midst of a sea of motile muck.

******
25 January 2004
3

This is one of those movies you hate to pan, everyone on screen seems to be
trying so 
hard to make something out of the material. Sometimes, even the best efforts
can't 
rescue a plot thinner than the skins of the villains. And therein lies the
problem. All the 
special effects, all the fencing, and ship to ship fighting, can't rescue
this film. Given the 
lack of a story worth hanging a hat on, Johnny Depp does his best to give
the film a 
center, but he is undercut. On one side is Geoffrey Rush chewing scenery
faster than it 
can be built. I keep hoping to see him in a role that requires some
subtlety, because I 
believe he is capable of greater things than anything I've seen him in
recently. On the 
other side are Orlando Bloom and Kira Sedgewick gamely trying to give the
film some 
romance. If only they were given some material to work with. At best, this
film is a good 
way to spend a couple of hours where the alternative is banging your head
against the 
wall. 

******
8 May 2005
4
*Minor spoilers*Much praise has been held over 'Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the
black pearl', and not one, but TWO sequels are in production.The movie is also rated 7.9 and #227 (today, may 08 2005). The cast is very good, but the script and plot is WAY to cheesy for me
to take in. I find it ironic that a very good movie like Master and
Commander, who is also a pirates-vs-soldiers movie and a hell of a good
one at that, aiming for realism, gets surpassed by Potc with a plot of
undead pirates walking on the bottom of oceans and turning to bones by
night? There's also a lot of bridges that doesn't really add anything
to the action (the movie tops 140 minutes), which only becomes an
annoyance. Fun for 11-year olds mayhap, but for us a bit older... Crap. Go see
Master & Commander if you want a movie with some story. 4/10

******
1 March 2005
2
I usually love anything that Johnny Depp is in, but this film is an
exception, mainly because they picked the worst actress in the world to
play the leading lady. Keira Knightly is given so much credit about
being the finest female actor in Britian, I think however that her
acting in this film somewhat contradicts this statement. She is truly
terrible, the only bit i thought she was good was when she fell off the
castle wall. But otherwise this film is quite good, i thought Johnny
Depp was brilliant playing Jack Sparrow and also looked gorgeous in the
process, which isn't very hard for Johnny Depp. Unfortuanatly i could
only bear to watch this film once because of keiras unemotional
presence and Orlando Bloom being overcast by Johnny's shadow.

******
10 February 2004
2

I have already done a review for this film, but I have recently learned that
Depp will receive an Oscar nomination for his performance?  That is a
travesty, the movie was a silly action film, and his performance was hardly
the calibur of other great performances that rightfully received Oscars like
Humphrey Bogart, Paul Newman, Tom Hanks, Kevin Spacey and many many others. 
It is horrible that Johnny Depp got nominated, but if he wins this will be
an abhor ration to the Academy and one of the true mistakes in the history
of the Oscars.

******
4 February 2004
4

I'm not much of a fan of Disney movies, pirates and Johnny Depp so I was
really reluctant to see this Disney flick. I was pleasantly surprised by how
the movie started. I was actually riveted, by the funny action and the
amazing performance of Depp. Like I said, I'm not a Depp fan and I usually
can't stand him in anything but as Jack Sparrow, Depp is totally amazing.
Depp created a real character here, no matter how campy he is.
Unfortunately, once the pirates invade the port and the story concentrated
on them, the film became really tedious and I didn't care about anything.
The film should have concentrated more on Sparrow and the two other
characters. The pirates, or ghosts, are devices and it's almost impossible
to care for them. The story became sillier and sillier and Depp, who's the
ONLY good thing in this movie, went missing for long periods of time. Bloom
and the actress were pretty much flat. And this film is very LONG!!! Oh
well...

******
27 January 2004
2

All the action in the world couldn't save this poorly laid out story from
practically putting me to sleep.  Johnny Depp's performance (despite the
Oscar nomination) has got to be his worst in what has otherwise been an
accomplished career.  The camp, the predictability, and the ridiculous
characterization almost caused my friends and I to walk out after the first
twenty minutes....I wish we had.

******
16 July 2003
3

The only thing memorable about 'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the
Black Pearl' will be Johnny Depp's usual out-standing performance.I can only hope that this 'Blockbuster' featurette won't do for his acting
career what "Leaving Las Vegas" did to Nick Cage's.  Remember Nicholas Cage,
a quirky, interesting actor who was almost always worth watching, no matter
how bad the movie?  Then his big moment in "Leaving Las Vegas", and he
hasn't done a thing worth watching on-screen since then, including his
woefully lackluster performance in Martin Scorcese's 1999 film, "Bringing
Out The Dead", where Mr. Cage would only be considered interesting in
contrast to John Goodman's typically bombastic, bizarre, supporting-actor
overdoses.Now it's Mr. Depp's turn as an actor.  Either he will continue to pick and
choose his movies based on the merit he sees in them as an actor, along the
lines of the late, great, Gregory Peck, and the still living, and equally
astounding, Meryl Streep; or, he will pick and choose his movies based on
how much money someone is willing to pay him for his 'appearing in' their
studio's (insert studio name) production of (insert producer's name and/or
production company name)  film directed by (insert director's name), and
starring (insert actor's name).I am rooting for the uniqueness of Johnny Depp, of course.For a movie as over-produced as "Pirates of the Caribbean" is, with the
occasional well-done special effect (which should be a given considering the
money spent), and interesting costuming (especially in the 'heaving-bossoms'
scenes), some of the 'special effects' come off rather mediocre in
comparison to better done summer fodder.  The distance shot of the burning
Port would have been at home in Alfred Hitchcock's "The Birds".  The
underwater skeleton-walking scenes looked like out-takes from "Clash of The
Titans".The humor of the movie is also in question, first during the looting of the
British Naval Port and attacks on it's citizens by the pirates, with scenes
of murder and attempted rape, played on film as quasi-comedy (in someone's
seriously disturbed idea of entertainment); and also during the scenes when
British Sailors are being slaughtered left and right onboard their own ship,
immediately after the Pirates' underwater skeleton-walking scene, although
these sailors are mostly being dis-embowelled off-screen so as to further
distance us from contemplating the possibility of their deaths, and we are
coerced instead into laughing at a Pirate's severed boney claw, clutching
for the cowardly Governor Swann's throat.  A character foppishly over-played
by Jonathan Pryce. Can anyone say "Vincent Price" cheese-ball?The dashingly pretty Orlando Bloom, as Will Turner, barely registers a
ripple of a human nuance, rather like observing an interesting wall-paper.
Likewise for Keira Knightley, as his longed-to-be-statuette-on-a-pedestal,
Elizabeth Swann, the (of course!) Governor's daughter.  For a good acting
comparison see Kate Winslett in "Titanic". Both parts seemingly conceived by
a group of writers discovering cheap plastic glow-in-the-dark religious
icons for the first time and attempting to pass them off as feminine Heaven.On screen for an hour too long, with convoluted plot 'twists' packing the
wallop of moist cardboard, character actors required to do uninteresting
comic 'bits' that might amuse a two-year old, screen-writing that barely
rises to a fourth grade school play, wooden acting filmed along the lines of
"Stand there and don't move while we shoot the scene", yet another 'typical'
Hollywood feel-good ending, and, voila!, this summer's simple-minded
Block-Buster movie is completed.On to the usual mass-merchandising, burger chain tie-ins (no matter how
oddly far-fetched), and 'direct-to-DVD' sequel(s)!  Thank you very much.

******
22 February 2005
5
God bless Johnny Depp, for without him "Pirates of the Caribbean" would
be just another empty big budget studio extravaganza - juvenile,
bloated and over-reliant on stunt work and special effects. But thanks
to Depp's brave and witty performance, the film rises above its own
inherent weaknesses to become at least a halfway entertaining picture.
He is the real treasure here."Inspired" - if one dares use so lofty a term - by the Disney theme
park attraction of the same name, "Pirates" takes us to the never-never
land of swashbuckling heroes and shiver-me-timbers foolishness. Depp
plays Captain Jack Sparrow, a pirate who was left for dead on an island
by his mutinous crew. Sparrow, captain of the legendary Black Pearl, a
ship with the reputation for possessing evil, unearthly powers, has now
returned from his exile and is ready to exact revenge on the mates who
abandoned him. There's really no point in thrashing out the complicated
but essentially simpleminded plot here. Suffice it to say that it
involves a diabolical curse, a literal ghost ship with a literal
skeleton crew, a feisty damsel-in-distress and enough repetitive
swordplay and "avast me, hardy" dialogue to keep the action adventure
crowd purring with contentment.For all the care that has gone into the look of the film - the
costumes, set design and computer-generated special effects - "Pirates
of the Caribbean" would sink pretty quickly were it not for Depp giving
his all to keep it afloat. His lisping, flamboyant, over-the-top
approach to the character is exactly what this stale little tale needs
to lift it above the ordinary. One has only to see Depp mincing around
- where anyone else in the part would have been swaggering - to verify
what we have known all along about Depp as an actor, which is that he
is willing to take risks and explore different avenues when tackling a
role, even one as lightweight and insubstantial as this one. He turns
what could have been a mere walk-through, check-cashing part into an
inspired comic turn. One can only imagine what a boring movie this
would have been without him. For, indeed, the story itself is silly and
the other characters (except for Geoffrey Rush's evil Captain Barbossa)
stiff, dull and uninteresting. But Depp is the real deal, and all I can
say is that I hope he received a large percentage of the film's
phenomenal box office booty. Like any good pirate, he deserves it.

******
13 July 2004
2

Yes, dear Disney fans your dreams have come true. Your youth can be
prolonged. There is an other formula that will turn the average adult
into a giggling teenager. I have seen it happen in a big cinema in my
city. Mature folk that went hysterical by the dozen as flying cutlery
landed in eyeballs. Please man, stop it! Go see a flick to get out of
the daily routine, but please stay a bit critical. Just for the record:
These words do not sprout from the mind of a bitter person, but from a
bitterly disappointed one. Once again a great concept has been
completely overdone in the wrong direction. It has been said before and
that does strengthen me to discuss it one more. This genre is weirdly
annoying 'the portrayal of gruesome (in this case 18th century
buccanic) violence combined with Uncle Walts very own vision on
slapstick'. What is the message and who is supposed to be addressed? Is
made for big children or for small adults? In one way you might say
that in works for those you have a good time watching this film. In an
other way I would like to take great distance from exactly those people
over 18 that reward this flick with anything over a 4. Hereby I do so,
bunch of gullible kid souls. I declare I was in the wrong place at the
wrong time. My mistake, 'cause I had wrongfully set my sights on
something like Mutiny On The Bounty (1962 and 1984) meets Master And
Commander(2003).


******
9 May 2004
7
8.0 is a much too high rating for this good but not great movie. I like
the fact that a movie finally does justice to pirate stories. It's
strange that this genre, which sure holds a few adventures in store,
hasn't been too successful until "Pirates Of The Caribbean" hit the
screen. Anyway, "Pirates..." is just that, a funny adventure in the
tradition of "Indiana Jones" and "The Mummy". It's got everything:
ghost pirates, abandoned islands, a beautiful governor's daughter and a
brave young hero (or two heroes that is). The dialog is witty although
I feel that it could be even wittier. The direction and the special
effects were not too special (nothing compared to Gore Verbinski's
great job for 'The Ring'). It was funny to see Steve from "Coupling"
and Gareth from "The Office" on the big screen for the first time. They
should have brought Jeff in as well! All in all "Pirates..." is a fine
popcorn movie and surely the summer's best Blockbuster. I hope that
maybe after the success of this movie, Hollywood thinks about turning
"Monkey Island" (the classic adventure game by LucasArts) into a movie.
Just a thought.

******
26 February 2004
3

Could their be a more over-rated film this year. While okay in part, I think
the main reason behind it's success is the fact that some people take a
liking to Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom. It has problems classifying what
type of film it is. Not enough action to be a action film. Not enough laughs
to be a comedy. It has also been put up for major awards, yet it is clearly
a blockbuster. 'Its both of these,' you may say. That is not the case as the
poor attempts at jokes do not work. Johnny Depp probably deserved his Golden
Globe nomination, not his Oscar nomination though. His character, along with
everyone elses, is one-dimensional and conforms to stereotypes. Bloom plays
Legolas very well to say the setting has changed. the other actors are
fairly decent in their roles. A plot that i could predict in my sleep and a
boring script prevent it from being good. What could have been a great 90
minute blockbuster has been stretched to 2 and a half hours on a plot that
cannot manage it.*1/2 out of ****p.s. It has been hyped up recently. If you have'nt seen it yet, don't.


******
9 September 2003
2

Pirates of the Caribbean was about the stupidest movie I have seen in
quite
awhile.  The plot was horrible, the writing was bad, and I was soooo happy
when this movie was finally over.  What kind of crap was this?  It was
horrible.  Johnny Depp did a fair job, and was the only decent character
in
the film.  Geoffrey Rush. Normally a great actor is absolutely horrible
here, HORRIBLE!!!!Why did he do this movie?  I will admit the first part of the movie did
have
some good action sequences, but that is the only good part of the film.
The
rest of it is bloated stupid fantasy.  The concept was real good, a high
seas pirate adventure, with sword fighting, sailing and all of that, but
it
slowly turns into a mess.There are so many films out there to watch, do not and I repeat do not
watch
this one.  It is without a doubt one of the stupidest movies I have seen
in
a long time.  Maybe I have missed something though, this made it to the
IMDB
top 250 list, I think this movie almost belongs on the bottom 250, but
it's
not quite that bad.  I might be alone, but in my opinion, stay away at all
costs.


******
25 August 2003
2

What a terrible movie!! I give it a two, because Johnny Depp is incredible
and makes it ALMOST worth it (not quite, really), but there's only that
much
good he can do to a movie with a botched plotline, and ferociously
dim-witted, unfunny dialogs. It hardly made me laugh: one can't squeeze
all
that much fun out of uninspired actors left on their own, discarded plot
elements, random fights, and a slippery glass eye. It seemed it would go
on
forever: I enjoyed about 5 minutes of it, and hated the rest. A hopeless
waste!

******
11 July 2003
2

Ho-hum.  What the heck is everyone seeing in this film?  It's really long
and drawn-out, edited in the usual
thousand-shots-for-every-three-seconds-of-film
Bruckheimer manner, and the script is mediocre at best.  The audience I
saw
it with were psyched when it started, and then what followed was almost
two-and-a-half hours of indifferent silence.  If this is "the movie we've
been waiting for," this summer is finished....  Johnny Depp's performance
is
jaw-dropping, all right.  Jaw-droppingly awful.  Skip it!

******
24 October 2003
2

This is the most over rated film since Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon. The
Film is beautifully shot and is nice to look at for the first ten mintues or
so but then it gets so boring and your mind begins to wander. I am just glad
I didn't pay money to see this big-budget piece of garbage. It is unfunny
and unexciting.Skip it.

******
4 September 2003
8

Johnny Depp is superb.  He makes the movie, hands down, and I couldn't
imagine it being anywhere near as good without his magnetic, amusing
performance.The film/locations look stunning, and the story is good.  In fact, there's
very little wrong with this fun adventure - the effects are superb
(especially fighting in & out of the moonlight) - but I don't think it quite
lives up to the hype (everyone I know said it was fantastic, but I see a lot
more films than they do).First off, the pacing drags here and there (not really during scenes, but
between the set-pieces).  The swordfights (and other fighting bits) are
inventive, but let down by lacklustre angles and editing.And in the script, they've tried (a bit too hard) to make comedy duos out of
two of the royal officers, and two of the pirates, with scenes that would
fit right into a Disney cartoon but only serve to hold up the story in this
live action film.  And while Geoffrey Rush is always great to watch, he just
isn't evil enough.In fact, I think that's the real fault of the film - it's written as if it
were a cartoon.  For a comparison, it's not as good as The
Goonies.But go see it.  Johnny Depp = most entertaining performance so far this
year.

******
28 February 2005
5
I saw this movie in the cinema without hearing any reviews at all from
any newspapers and without reading the reviews from this website. I
came out of the movie thinking it was OK, although would have been much
better without all that ghost garbage. It's one of those movies I just
forgot about from the minute it finished, it left no impact on me at
all.A couple of months later I was looking through the IMDb Top250 list and
I was absolutely shocked to see this movie was in it, absolutely
shocked. I clicked on it to see if it was the same movie I saw because
I simply couldn't believe what I was reading. This? In the top 250?
What's my point? Well my point is that I thought the movie was ordinary
at best. Maybe it's just me? As soon as the ghosts came into play I was
instantly turned off by this unrealistic pointless add-on, so maybe
this is what sent me to sleep. If it was the ghosts or not, it doesn't
matter, I didn't like it.The script and directing were good, so was Johnny Depp's acting. But
Depps character gave me a pounding headache and the movies plot, in my
mind, was absolutely terrible. Give me a realistic pirate movie,
please, what a waste of talent on stupid ghosts.

******
13 August 2003
2

I can't understand why so many people are raving about this film. To me it
was just one long yawn. It conformed to a current style of film-making which
sadly involves substituting boring stunts and ho-hum special effects (all of
which have been seen countless times before)instead of a decent storyline
and real atmosphere.
This sort of treatment was fine during the 1980's when Indiana Jones and the
like seemed fresh and fun but surely young cinemagoers are entitled to
something more intelligent in 2003 - such as a plot that makes sense,
straight acting and some semblance of historical accuracy.
And another thing.. where on earth did Johnny Depp get that accent from? He
sounded and looked like an inebriated Keith Richards of the Rolling
Stones!

******
11 August 2003
2

I was so bored with the fighting at the end, it ruined the whole movie.
And
why does Johnny Depp sound like he's drunk, but hardly ever drinks? The
special effects were nothing compared to other movies this summer.  I
think
I'll go see "Seabiscuit" again, so I can forget about this
stinker.

******
14 December 2004
9
The poster doesn't do justice to this movie. It has single-handedly
brought the genre back from the dead. Yes, the plot requires actual
concentration on the details, but that's part of the fun. The pacing is
fast when it needs to be; the camera can linger, too. Depp is a
wonderful pirate: cocky, self-assured, disarming, dangerous,
single-minded. He flouts the rules and rulers with the aplomb one
expects of an outlaw. He brings a particular zest to the role that he
skews in interesting directions. Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann
(see Maureen O'Hara in The Black Swan) is one of the few fully-realized
female characters in a genre film. Her bravery and longing for
adventure are clearly shown as traits held even as a child. So it's no
surprise to see her reject the proper suitor and insist on meeting the
pirates personally. Orlando Bloom is pretty, but pale except in one
smashing fight scene. Fun, fun movie with great outtakes on the DVD. Go
see it; then rent Captain Blood, Against All Flags and the Black Swan.

******
22 July 2003
4

Maybe I'm just getting too old for these childish popcorn munchers, but I
found this movie to be tedious and contrived. It was SO predictable, in
fact, that I was quoting lines before they even happened.Do movie audiences still NEED to see a man leaping from a second story
balcony to avoid an explosion? This movie was so packed with stereotypes
and
shallow eye-rolling dialogue that there is little to no room for any
creative originality.If it were not for the always delightful Johnny Depp, there would be
little
need for this movie at all. Splice together ten of your favorite
Hollywood
Frontal Lobotomies in to one big safe happy crapfest, and you'll achieve
the
same result.In short, the movie was entertaining, but not deserving of any special
attention.


******
2 March 2016
8
I wanted to go back and watch the series as a whole, and comparatively
speaking 'The Curse of the Black Pearl' is by far the best in the
series. When compared to the other films in the series, this one shines
brightest. The plot is quite simplistic when compared to the other
'Pirates' films, but it doesn't get muddled in its own story. It's a
love story at its heart, between a privileged daughter of a Governor of
one of the many Caribbean islands (Keira Knightley), and an orphaned
apprentice of the local Blacksmith (Orlando Bloom). There is a sense of
history between them goes back to childhood, and is a very strong bond
between both, which becomes the main driving force behind the events in
Part 1. The pirates have a real sense of danger about them, and are
just as dangerous and evil looking when they are in or out of their
ghoulish form. and I think most will be surprised at the level of
violence (off screen that is) which this movie contains. The first entry into the series introduces us to the most pivotal
character in the series; Captain Jack Sparrow, and is by far one of
Johnny Depp's best creations. A perfect blend of heroism, ineptitude,
and just a hint of madness. He brought such a unique character to life,
and it is very easy to believe that you need to be somewhat crazy to be
a successful pirate. From the very introduction to the character to his
last scene in the series, you know that there is something off about
him. Every single interaction, every little quip has a real sense of
improvisation, about it, as though everything that happens around him
is more of a nuisance to deal with, rather than a consequence of his
own actions. The remaining characters are very much real in this single
minded drives. Elizabeth swan as the damsel in distress, William turner
as a driven hero willing to stop at nothing to get to the women he
loves, and of course Captain Barbossa (Geoffery Rush) who is evil to
his core and willing to stop at nothing to relieve the curse upon him
and his crew (but mostly for himself). Although shorter than the other movies in the series, this one is by
far the best, without stretching the story too thin or becoming to
convoluted in plot devices. It is in many ways a cleaner and simpler
story. A great film from beginning to end with just the right blend of
love, adventure and mysticism. 8/10

******
8 February 2016
10
Johnny Depp has been a favorite of mine for awhile and He is an Amazing
actor. All the Pirate of the Caribbean movies are amazing. Johnny Depp
plays his part very very well in all these movies. There will be new
Pirates of The Caribbean movie coming soon. I know Johnny Depp will do
an Amazing Acting Job in it. In the Next movie of pirates of the
Caribbean will be the most awesome one. It's Like Harry Potter each
pirates of the Caribbean you watch they get better and better. So the
next Pirates of The Caribbean Movie will be awesome. Johnny Depp is a
very Powerful Actor in every movie i seen with him. He will always be
one of my favorite Actors of all time.

******
25 November 2015
10
Disney pulled the rug from under everyone when it produced a rated PG-
13 movie about some of the most terrifying men to ever walk the earth.
The end result was the birth of an iconic character in Captain Jack
Sparrow, whose fantastic lines and perfect delivery made him a global
phenomenon. Fantastic supporting performances by Keira Knightly and
Orlando Bloom as well as the truly menacing Geoffrey Rush give this
film an edge no one would have expected. Containing witty dialogue,
masterful camera-work and visual effects, one of Hans Zimmer's finest
scores (including the riveting theme "He's a Pirate"), and a story
extremely quick-paced and exciting, all capped off by Depp's career-
defining performance, this film at times gives a stronger adrenaline
rush than the ride it's based on.

******
12 November 2015
10
This is the great movie, i have ever seen. animation, sound and editing
was great . in till date i already watch this movie more then 100 time.
all the character of this movie is but Jack sparrow (Johnny Depp)
character is awesome and i like most. i have watch all the 4 part of
this movie. out of this 4 part i like most (Pirates of the Caribbean:
The Curse of the Black Pearl ). i am waiting for the upcoming past. and
one of highest Hollywood grossed movie till date. i am rating this
movie 10 out of 10. This is the great movie, i have ever seen.
animation, sound and editing was great . in till date i already watch
this movie more then 100 time. all the character of this movie is but
Jack sparrow (Johnny Depp) character is awesome and i like most. i have
watch all the 4 part of this movie. out of this 4 part i like most
(Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl ). i am waiting
for the upcoming past. and one of highest Hollywood grossed movie till
date. i am rating this movie 10 out of 10.

******
17 October 2015
10
No amount of words will be enough to describe how fantastic this
masterpiece from Disney was. Johnny Depp became my favorite actor 5
seconds after watching this movie. Though I do despise of Will Turner
and his stupid girlfriend, those to were always an obstacle for Jack. I
love the bond between Jack and Barbosa, their frienemies. I say I
despise Will and Elizabeth because #1: Will betrayed Jack and reported
to Cutler Beckette using dead bodies (cruel!). #2: Elizabeth chained
Jack while faking a romantic moment and forced Jack to call her a
pirate, a title way too cool to be wasted on a pathetic girl such as
Elizabeth. There are so many more reasons but those are my main two and
if anyone has a different opinion I totally respect that. I actually
admire Will for going through so much to save Elizabeth.

******
13 October 2015
10
I was ten years old when i saw it the first time, but since then well i
think i watch again about 30 times. This movie the first of my list. I
know it's not the best movie in the world for the critics but for me is
is one of the best movies. I love Johnny Depp every time when i see
him. Hi's a great actor the Pirates of Caribbean makes him to really
famous. Keira was really young in the first episode, and she grew up
for the trilogy. The pictures and the view all of them are amazing, the
design it's so realistic. I would like to see the Black Pearl in real
life, and the Caribbean sea because i think it's amazing how it's looks
like in the movie.

******
13 October 2015
9
It is very exciting movie. I like Disneyland and I also like an
attraction of Pirates of the Caribbean but I had never seen this movie.
After watching this, I regret that I didn't watch such a fantastic
movie. Captain Jack Sparrow is very cool. I was surprised that the
performance of Johnny Depp. I love Charlie who is a character of
Charlie and Chocolate Factory and also acted by Johnny Depp. Both
characters are acted by him and Charlie and Jack are quite different
character, so I think it is difficult to understand that these
character are acted by same actor. Captain Jack Sparrow is very unique
and attractive character. These are many action scenes so full of
exciting and the BGM is also wonderful. Music, actor, plot are all
fantastic. I want to watch the sequel.

******
12 October 2015
7
Governor Weatherby Swann (Jonathan Pryce), his daughter Elizabeth and
Lieutenant James Norrington (Jack Davenport) rescue boy Will Turner
from a burning wreck on their way to Port Royal. Elizabeth hides Will's
gold pirate medallion. Eight years later, Governor Swann is trying to
set up Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) with the fast rising Norrington but
she is still taken with Will (Orlando Bloom), now a swordsmith. Captain
Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) rescues Elizabeth from the water but he is
set to hang for being a pirate. He escapes but Will helps catch him.
Meanwhile the gold pirate medallion has called in Captain Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush) on the haunted Black Pearl to attack the port. Barbossa
kidnaps Elizabeth with the medallion. Will frees Sparrow to pursue her.The movie is bombastic, chaotic and messy. It's great to have Knightley
and Bloom but it is Johnny Depp who steals the film. It is such a crazy
performance that it is bigger than everything else. Without it, this
movie would be a messy muddled thing. With it, this is a wonderful
brilliant exuberant fun mess. In a film overstuffed with CGI, big sets
and wild characters, Depp has a neon sign flashing over him in one of
the most original performance ever in movie history.

******
11 October 2015
10
In my opinion, this film is one of the most gripping films i've ever
seen. And it isn't only the own film, it's all the saga. It has a great
actors like Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley. Jack
Sparrow is an eccentric character, as Johnny Depp usually is. The film
has moments of all type. There are so great moments of adventure,
laughs and, more like a secondary story, so many moments of love
between Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann. I think Will Turner is so
brave, because he has a infighting between being a pirate or not, and
it wants to save her although he isn't noble. She is so brave too,
because she risks her life and lies to protect him.

******
5 October 2015
8
This is such a gem of a movie. It came out of nowhere and with little
expectations, reigniting film fans' love of pirate adventures. The fact
that it had no expectation contrasts with its sequels, which is why it
was probably so successful. You've got the classic pirate villain
(played brilliantly by Geoffrey Rush  my favourite character of the
films), great CGI, and some incredibly witty scenes. Let's not forget
Jonny Depp's outstanding, unforgettable and charismatic portrayal of
Captain Jack Sparrow. It seems he was supposed to be an appealing
supporting character, and yet shoved the cliché love plot out of the
way and made the film his own. Very little can be said of this film in
a negative light. It was clever, witty and sharp. One of the true
achievements, however, was that it wasn't too witty and sharp  it knew
its boundaries, unlike the sequels. The seriousness of the situations
these characters were put in felt real. Therefore, we cared about what
happened to them. Despite my eagerness for the upcoming film, I can't
see it topping The Curse of the Black Pearl. In fact, I can't see any
pirate film surpassing one of the landmark movies of the past decade,
aside from Master and Commander. Great Stuff.

******
7 September 2015
9
Many look back in time and see pirates as tavern burning pillagers.
Where others see sea shanties and wonder.The Black Pearl, a ship not all are familiar with. The Queen ans
Revenge or the Dauntless are particular vessels which struck fear into
the hearts of sailors worldwide.This film captures the best of both worlds, each line delivered is
another towards capturing your inner pirate and set sail across
Babinski's world of jolly bloody pirates!On the side I will say the casting could have had some more
consideration. I feel each member of this cast are great actors. But
some do not suit their roles. I may not be the only one but, I feel
casting directors care less about the authenticity of their choices.Do not cast a part if all you are buying is the fans who will follow
regardless.

******
5 September 2015
9
In beginning my review on Pirates of the Caribbean I sat back to watch
all of the films back to back in order. I'm a huge fan of Johnny Depp
and Keira Knightley, and of course I really like the Pirates films.Now in the beginning cinematically it seemed a bit as if the scene was
on a stage in a green screen and it showed pretty badly, yet this is
one of the very few graphical/cgi issues that really stuck out to me.
Acting within The Curse of the Black Pearl for the most part was great,
and of course the cast seemed to grow into their characters more and
more as this film started to take shape. I do love how the story starts
and unfolds as I do believe at this point this is one of my favorites
within the film collection, of course until I get to check out the
newest in development film.The Curse of the Black Pearl is a wonderful movie, it's great for
family, it's filled with action, comedy, and a beautiful tale to
follow. I love how the characters stories individually began to unfold
nicely timed throughout the film revealing the love term development of
the Pirates films. The Curse exposed was my favorite part of the movie
the graphics were awesome.

******
2 September 2015
9
And that Depp fellow. My God. I never had any idea who he was, but his
name sounded like something created for a pubescent cover-boy for
magazines published to hook thirteen year-old girls on make-up and bad
music. Wasn't Depp the name of some hair-goo product back in the 60s?I am a straight male. I have several good friends who are gay, but have
never fantasized about any gender but the female. But now I understand
how women can experience swooning crushes on male film stars. He is
simply extraordinary. So sly, so seductive, so canny! I read an
interview in which Depp said he went through a slight depression when
he had to stop playing Captain Jack Sparrow. I can see why. His
inventiveness and sheer pleasure in inhabiting the character come
through in every frame. How can I admit to my children that I now troll
through fan websites about a former teen heart-throb?I often don't even watch the Academy Awards, and I certainly never have
any emotional investment in who wins.Except for this year.Go Jack.And, in a time when many big-budget movies are little more than a
hodge- podge of loosely- connected "money shots" this movie puts all
the pieces together, with a sense of fun and light-beardedness in
special effects that are simply dazzling. I find myself laughing with
dizzy appreciation when Barbossa barks out, "You'd best be believing in
ghost stories, Miss Turner, you're in one!" and the grinning skeletons
come into view, with Badelt's pounding score keeping time to the beat
of their maniacal deck- swabbing. And then there's the scene of the
pirate-ghouls slithering up from the darkened sea on the mooring cables
of the Dauntless, like infernal cats stalking their prey.And now to the music. I can just hear the effete aesthetes dismissing
this score, as Mr. Zimmerman anticipates with his winking "overproduced
by" credit on the cover-liner. "Bombastic." "Overdone." "Absurdly
Stupendous."

******
20 June 2015
9
This movie will always hold a special place in my heart. Way back in
2003, while on an island (San Juan Island, WA to be exact,) my then-
boyfriend and I checked out the only movie theatre on the isle.
Personally, I didn't want to see Pirates of the Caribbean, but it was
either that or Legally Blonde 2: Red, White and Blonde since the movie
theatre only had two screens. And while I saw part one of that, I was
even less interested in seeing that. So, with only two screens, two
choices, we opted for Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl.Now, this movie had been out for awhile, and everyone raved about it.
Still, even with the draw of both Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom, as
well as the vast positive feedback, I was hesitant going in. BOYwas I
wrong. This movie grabbed me from minute one and never let loose. From the incredible score to the excellent special effects  that STILL
hold up today in 2015 to the fantastic characters, this proved to be an
instant classic. (To clarify, 12 years later, that statement holds
true.) It was extreme adventure, with plenty of action, humor and
perfect blend of gray areas for the good/bad guys. Now, the follow-ups, including the 2 that completed the "trilogy" and
the stand alone featureI implore you: DON'T WATCH THEM. I've currently
seen this original 3-4x, but the subsequent ones, one time apiece and
pretty much despised them. They were FAR TOO LONG and clunky. Granted,
Captain Jack Sparrow is a once in a lifetime character, but he should
only be enjoyed in small doses, such as this original chapter. The lines were hilarious, the cast/characters great on their own and
the action was exciting. The Disneyland ride happens to be my favorite
exhibit at Disneyland (even before the movie,) and they took that, plus
the awesome Yo-Ho! song to lengths that couldn't be achieved in lesser
hands. Again, avoid the sequels and buy this fantastic adventure. It seriously
can be stand-alone, and should've. * * *Final thoughts: Of all of our memories together, Justin, this always
stands out. Despite not being one of the biggest events in our time
together, the time we went to this small, 2-screen, island duplex, will
forever be etched into my memory. Thank you for opening my mind to this
film and experience.

******
2 June 2015
10
I loved this movie. I saw it at the cinema with my best friend some
years ago. I remember that I was skeptical and I didn't want to go.I usually don't like pirates and adventure stories. But I have to admit
that I was very much involved. It was very exciting from the beginning!
It's an adventure /fantasy film. What i'm saying is I couldn't get
enough of this movie. It was so well done. Johnny Depp was hilarious a
Jack Sparrow, and acted like a true Pirate. His obsessive drinking
antics, and his walk really brought out this character. Plus he made
character we could all love and enjoy, that deserves an Oscar in my
view. Geoffrey Rush played Barbarossa the bad guy. Who turned out to be
quite a good bad guy in my view. He showed real potential, and I loved
the way how he manipulated people. A great adventure. Well played
sword-fighting. Great laughs. Great music. And great story. Pirates are
back in my good book. Absolutely recommend!

******
15 May 2015
10
For all Johnny Depp lovers this film is undoubtedly for you. For all
good movie lovers this film is for you too! Truly this film has
something for everyone and is a classic. Keira Knightley plays the
feisty & independent Elizabeth Swann, who should become a Disney
Princess. Orlando Bloom serves as the teenage girl eye candy, but
admittedly he is an OK character although Jack Sparrow (ahem, CAPTAIN
Jack Sparrow) steals the show with his hilarious remarks. The film has
a great cast and plenty of nods to the original ride from the Disney
Parks. A favorite of mine is definitely Jack the Monkey, Barbossa's
immortal pet monkey who was named 'Jack' to spite the human.
Personally, my favorite scene is when Jack Sparrow gets marooned with
Lizzie."They'll be no living with her after this."In total, this film does not disappoint and is a fabulous tribute to
Walt's vision. The cast makes it shine, the sets make it glow, and the
breathtaking ambiance of it all makes it ideal for any movie night.

******
23 March 2015
9
When I first heard Disney was going to make a movie out of their
Pirates of the Caribbean ride, I (like many others, no doubt) thought
it was a horrible idea. I mean, how many movies based on video games
worked, let alone movies based on an amusement park attraction. What
was next? "Hall of Presidents: The Motion Picture"?But to their credit, Disney not only turned out a good movie, but
spawned a billion dollar franchise. Thanks to Johnny Depp's great (and
Oscar nominated, no less) performance as Captain Jack Sparrow, great
direction by Gore Verbinski, and a storyline that is both
action-packed, yet whimsical and fun, Disney made an epic adventure
that appealed to all ages.Now Disney is finally releasing the first two films on Blu-ray disc,
and they're a true delight for any owners of the high def format. The
picture is stunningly sharp and colorful, and I could find nothing to
complain about. Every scene...indeed, every frame...was gloriously
sharp and beautiful in this 1080p transfer. The audio is equally
remarkable, with both a 5.1 uncompressed track and a 5.1 Dolby Digital
track sounding fantastic. Watching Pirates on Blu-ray reminded me of
why I spent money on the format in the first place...nothing I've seen
(including seeing the film in the theater itself) matches the
experience of watching the film in this format...it's simply
incredible.Disney hasn't slouched on the rest of the package either, making this a
2-disc set, with the second disc containing nearly every single extra
that was on the 3-Disc standard release (including all the bonuses from
"The Lost Disc" in that set). All those features and bonuses are still
shown in 480p, but Disney has included a brand-new interactive
documentary on the movie disc, presenting it in 1080p as well. This new
documentary, entitled "Scoundrels of the Seas" can be watched in its
entirety or can be edited by the viewer so he or she can watch a
custom-designed version. By selecting an option in the main menu,
viewers can watch the film and then click on "coins" that pop up during
the movie, indicating topics available in the documentary. If you want
to find out more about that topic, click on your remote when the coin
appears. If you don't want to know more, don't click. When the film is
over, you'll get to see the documentary with only the topics you
clicked on covered. Of course, viewers also have the option of watching
the movie without the distraction of the coins, as well as designing
their own custom documentary from one of the menus, or just watching
the complete documentary straight through. The documentary and custom
design makes use of Blu-ray's Java capabilities, so users with
stand-alone players and/or PS3's will want to make sure their systems
are properly updated. Also on the movie disc is an interactive "Jolly Roger" character that
will help guide you through the disc; three separate audio commentary
tracks (the same three that appear on the 3-disc standard version); and
a handful of 1080p trailers for your enjoyment. Disc Two contains most of the 480p bonus features that were previously
released on the 3-disc set, including just extras as a Making-Of
documentary; a blooper reel; deleted and alternate scenes; an image
gallery; and a few "Easter Eggs" for all you pirates out there to hunt
down!Just in time for the theatrical release of the third movie in the
trilogy, The Curse of the Black Pearl is a reference-quality Blu-ray
release that fans of the movie are just going to love. It's a must-
have for Blu-ray owners, no doubt.

******
18 March 2015
9
This film in itself was something else being the first of it's series
it did in fact live up to it's potential.Johnny Depp is phenomenal in
his part as Captain Jack which was expected. Also Orlando Bloom in my
opinion made this movie in his own weird but awesome way. The action is
awesome and the suspense is intense. The series couldn't have started
out better. I gave this 10 stars because if u ask anyone if they have
seen the pirates of the Caribbean they would say of course, not to
mention everyone for the most part thinks this series is one to put in
the books. My review is simply a thumbs up and if u haven't seen this
series yet i strongly recommend you do because these movies are fun for
the whole family. I say 10/10. Great movie

******
6 March 2015
9
this movie is really well done. I loved Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom.
They played off of each other really well.They seemed to have a great
on screen/off- screen relationship.The script was good and the animations of the Black Pearl's curse was
just amazing. The end scene after the credits with the monkey was
AMAZING!I wish that we never had to say good bye to Elizabeth and William in
the third movie. The movie was great and i highly recommend it to
anyone who is a fan of pirates and Johnny Depp. He was BRILLIANT in the
movie. Johnny is known for being crazy and having a dark sense of humor
and Captain Jack Sparrow is just up his ally. Captain Jack Sparrow is
crazy, funny, and he likes his drinks. He's hilarious and a great hero.

******
13 December 2014
6
The very first "Pirates of the Caribbean" movie was a huge success at
the box office and at awards ceremonies. It was no°3 at the box office
behind the final "Lord of the Rings" chapter and "Finding Nemo". Also
it received 5 Academy Award nominations, including Best Actor for Depp
(his first nomination ever) and also an SAG Award for him. That is also
why there have been 3 sequels already, no°4 is safe and number looks
likely too. The first one (just like 2 and 3) was directed by Gore
Verbinski, who kept reuniting with Depp after his exit from the
Pirates-franchise. The writing team already worked together on
animation classics like "Shrek" and "Aladdin". My favorite part from
the script was possibly the "saving the one shot"-storyline and the
final shot was one of the highlights of the movie. I was a bit
surprised the crew went according to protocol at some point as they
seemed extremely loyal to Sparrow initially, but I guess it shows that
you can never trust pirates. Thank God Captain Sparrow survived all
these dangerous situations early on like the hail of bullets after he
saved and threatened Elizabeth Swann or when he almost gets hung near
the end of the film. Actually that could have been a nice ending if
they hadn't done all these sequels. A bit unexpected, but somehow
different.I also thought Geoffrey Rush did a good job with his character (but
that's a given as it's Geoffrey Rush), the main antagonist to Sparrow.
His death scene near the end was pretty special. I guess they did not
plan to include him in the sequels, but they were wrong. Let's see how
they bring him back. Another antagonist, the commodore, I was really
fond of. I almost cheered for him more than for Bloom's character (just
like Sparrow). It was actually nice for a change to see the rival to be
displayed in not such a bad light. I found him likable and you could
even call him a hero. Knightley did a solid job too and I liked Depp as
well. I'm not his biggest fan, but here he convinced me and made me
laugh too. He is a very costume-oriented actor if you look at his body
of work and Jack Sparrow may very well be his most memorable role.
Orlando Bloom unfortunately still does nothing for me. He is all about
his looks and little about being a talented actor in my opinion. This
franchise started right after "The Lord of the Rings", so they cast him
as a crowd magnet I guess. The film is mostly a family movie. Here and
there, there is a bit of violence, like ghost pirates cutting throats
of Navy officers, but it's all not too graphic or very fast over.Another strength about the film is the music. I am a bit surprised
Zimmer was completely snubbed by everybody that awards season as his
soundtrack is certainly one of the most memorable from 2003 and pretty
much everybody has heard the main theme.

******
28 November 2014
9
"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is a grand
action film loaded with memorable characters, swashbuckling and great
special effects. It's sure to please audiences and leave them roaring
for more pirate adventures (which have been provided in the form of 3
sequels as of 2012). Despite a few shortcomings (the curse itself for
example, is not well explained) it's just a lot of fun to sit through
and it's good for the whole family (assuming the children won't be too
frightened by the cursed pirates and can handle the action and
violence). It's got everything you could want in a story: romance,
action, humour, friendship, chases, even a bit of horror thrown in too.
(On Blu-ray, August 11, 2012)

******
17 October 2014
9
Disney has made quite a number of great films and the entire Pirates of
the Caribbean is no exception. PotC: Curse of the Black Pearl is lots
of fun. It has plenty of action for eye-candy and lots of comedy to
keep everyone laughing. It's an adventurous tale, with a great fantasy
story to follow. The entire cast seemed to really outdo themselves for
this film... they appeared to give it their all for this outstanding
movie, each one played their roles believably. This is a movie the
entire family can enjoy.This movie would be a great double feature with movies like "The Mask
of Zorro", "Hook" or even followed by the second film of the PotC
series "Dead Man's Chest"9.5/10

******
28 July 2014
9
This was the movie that introduced the world to the character of
Captain Jack Sparrow, arguably the most popular of Depp's incarnations.
Though Jack is an important character, the movie mainly seems to
revolve around Keira Knigthely's Elizabeth, and her love for the
blacksmith Will Turner, portrayed by Orlando Bloom.Elizabeth is kidnapped by Barbossa, the captain of The Black Pearl, and
his crew whom once Sparrow had captained, before being left for dead as
the outcome of a mutiny led by Barbossa himself. When the governor,
Elizabeth's father, and her prospective husband, the commodore, give up
Elizabeth as a lost cause, Will teams up with Jack to save his love.And what follows is one of the best action/comedy movies ever brought
out by Hollywood; topped with the devil may care character, done to
perfection by Johnny Depp.The other best thing about the movie, after Jack, is the superb
background score, which when added to the clinking of swords, seems to
transport you into the middle of a battlefield. Now for the one star I
deducted, mainly due to two causes. Though Orlando Bloom, does his role
nicely, I would have preferred someone else as Will Turner. And
secondly, the question of Jack's age. Going a little mathematically and
comparing his age to that of Will, he would seem to be in his fifties,
sixties or beyond.But you needn't worry yourself about it, and seriously go watch the
movie, for its one of the best things that will ever happen to you.

******
17 July 2014
10
The Pirates of the Caribbean one of the best movies dealing with
stories of pirates, where he was wonderful on multiple aspects, namely:
Scenario: The scenario of movie nicely well as the complete text of
movie and draws the viewer and has a high level of exciting and
wonderful, especially the text on the character of Jack Sparrow and
comedy associated with this stirring personal Directed by movie: I
think the movie directed was not easy, and made ​​us live inside with
the characters, I do not think there are enough words to talk about the
extent of the work of genius Gore Verbinski. The finest scenes of
movie, the scene of fighting between Captain Jack and Captain Barbossa
Sbaaro in the last chapter of movie, and perhaps what makes this movie
also extravaganza of music soundtrack of the film and the performance
of actor Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow character to where he played a
major role in making this character alive

******
30 June 2014
9
This film is one of those that changed the landscape for film and
because of its success the pirate genre is nothing but The Pirates of
the Caribbean franchise. The story sees the undead crew of the Black
pearl attempt to lift their curse by kidnapping the governors daughter
Elizabeth Swann and her possessions. So old friend Will Turner and the
eccentric Captain Jack Sparrow attempt to rescue her for their own
needs. For starters Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow has become a legendary
partnership and the performance is phenomenal and unfortunately for
Depp it is so good and legendary it has consumed his acting career, but
in this film he is amazing. The supporting class is great as well Keira
Knightly as Elizabeth was a good choice as she is passive because of
her status and also heroic and aggressive when she needs to be, Orlando
Bloom as Will Turner was another great choice as he is a great foil for
Sparrow and is possibly the character to connect with most. Whereas
Geoffrey Rush as Captain Barbosa is a fantastic Villain and is truly
evil and a great fit and foil for Sparrow. Now the one weakness
possibly in this film is that the story is quite basic and predictable
as it goes but this isn't a huge detriment to the film but stops it
from being a 10. The script is phenomenal especially with Jack sparrow
but everybody truly gets a moment to shine. The style is also really
good with the epic pirates theme song, the stylised awesome fights and
the undead visuals. However, the style of some of the comedy is off a
little bit but not enough to take down the overall quality of the film
as this is a truly fantastic film that will be tough to better for
pirate films.

******
21 May 2014
10
There are records of pirates that date back to very early times and
there are still accounts of it today. When film began to become
prevalent with audiences, there were also several films made that
revolved around these individuals. The life of a pirate is one of that
many seek to obtain even though most would deny it. Who wouldn't want
to sail around the world's oceans plundering with your friends and
having a good time provided no rules? It sounds like a lot of fun.
Surprisingly, as dark as this particular career can get for some
people, Disney is able to portray the fictitious world of pirates where
it may not be all fun and games, but it still looks like a blast
(pardon the pun). There isn't any element that feels out of place.After a blacksmith named Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) sees his love
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) captured by a band of pirates, he
calls upon the help of a unique ally, Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp),
another pirate. The writers behind the screen are Ted Elliot and Terry
Rossio. These guys are 2 of the 4 writers behind Aladdin (1992) and The
Mask of Zorro (1998) - which has multiple swashbuckling scenes like
this one. Each character has an equal amount of development and
charisma to make them likable. Johnny Depp of course is the most
memorable even though his name is not in the title. The film is
directed by Gore Verbinksi who didn't know it at the time but would
work with Johnny Depp much more after this movie.Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley have good chemistry and look good
together as well. The captain in charge of the pirates is Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush) and he too puts in a good performance as the antagonist
to the story. What may be surprising to viewers is just how well the
writers were able to mix the violence with comical moments. This is
either due to Johnny Depp's acting and rather strange facial
expressions or even lesser important characters like Barbossa's men -
Ragetti and Pintel. They are definitely not appealing characters but
they still portray the charm needed to enjoy what they do or say even
if they aren't on the good side. Again, going back to violence, the
humor makes it more fun. The style of action portrayed here does involve swords, which feels
similar to the Zorro series but is also different because of the
settings it takes place in. How many high seas adventures are popular
today? Not many. Besides swords, there's also cannon fire and
shoot-outs for good measure. Adding on top of that is composer Klaus
Badelt's score. Thankfully, Badelt includes themes for Jack Sparrow and
the whole story itself. It's very catchy and once you've heard it, you
won't forget it. I'm surprised too because although Badelt hasn't made
a lot of great film scores, the one's he is remembered for is extremely
good. Lastly is Dariusz Wolski's cinematography, which he gets a number
of nice big views of tropical scenery although I'm sure a lot of it is
CGI. There really isn't anything to not like about it.The characters are likable, the action and humor mix well and the music
is quite memorable. If you want to see an updated look on old fashion
pirates, this is the original movie to see.

******
22 April 2014
10
Just love this movie !!! One of my favorite movie ever. It was so long
since I didn't saw a real good Adventure movie and it was a great
discovery !!! This movie is just PERFECT in every way. Perfect story :
Pirates, haunted ship, lot of comic moments Perfect music : beautiful
music by Hanz Zimman Perfect actors : Johnny Depp is just amazing
playing Jack Sparrow, it's probably the most important part of his
career. And even if it's for a "family movie" it's a great one. He
gives something very unique and fresh. It would have been so boring to
have a "standard" hero like in every other pirates or adventure movies.
This time it's almost an "anti- hero" but that we love even for its bad
sides which is so fun. Perfect cinematography : Caribbean must be one
of the most beautiful place on Earth where I dream to go one day. And
the fact that the movie has really been shot in these amazing places
give something more to it than if it was done in studios. Same thing
for the ships and decors that we can "feel real". Well it's a great
movie to watch and re-watch. A huge fresh moment, pirates, sun, sea and
rum !!

******
21 February 2014
10
Films often draw inspiration from literature, historical events and pre
existing works, and screenwriters and directors adapt books the theatre
and older movies into modern films. Movies have followed this pattern
for a long time and will continue to do so in the foreseeable future.
This being said, however, creativity and demand for original content
often causes deviations in patterns, and inspiration will often be
drawn from unlikely sources, once classic resources have become dry.
Disney has always been creative in developing imaginary worlds and
fictional story lines, in many cases adapting them into rides at their
massive theme parks. Creating outstanding story lines requires
innovative thinking, and in the case of pirates of the Caribbean,
Disney did just that. They reversed their typical cycle of adapting
rides after movies and instead drew inspiration for a movie from a
ride, thus creating Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl. The theme park ride had been around for some time, and predated
the movie by almost 36 years. The content that the ride offered could
be easily adapted into a film given that it depicted a historical time
period rather than a modern event. Disney easily and adeptly
transformed the idea of swashbuckling pirates from a ride into a movie.Simply put, Captain Jack Sparrow takes the movie and straps a jet pack
to it, launching it into the ozone. Captain Jack Sparrow's character
brings the storyline alive and makes for a truly engaging film. In my
opinion, Johnny Depp's portrayal of Sparrow is one of the best
performances in any movie and is one of my personal favorites. His
eccentricity and peculiar mannerisms as Sparrow make the character
incredibly interesting and dynamic. Despite seeming drunk at many times
Jack is, in reality, very intelligent. Jack uses his wit to be very
humorous and often borders inappropriateness. The fact that Disney
produced this film is about as shocking to me as it is to hear that the
writers originally thought Depp's performance was terrible when it
ended up making the movie. Robert Ebert, a renowned film critic had
this to say about Depp's performance, "It can be said that his
performance is original in its every atom. There has never been a
pirate, or for that matter a human being, like this in any other movie"
(Ebert 1). Ebert follows this statement with assurance that he is not
criticizing Depp's performance but rather praising it for its
originality and ingenuity. The film is actually graphic in many scenes
and has very subtle yet noticeable sexual connotations and adult humor
in many instances. This being said it is still able to appeal to
younger audiences but might come off as scary to some younger kids. On
top of Depp's outstanding the performance the film does a tremendous
job balancing out how much of Jack the viewer gets by including Turner,
a much more level headed and traditional character. It is also
interesting how the characters all seem to be chasing something. Jack
is chasing the Pearl and Barbossa. Barbossa in turn, is chasing Turner,
while Turner is chasing Swann. This creates an interesting dynamic and
constantly keeps the audience on the edge of their seat. The brilliant
settings also help make the film great. Despite being only set in the
Caribbean, each location is very unique and often exaggerated. For
example the island Jack is marooned on is absolutely gorgeous with
perfect blue water and white sand while the Barbossa's hideout is jet
is black and grim. Another fantastic location comes with the film's
depiction of Tortuga. It is shown as a drunken mosh pit of gluttony
where barbaric pirates drink themselves to death and fight one another
yet this is all shown in a very comedic way. The Internet Movie
Database rates the movie an 8.1 out of 10 which compared to many other
great films is actually very high considering the highest rating given
to any movie is a 9.2. Depp's acting, the other supporting characters'
essential roles and the brilliant plot as well as locales make the
movie a fantastic film that will set the standard for pirate films for
a very long time.

******
11 January 2014
9
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl released in 2003
is still in the list of the best. The cast includes Johnny Depp,Keira
Knightley, Orlando bloom ,Geoffery Rush.The first half of the movies mainly features on Captain Jack, will and
Elizabeth. The relationship between Will and Elizabeth comforts the
factor of romance in the movie. Captain Sparrow and Will turner
together procures a crew with different intentions .Jack wants to get
back the black pearl which he was once the captain of. But Barbossa his
first mate send him for mutiny. Later the trio fights barbossa and
kills him. A curse prevails over the crew of the black pearl including
Barbossa.The characters are filled with fun and enthusiasm. Mention not the
intelligence of Mr Sparrow. He is intelligent and equally no word is
found to describe him. Johnny depp at his best. He is twice marooned on
an island where he spends time drinking rum. It is shown that he has an
interest in Elizabeth. But her heart is throughout Will's. The second
half of the movie breathtaking and nail biting. The last fight between
Jack and Barbossa is the best fight scene in the movie. The music is another big factor in the movie. Hans Zimmer is at his
best. Jack's theme and Yo Ho A Pirate's Life for me was sung everywhere
is still sung. The Visual effects of the movie is equally beautiful as
the score. The catchy dialogs at the right moment are remembered.~This is my first review. Please forgive if there are any mistakes.
I'll Try to do my best in the next.

******
14 December 2013
10
Pirates of the Caribbean is a brilliant film, being filled with action,
adventure, scares and comedy. Johnny Depp plays "Captain" Jack Sparrow
as one of his most loved roles. The story line is cool and tells us of
some things that happened before the actual events that take place in
this film. In my opinion there should be a prequel trilogy to teach us
more of what really happened in the Caribbean so many years ago. Anyway
this film is just so fun to watch but you really can't get your hopes
up with the sequels. When the appalling fourth installment was viewed
by myself I really found it stupider than the rest and just lacked in
all details this film perfected. A fifth installment is scheduled for
2016 and will go by the name: Dead Men Tell No Tales. That title was
rumored also to be the title of the fourth film but indeed it wasn't.
With this upcoming sequel, I hope it is much like this and can retain
balance to this film franchise. Thee only bad thing about this film is
that it plagued all further Disney live action films, it sets too good
of an example for other films to beat, The Lone Ranger for instance.
Anyway this is Davorin Lonac wishing you farewell and if you enjoyed
this review please check out my other ones for more fun...

******
18 October 2013
10
Walt Disney's beloved theme park ride comes to life in the hilariously
entertaining comedy-action film, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of
the Black Pearl (2003). Pirates stars Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush,
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley with a supporting cast of Jack
Davenport, Lee Arenberg, Mackenzie Crook, Kevin McNally, and Zoe
Saldana. Set in the picturesque 18th century Spanish Main (part of the
New World empire), Pirates of the Caribbean delivers an exhilarating
adventure that will keep the viewers coming back for more!The film opens with young Will Turner (Bloom) being rescued from a ship
wreck by Captain Norrington's (Davenport) crew as they are sailing from
England to Port Royal. Young Elizabeth Swann (Knightley) is present and
discovers a medallion on the unconscious Will. She steals it, fearing
he is a pirate. Eight years later, Elizabeth, who just happens to be
the governor's daughter, has become quite the beauty and has captured
the attention of both Captain-soon-to-be-Commodore Norrington and the
all-grown-up Will Turner. Elizabeth is secretly in love with Will,
however, she is unable to profess her love due to his lowly status as a
blacksmith. Elizabeth's life is further complicated by the arrival of
the infamous Captain Jack Sparrow who after threatening Miss Swann and
crossing blades with Turner, is thrown in jail. To make matters worse,
a band of pirates lead by Captain Barbossa attack Port Royal and
abducts Elizabeth in search of the medallion she possesses. Desperate
to rescue Elizabeth, Will enlists Jack's help, who only agrees to help
in order to get back his beloved ship, The Black Pearl, stolen by
Barbossa. With this unlikely pair, a damsel in distress, a villainous
crew of pirates who aren't all that they appear to be and plenty of
sword fighting, Pirates leads its viewers on a swashbuckling adventure
with an explosive finale. Gore Verbinski does a fantastic job at directing this film, engaging
the audience from start to finish. With contrasting scenes of light and
dark, choppy angled camera shots and breathtaking panoramas of the
Caribbean islands and sea, Verbinski puts the audience at the center of
the adventure. After all, Pirates is based on a theme park ride, and
the movie is nothing short of exciting. For example, during the epic
ship battle scene, Verbinski alternates low angle, close-up shots of
the ships' bows pitching in the waves with high angle, long shots of
the whole ship and its crews fighting. He also uses a plethora of
close-up cannons going off and guns being fired in succession with
facial expressions to convey the intensity of the situation, providing
an utterly thrilling sequence of scenes that creates a vicarious
experience for the audience. Above all else, however, is the impeccable performance by Johnny Depp.
Borrowing mannerisms from rocker Keith Richards and adding his own
drunken- inspired flair, Depp is convincing as a seasoned pirate with a
vendetta on a no holds barred quest. Depp reaches deep into himself to
bring Captain Jack Sparrow to life, completely immersing himself into
his character and capturing the audience with his bad-boy charm and
devil-may-care attitude mixed with his feminine swaying walk and
"guy-liner." Balancing Sparrow between villain and hero, Depp enchants
the audience into sympathizing with Jack. Much of Depp's brilliance as
Sparrow is conveyed solely through the body language of Jack. Even when
he has no lines, Depp's Sparrow engages the audience through quirky
facial expressions and woozy bodily movements; even when he is an
observing character he keeps the attention on him. Perhaps Depp's most
crowning moment comes when Sparrow is marooned on an island with the
beautiful Elizabeth Swann. Depp manages to play off Jack's unrestrained
interest in Miss Swann without offsetting the audience who has already
invested in Will and Elizabeth's love for one another, and when
Elizabeth burns all of his rum, Depp brilliantly portrays Jack's
baffled rage in what may be the funniest portion of the film. Although
a great movie by itself, Depp elevates the film to epic status. All in all, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a
wonderfully entertaining film that is great for all ages. Classic and
original all in once, Pirates of the Caribbean is not your average
pirate epic, but a fresh and captivating story with traditional
underscores. This film is a must see for anyone who enjoys an action
packed, adventure with lovable and endearing characters and larger than
life special effects.

******
16 September 2013
9
Elizabeth who is a governor general's daughter has a golden medal which
was had by Will. They come to love each other. One night town is
attacked by Barbossa and Elizabeth is caught because his aim is the
golden medal. Will asks Jack for help. They go to Elizabeth's rescue.This movie is so exciting. There are a lot of thrilling scenes in this
film. Everyone will be able to watch it with eager anticipation. My
favorite character is Will because he is so brave and he has strong
feelings for her. I was surprised to watch that Barbossa and his
underlings are living corpses. My favorite scene is jack's fighting
scene because he is so cool and he is good at swordplay. Lastly, I
think all casts' performance is very nice and good . This movie is
really worth seeing.The ending is happy for everyone. This movie is so interesting. This is
one of my favorite movie. I recommend it to you.

******
29 August 2013
10
In 1996, the movie "Independence Day" by Roland Emerich proved that
entertainment films, which usually come out in summer (in other words,
summer movies, the ones that only serve for a good popcorn) could have
a high quality in various aspects from the very story, script and
performances. And Gore Verbinski and the writers of "Shrek" (Ted
Elliott and Terry Rossio) with "Pirates" proved that once again in big!
"Pirates" has everything that a summer movie needs to be pure
entertainment, from the romantic story of the blacksmith Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) to the beautiful daughter of the governor of Port Royal
(Jonathan Pryce), Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley). That begins to go
awry when the weird pirate Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) appears in Port
Royal and soon after him the cursed crew of the "Black Pearl" led by
the cruel Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush).Like I said, from romance to comedy and action, everything that a
popcorn film needs. But thanks to Verbinski, everything can go much
higher and better that we expected. Since the beginning, the film
presents a superb script with a good, flowing and entertaining
narrative (surprising for a entertainment film), that goes from
memorable phrases to intelligent humor, and the plot really takes
something pretty serious without exaggerating as other films have tried
and failed. But it's not just comedy that elevates the film, is the
"tone-change" that the film has: in scenes between Elizabeth and Will
the film seems to have a dramatic tone but never gets to be boring or
dry; when Barbossa and his cursed crew appear everything gets dark and
kind of scary. But thanks to Jack Sparrow, at all times we have a
really good and funny comic relief.The film also contains a superb direction of Verbinski in all scenes,
giving the film also pretty adventurous moments when you see the great
and vast Caribbean, and also epic moments of action that range from fun
choreographed chase-sequences to epic battles between pirate's ships
against another. Ah, speaking of pirates, Verbinski seems to have
grabbed almost all the clichés of pirates and thrown in the movie: one
speaker parrot on a pirate's shoulder (no, neither Sparrow or Barbossa,
one seems to have something against animals and Barbossa has a annoying
monkey); dirty teeth and horrible breath; the favorite drink of any
pirate, rum; and the British navy with elegant gentlemen leading them
against pirates, and much more! Now the performances, even Keira
Knightley and Orlando Bloom have a good romantic connection in their
characters, their acting doesn't shine much in this movie (they shine
much more in the unnecessary but great sequels that the movie had).
Perhaps the reason for this is the superb Geoffrey Rush, that perfectly
embodying the spirit of a Pirate since the evilness to the "aarrgghhh",
OR the highest and memorable point of the film that is the EXCELLENT
performance by Johnny Depp as the unforgettable Jack Sparrow. His
performance was so weird, so fun and so good that it cost him his
varied roles in films like the weird and funny guy."Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" can be one of
the several examples that entertainment can simultaneously be VERY fun;
well written; well-acted; well directed and contain a luxurious
soundtrack by Hans Zimmer, "Pirates" is entertainment and popcorn-flick
at its best and much more! 10/10

******
28 August 2013
10
Great Movie And johnny deep Is a well actor all time and p.o.t.c series
is a great movies of all time. Comes close to recreating some of the
bigger-than-life wonder that we experience at the movies in our
childhood. Depp is a fey, hilarious wonder.Argh! This be an awesome
movie! It's a fun adventure with plenty of humor, well done special
effects, and great acting. Bummer that this is the only one that
doesn't suck in the series. "The Curse of the Black Pearl" is not a
flawless film; there are some plot points that don't add up. But it's
very unique and makes good use with what the genre has to offer.Here --
in a Jerry Bruckheimer-produced high- seas adventure that incorporates
roaring cannons, oddball comedy, a love story and more than a touch of
the supernatural -- Depp unleashes his theatrical bravado. He's
hilarious.

******
31 July 2013
9
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Curse of the Black Pearl is
a brilliant movie with a very well developed storyline and an
outstanding cast. It's such an entertaining film, I've seen it many
times and I still thoroughly enjoy it every time, the story and
characters are all executed very well and we are never really sure
where the next scene is headed, which is great to see in a movie, you
never really know what's going to happen. My only problem is that they
tended to hold back on the scary moments, just when the film starts to
feel like a bit of a horror and it's sending a shiver down your spine,
it would make a joke or do something to completely lighten the mood of
these scenes, which I do understand because it wanted to be as kid
friendly as possible, but these parts would have a much better effect
had they been more thrilling. The cast are of course a major part of
what makes this film so great, there is excellent chemistry between
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley, Geoffrey Rush is unrecognizeable as
his character, but the star of the show is, without a doubt, Johnny
Depp, it will come as no surprise with a character as flamboyant and
likable as Captain Jack Sparrow that he manages to steal every scene
he's in, certainly one of the most beloved movie characters of all
time, for all the right reasons. Action packed, thrilling and also
quite funny, I would recommend Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of
the Black Pearl to anyone looking for a good action or adventure film. Will Turner must team up with wanted pirate Captain Jack Sparrow to
save the governors daughter Elizabeth Swan from a gang of pirates that
have become cursed by their ship, the Black Pearl.Best Performance: Johnny Depp

******
10 July 2013
10
Actually there is much to say and admire that it may become a very
large composition. The first and foremost matter is the acting was
seriously great. The acting of Captain Jack Sparrow is so astonishing
that i forgot he was an actor not a daredevil pirate captain. The movie
was full of fantasy but it didn't have any negative affect of me. The
costume, graphics and specially the language was used is so perfect
that it seemed i was watching a video clip from the great pirate era.
the story out line was something very new. i don't understand why it
was rated only 8.0! it deserves more. Never forget to watch it, it is
something different...

******
9 July 2013
10
I am nearly fifty years old. A sober grown man. With children. Children
with whom I have now sat through hundreds of movies. Many of which I
have enjoyed. And I am not completely hardened in my sophistication.
The opening music to The Lion King brought tears to my eyes when my
little ones were but wee tots. But still, these are after all just
children's movies. In another life, I would never have seen them. And,
really, one can't take such movies too seriously.Johnny Depp's performance is one of his best ever as the slightly camp
Captain Jack Sparrow. Even under his tangle of hair and blackened eyes,
he will make you swoon and laugh both at the same time with his tonnes
of witty lines and mannerisms. Orlando Bloom plays the love struck son
of a pirate, Will Turner and play him he does! This roll highlights the
diversity and skill shown by some of the greats. We will definitely see
big things from him in years to come. In her second roll in big time
flick, Kira Knightley plays kidnapped Govener's daughter, Elizabeth
Swan. She is also another young, up and coming star with a bright
future ahead of her.

******
28 June 2013
10
this movie contains so much fun for the whole family with dead pirates
and ghost ships. the governor's daughter is taken by pirates when she
tells them she is someone else. while this is happening Captain Jack is
using Will to get a crew to go after his ship. when Jack is on Tortuga
he gets slapped a few times by past lovers who now dislike him. after
gathering a crew Jack, Will, and Mr. Gibbs go through storms to catch
up with his precious pearl. as the sort of zombie pirates arrive at
their destination the governor's daughter is put into more danger as
they plan on killing her if she is the right person. in the end Will
saves Jack and his girl from pirates and death.

******
9 June 2013
10
I remember when this cam out when I was much younger. Before this
movie, I didn't take movies all that serious. I was a toddler, stuck in
my room watching Bugs Life and Toy Story. Watching this, however,
changed my view on movies. The amazing story is well written and
directed. The amazing soundtrack makes you want to move, and makes you
feel as though you could take on an army while the theme plays in the
background. The amazing humor that makes you laugh without pushing it
on you or even seeming intentional at times. The amazing actions scenes
that are even better coupled with the soundtrack. Everything about this
movie is simple amazing.This is the only movie I've ever seen that I can say I don't have any
major complaints or criticisms of. Whenever I watch this movie, I can't
help but smile and laugh. I've seen it so many times I have to hold
myself back from reciting the parts of the script that I've memorized
by heart.I can recommend this to anyone of any age any day of the week. It's
quite easily established itself as a timeless classic in my eyes.

******
19 February 2013
9
Pirates of the Caribbean has become much more than a ride at Disney
World: Gore Verbinski has transformed this children's ride into a
summer blockbuster. From the eccentric character of Captain Jack
Sparrow (Johnny Depp), to the sword fights, and of course the romance,
this movie has something for every moviegoer. Verbinski has created a
classic that incorporates adventure, fantasy, and romance into a film
that will keep you entertained from beginning to end.This tale of adventure centers around the bizarre character of Captain
Jack Sparrow, who's crew, years before the plot begins, planned a
mutiny against him and left him on an island to die. Ironically, the
crew of the Black Pearl later became cursed, and the only way to lift
the curse lies in the hands of Elizabeth Swan (Kiera Knightley),
daughter of a Governor. When the crew captures Elizabeth, her oldest
friend Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) teams up with Captain Jack to save
her. The story that ensues is full of energy and an ongoing sense of
adventure that will keep you captivated through all 143 minutes.The key performance of the movie belongs to Johnny Depp, as Captain
Jack Sparrow, he brings his crazy pirate character to life. From Depp's
mannerisms to his wild antics, his offbeat humor shows off his
likability and diversity as an actor. Captain Jack is impossible to
predict and will keep you guessing what he'll do next. His character
brings a fun sense of unpredictability and comic relief to this film,
making Jack Sparrow nearly impossible to dislike. Now what is a summer movie without a little bit of romance? Elizabeth
(Knightley) and Will (Bloom) serve as this movies love sub-plot. Their
love story is a classic fairytale: a poor boy falls for a girl who is
out of his league, while a wealthier, more affluent man is courting
her. She is kidnapped, so the poor boy goes to save her and they fall
in love. While their love story is a predictable one, it doesn't
necessarily take away from the plot. Elizabeth isn't your average
damsel-in-distress; she is an intelligent, independent woman who often
times saves herself as well as others. While the romantic aspect of
this movie is relatively foreseeable, Knightley and Bloom do a
fantastic job at keeping the audience interested in this storyline with
their incredible chemistry.Pirates of the Caribbean is a movie that is a must-see on the big
screen. It's visually remarkable, from its battles set on the seas
surrounding the Caribbean, to the "living dead" beings that are the
cursed crew of the Black Pearl, this movie is so action packed that is
might even make you feel sea sick watching it in the theaters (but not
really). This timeless film will be loved for many years to come, and
it's adventurous plot will have you on a ride for it's entirety.

******
6 December 2012
10
- With so many options to experience a movie from IMAX, 3D, surround or
on a regular TV the options are overwhelming. I can now say I have been
spoiled and can never go back. As part of the SuperPOPS! Concerts
Series, the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra played alongside of a full
screen version of Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl. First the Friday night I attended on this two night series was
packed; you simply could not fill another person in the room. This
Pirates series revolves around the adventures of Captain Sparrow
(Johnny Depp) who has a good heart but a mischievous spirit and a heart
of a pirate. The kind Captain Sparrow simply wants to recapture a ship
so that he can lead a team of merry men on the high seas. This is the
problem; he crosses paths with wily Captain Barbossa who steals his
ship the Black Pearl. Unbeknown to Sparrow the Barbossa crew has a
curse that can only be removed from the blood of a living decedent of a
pirate. With maiden Elizabeth Swann in the mix, the British fleet gets
in the mix lead by a charming Commodore Norrington all to make a fun
witty old school pirate tale. At first you think that the presence of a
full orchestra will be a distraction but Conductor Richard Kaufman
quickly took command of the ASO and they seamless blended into the
background and you are transformed to a magical journey to the high
seas. Simply a fantastic experience to see these artist in full swing
and the only, I mean only way to see a movie. Coming up December is a
full schedule of holiday treats, do not miss out to hear this music
loud and reignite the spirit of the season.

******
8 November 2012
9
Pirates of The Caribbean: The Curse of The Black PearlWhen I first saw this movie I had no idea what to expect as I have
never really took interest in action pirate movies. It turned out to be
a pretty good movie with comedy, action, and a little suspense and
romance thrown in. I was beginning to take a really deep interest in
this movie about 1/3 of the way through. The actors were really
experienced and really got into character. If the actors didn't get
into character as much as these actors did or, weren't as experienced
then the movie would not be as excellent as it is. They really drew me
into the movie. I felt that once I saw the first movie I had to watch
the whole Pirates of The Caribbean Series because the end of each movie
left me hanging and I needed to see what was going to happen next. I
felt the cast did a good job in keeping the viewers hanging at the end. All the main actors played their roles well so it made me feel like I
actually know all the characters. Johnny Depp did an excellent job in
playing the pirate; Captain Jack Sparrow. It was like he was made to be
Jack Sparrow his personality and everything. The director made the
right choice in casting Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow. He acted the part
as like I knew Jack Sparrow, like I have met him in reality when he is
just a fictional character in a movie.I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes action and or comedy.
The actors transitioned from action, to comedy, to romance all very
easily. They showed that they could play the part with ease. Yes it
does take a while to get the part but, these actors made it look so
easy based on how well they played their part. On the other hand there were some parts where the actors could have
gone deeper into the part of their scene. For example during some of
the fights there could have been a little more suspense. Though some
fights they did a good job in building up suspense. The actors throughout the movie did a good job in keeping the viewers
wondering what was going to happen next. It kept me wondering through
out the whole movie. I enjoyed how they kept the suspense going too.
The movie was not another cliché pirate movie either, it was something
different and new. In conclusion I really enjoyed the whole movie. The director and script
writer did a good job in filming and putting the movie together. I
enjoyed how they paced it because if they wanted to they could have
shortened the whole movie. The special effects on the movie didn't make
the movie look bad either, they did a good job on adding them into the
movie too. "Jack Sparrow: If you were waiting for the opportune moment,
that was it." This quote means to me that you have to take the moment
whether it is a good time or bad. People think all pirate movies are
the same, but they are not. After watching this movie would you
consider this the same as all other pirate movies?

******
21 October 2012
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is an adventure
fantasy film based on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disney theme
parks.It features Johnny Depp,Geoffrey Rush,Orlando Bloom and Keira
Knightley together with Jack Davenport,Kevin R. McNally,Zoe Saldana and
Jonathan Pryce. It was directed by Gore Verbinski and produced by Jerry
Bruckheimer. The story follows blacksmith Will Turner and pirate Captain Jack
Sparrow as they rescue the kidnapped Elizabeth Swann from the cursed
crew of the Black Pearl, captained by Hector Barbossa. When Elizabeth
Swann, the daughter of Governor Swann is kidnapped by a group of
pirates led by Captain Barbossa and taken aboard their ship, The Black
Pearl, Will Turner, the young man who loves Elizabeth despite the fact
that she is promised to another, sets out to rescue her. But he can't
do it alone, so he enlists the help of swashbuckling ship captain Jack
Sparrow. Together the two chase after The Black Pearl, but they soon
discover that the captain and crew aren't your average pirates. Cursed
to remain between the living and the dead, Barbossa and his men look
like skeletons when basked in the moonlight. When it is revealed that
the only thing that can break the curse is Elizabeth's blood, Jack and
Will are faced with a race against time and a battle against the undead
to save the Governor's daughter.In this Bruckheimer-produced high-seas adventure that incorporates
roaring cannons, oddball comedy, a love story and more than a touch of
the supernatural has Johnny Depp unleashes his theatrical bravado. He's
hilarious as he gives his loosest and looniest performance yet and it
is spectacular.Entertaining, exciting, and engrossing with a genuine
feel of adventure along with excellent performances, this is truly
worth watching.

******
21 August 2012
10
I love this movie as much as I love the sequels as well. A very great
beginning, though I must admit that regarding the special effect's and
action sequences , they improve later in the following sequels.
Nevertheless, the film is great. The plot is twisted and catchy, the
action sequences are great also, especially the battle between the two
ships later in the movie, the actors are very talented, they made each
of their character unique and lovable, and last but not least the score
is amazing and draws perfect with the epic scenes, Klaus Badelt and
Hans Zimmer did a perfect job.An awesome movie, surely worth watching. Gore Verbinski did a fantastic
job. Johnny Depp portraying the funny and a bit lumpy captain Jack is
beyond amazing and hilarious the same time. Geoffrey Rush portraying
the cursed and twisted captain Barbossa is surely the best performance
I've seen. Orlando Bloom plays the perfect knight in shinny armor for
our Keira Knightley's though lady character. And also, although they
play "small" character's, Lee Arenberg's and Mackenzie Crook's Pintel
and Raggeti are by far the most hilarious little villains in the movie.This being said, like I mentioned earlier a great beginning for what
will be an awesome series from that day forward. Congratulations to
everyone who contributed in making of this movie.

******
17 June 2012
10
This review may contain spoilers!My favorite POTC movie!Anyone can watch it who wants to watch a really
long adventure-fantasy movie for relaxation!As good as Indiana
Jones,which is great!And Johnny Depp stars in it,who is my favorite
actor!He is very funny playing Captain Jack Sparrow!I recommend Pirates
of the Caribbean:The Curse of the Black for anyone who wants to be
entertained by a great,funny pirate movie,which is best for children
above the age of 12 years in the weekend,or when school is
over.Although it contains a few scary scenes,the skeleton warrior
scenes for example,so children who get scared of creepy scenes should
wait with it until they become 14 years old.That's of course only my
opinion.Enjoy watching!

******
4 February 2012
10
it is a great movie it is a movie that you will enjoy it is a two
thumbs up movie i never saw a movie like this before it is outstanding
it is a 4 out of 4 star movie in my app ion you will say now that was
amazing it is one cool movie it is a blast it is a great PG13 movie it
maybe one of the best PG13 movies i have ever seen it is a masterpiece
you will enjoy it but it is for kids ages 13 and older but it is
outstanding it is a great movie i never saw a movie like this before it
is sweet it is the bomb i never saw anything like this before go see
this wonderful movie today it is out of this world amazing you just
have to see it i never saw a movie this good before and you will say
the same thing now go cook some popcorn and watch it is a great movie
go see it today you will say wow now that was a great movie it was
awesome i never saw a movie like this before you will like this movie a
lot are you ready to watch one of the best movies ever made have a
great day you will like it a lot

******
23 October 2011
10
Blacksmith Will Turner teams up with eccentric pirate "Captain" Jack
Sparrow to save his love, the governor's daughter, from Jack's former
pirate allies, who are now undead.Disney movies personally suck. They only once were good but stuff
nowadays just lost all of it's magic. The whole movies that can live up
to it's full power is Pixar. Then in 2003, this happened. The Curse of
the Black Pearl is the first installment in the Pirates of the
Caribbean trilogy. Haven't seeing the sequels as of yet, this one is
truly a gem. The action sequences (for one) are completely
breathtaking. You'll actually care about the characters and everything
that's going on. The acting is pretty good too, especially for a Disney
movie. Johnny Depp plays a drunken pirate, and a good one at that. He
deserves every one of his awards. Then we come to the score, which is
AMAZING! It increased your adrenaline level and it is really unique. I
have never been fascinated with pirates or anything, but this film is
just awesome, and every aspect is amazing. As of now, I'm getting ready
to watch Dead Man's Chest with entirely HIGH expectations! And listen
to the tag line, you'll be blown out of the water! 10/10.

******
22 June 2011
10
The trailer looked like fun, and we'd been on the ride, so we decided
to go and see this pirate movie.The eerie opening was effective, and this was followed by some mild
intrigue and romance as Orlando Bloom's apprentice swordsmith clearly
wished to romance Keira Knightly's governor's daughter. And then
Captain Jack Sparrow arrived, in one of the best movie entrances
anywhere, any time, and the film took off.It had a strong story, lots of eye candy, humour, action, knockabout
slapstick, excitement, swashbuckling adventure, a dramatic and
memorable score, an eclectic cast on top form, terrific special
effects, lots of nods to the theme park ride, a cracking script, and a
fabulous central performance from Johnny Depp.Completely unexpectedly, it turned out to be one of the best and most
entertaining family films of recent years.Superb.

******
1 June 2011
9
The first installment in the Pirates of the Caribbean series, "The
Curse of the Balck Pearl" is the best movie from the original trilogy.
Since the creators consider "On Stranger Tides" a reboot, I won't
mention it except for this time.This film is about a blacksmith in some Caribbean island that tries to
get his beloved one back from the pirates who kidnapped her. In the
process he teams up with the eccentric but very likable Captain Jack
Sparrow. We find out later that their stories are connected somehow to
the mighty ship "The Black Pearl", that used to be led by Sparrow
before Barbossa and the rest of the pirates took it over in a mutiny.One of the best aspects of this movie is the plot, is not simple as you
might expect from a Disney movie about pirates, it's really original,
with the correct amount of adventure, romance, action and fun. I wasn't
excited about this film when it came out, but when I caught on TV years
after its original release, I was blown away. At this point, I watched
all the movies from this series and liked all of them, but this is far
superior than the other two.It has some kind of magic, I was really excited when I was watching it
for the first time, it made me feel something, and that is the reason
why this one is better than the other two (They were not bad, but I
think that they didn't match this one). It has many positive sides,
like the outfits (I don't know if they were historically accurate, but
they looked great nonetheless), the breathtaking scenarios, the dialog,
and obviously, the actors.Every actor was great. Bloom was convincing as the reluctant pirate,
Keira was charming as Elizabeth, and she is beautiful, and the rest of
the cast was great also. An special mention goes to both Rush and Depp
who were extremely good in their roles as Barbossa and Sparrow
respectively. Even if Rush plays the bad guy, is likable as a character
because he was both funny and evil, and had a strong presence on
screen. I won't even try to spend words to say what everyone thinks
about Sparrow, nobody could possibly play that role like Depp.But not everything is perfect in this movie. One of the negative
aspects I found were some "funny" lines that felt out of place and
little forced. On the other hand, it was a bit long for my taste. There
are also some mistakes in the plot, but they weren't big thankfully.I recommend it to everyone because is really entertaining , it has
great actors in great roles, and it was like a real adventure. You
won't be disappointed

******
19 May 2011
10
"Pirates of the Caribbean" is one of the best adventure franchises of
the recent years. It is a incredibly funny and exciting combination of
adventure, action, fantasy and comedy, with excellent results.The performance of Johnny Depp is magnificent, and his character (Jack
Sparrow) is one of the most memorable and fascinating (And also funny)
characters of all the history of the cinema.The rest of the cast was incredible here, too. All their characters
were great.The special effects and the music were excellent, and create a great
atmosphere of adventure. It is epic, exciting and enjoyable."Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" was a perfect
beginning for a great trilogy, and it was one of the best adventure
flicks of the recent years.

******
5 May 2011
9
This movie was one of the best action/adventure films in the last
decade. It is an adventure film, with a lot of genres involved. There
is a handful of fun action, a lot of funny dialog, and some character
development for the drama. It is an all ages movie. I think this is
Johnny Depp's best role. The supporting actors are also up there in
performance. This is a first of its kind being very unique in many
ways. Its all about pirates on the seas and hunting for treasure and
the like, nut it puts a whole twist into it with the funny side remarks
and the family adventure style. If you enjoy watching fun effects and
beautiful scenery and like a good old fashioned adventure film, this is
definitely for you!

******
13 July 2010
10
This movie is the opening to a very good franchise though this is the
best one of the series yet(I heard really good things about #4). The
only other pirate movie I saw before this was Hook. Hook should not
even be compared to this. Sorry, Mr. Spielberg! Johnny Depp, in my
opinion, turned Jack Sparrow into the Top Ten list of all-time acting.
Savvy? Elizabeth Swann, daughter of a governor, was kidnapped by a host
of feisty pirates. Now her lover Will Turner join forces with Jack
Sparrow who used to be with those pirates to rescue Swann.This movie has a little of everything here. There's plenty of action,
adventure, comedy, and romance. I didn't want to see this movie when it
first came out, but I was forced to. I'm glad I did. I rate this movie
10/10.

******
7 August 2005
7
A group of mutinous pirates, led by the villainous Barbossa, have been
cursed to sail the seas as ghosts until they return every last gold
coin from a stolen Aztec treasure chest. Their former leader, Captain
Jack Sparrow, is seeking his revenge upon Barbossa and the return of
his ship, The Black Pearl. The pirates kidnap the Governor's daughter,
who possesses one of the coins, and the scene is set for a heroic
rescue ...Here's a movie first I think - a film based on a theme-park ride - but
Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio's script is a tremendous action-filled
pirate adventure in the classic style, with plenty of sea-dogs, cutlass
waving, treasure-hunting, unrequited love and general swashbuckling.
There is a lot of good-natured mugging by the likable cast, but Depp
steals the show as the lovable Jack Sparrow - bold and dashing but also
downtrodden and dubious, with a wonderful Cockney accent and too much
mascara. Verbinski balances the film beautifully, keeping the story
rolling along nicely, with action, scares, comedy and romance in equal
measure. There are several terrific set-pieces; the swordfight between
Depp and Bloom in a smithy, a moonlight sequence where the pirates are
revealed in all their ghostly glory, a great bit where Depp and Bloom
steal a ship but get caught by a faster ship and boarded and then steal
that ship, and a great escape-the-hangman's-noose scene at the end.
There is a wonderfully rousing score by Klaus Badelt, great visual
effects by John Knoll, and Jerry Bruckheimer's production is lavish.
Everybody should enjoy a good pirate movie from time to time, and this
one is terrific.

******
12 June 2005
6
Pirates of the Caribbean wasn't the best movie I've seen, but it wasn't
the worst either. If nothing else, it was just plain escapist fun and a
swashbuckling adventure ride. It's more style than substance and pretty
much just captures your attention because of its cool effects. The plot
itself is pretty much nothing spectacular or very surprising. Even
though the movie has great actors like Johnny Depp, Keira Knightley,
Orlando Bloom, and Geoffrey Rush, I kept on getting the impression that
each of them could have somehow done better. Especially Orlando Bloom
who didn't really seem to be making much of an effort. I'm told that
there's a sequel in the works - two, in fact. So either the producers
are leaving room for improvement, or just looking to make a quick buck.

******
29 January 2005
7
I would like to say, that I did not expected anything special from this
"movie of Disney production". It is not a very best piece of art, but
it is piece of art. I think, and I tell it to everybody with which I
talk about films, that film is a kind of art. It is in essence a
theater piece fashioned with modern digital effects and sounds and
music. It is art and it is hard to say, that it is just good or bad.
But shortly: this movie is family movie and story is very simple.
Characters are not preciously described, but every "holes" are
counterbalanced by Johny Depp's acting (and Rush). Without Depp it
would be a little boring movie, but with him it is fun to see it even
twice or more. In this category (family "fairytale" movie) it is very
amusing.

******
12 October 2004
7
If you want to see a entertaining, light, shallow movie, you've come to
the right place. Pirates of the Caribbean's blend of comedy and action
works wonderfully creating a truly fun movie to pass the time. The
cast, for the most part, is great, especially Johnny Depp, who turns a
interesting character into wonderful, show stealing one. This contrasts
with Orlando Bloom, whos character is already boring compared to jack
sparrow without Blooms acting adding to it. Yes this movie is one of
the most entertaining movies i've ever seen, but it is little more.
While Depp's character is memorable, i can hardly remember the details
of the plot any more and the movie has little artistic value. If you
want to see johnny Depp, I can suggest What's Eating Gilbert Grape,
Edward Scissorhands, or Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas as some
alternatives, but if you're just in the mood for a movie that lets you
sit back and relax, look no further than Pirates of the Caribbean.

******
30 August 2004
6

Well, I finally got around to seeing this because I continue to hear
such rave reviews and decided they can't be all wrong.Turns out, I was wrong: this movie bored me bored me bored me. By the
time the movie was half-over, I began waiting impatiently for the
smallest sighting of Johnny Depp - any scene he was in was incredible:
his acting was genius, his costume was perfect, and his Captain Jack
Sparrow consumed him. During his appearances, the scenes were
understandable, sensible (for a quirky Pirate movie), and extremely
entertaining; I laughed aloud almost every time he was on screen.Unfortunately, if he was not involved in a scene, it was guaranteed to
be confusing and boring. Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush were the only
actors whose lines could be understood the first time listening, I
felt. I saw this on DVD with the convenience of the life-saving remote
control to rewind when I couldn't get it. How did theater-goers
manage?? Everyone else spoke too fast! I found myself rewinding many of
Kiera Knightley and Orlando Bloom's lines, along with a few of the
pirates. What's up with that? Why the frenetic spewing of lines? Depp's
and Rush's words flowed from them as though part of their being, their
essence. Masters, they are.The story unnecessarily twisted back and forth - trust or don't trust,
honesty or dishonesty, honor or betrayal - it went from one extreme to
the other like the audience was in a secret attempt by the writers to
break the Guinness Record for yo-yoing. Too much work for the audience,
for too little payoff, I say; it was exhausting. I am guessing that the
ride in the park is similar: back and forth and back and forth, just to
the point of breaking "the fine line," you know, when you are just
about to throw up? Now that I think of it, the actors' quality of
performances yo-yoed from scene to scene as well. Up with Depp, down
with Bloom. Up and down, up and down. It could have ended far sooner
than it had.And the special effects, while impressive programming for video games
and home entertainment centers, also did nothing for me when
substituting skeletons for fleshy humans in this movie. I found the
graphics an answer to the laziness in not using real humans in makeup
and costume. They looked incredibly costumed and made up as human
pirates, why not try the same technique for the immortal pirates? I
thought it was kitschy and a cop-out.Johnny Depp outperformed everyone in this movie, including the writers
and director. Other than Rush, the only others who performed on nearly
the same level were the two goofballs trying to prevent him from
docking, and later holding the flag during the execution scene.6/10


******
11 August 2004
7

It's hard to review such a popular, blockbuster film as Pirates. Basically,
Depp's acting is terrific. So is Geoffrey Rush's. Bloom makes another
appearance in a big movie, but both his and Knightley's characters are
fairly shut out due to Depp. Some great dialogue; the script is absolutely
hilarious. I have to admit I loved the costuming and makeup (it's
unfortunate that all its Oscar nominations occurred during the year of Lord
of the Rings). The music is also wonderful, fitting the adventurish theme
perfectly. Although the story has a couple flaws and there is a fair bit of
Hollywood predictability, the movie counters this with humour and good
storytelling. All in all, the first pirate movie of its kind - modern,
funny, and adventurous.

******
24 June 2004
6

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) - 6.5 /
10Johnny Depp is simply this films saving grace. He plays a brilliant
pirate captain, who, after leading his ship astray was mutinied and
walked the plank. His composure, facial expression and emotion all
captured the character perfectly. The role of Captain Jack Sparrow
couldn't have been cast better. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley were
both very average. Bloom is destined to become the next Adam Sandler,
playing one character  and playing it poorly. Geoffrey Rush was quite
decent; however was no where near up to the level he's previously
reached in films like Shakespeare in Love.The special effects were pretty too look at, but style-over-substance
is never a good way to go about making a movie  and it seems this is
the route Gore Verbinski has lead 'Pirates of the Caribbean'. At 143
minutes the movie was far too long. The slower sections felt as if they
dragged on for hours, and the action sequences were over before you
could batter an eyelid.'Pirates of the Caribbean' is watchable, and entertaining, but not
brilliant, or even near-brilliant. Depp makes watching Pirates
worthwhile but I'm generally not a fan of a film that's held on the
shoulders of one great performance.


******
14 June 2004
6

This is exactly the kind of story I'd wish to see when I was a kid.
Action, horror, lady to save, and so on... SFX are good and surprising.
Acting are good (great Geoffrey Bush !) except for Johnny Depp and his
character.His character : a teenage-looking pirate who is SUPPOSED to be an old
friend of the father of a man. But the son (Will Turner) looks older
than him ! Unbelievable ! And more : this kid-pirate is supposed to
have been the great chief of the worst pirates of Caribbean, twelve or
twenty years before ! Sorry, I can't swallow that !It's clear : Johnny Depp is really too young for this part ! I know,
it's a sex symbol. But what for ? He's not the one who got the girl at
the end ! I think a more mature man (like "Jack Nicholson" for example)
would be a better choice.And what about his make-up ? He looks like a "transvestite", he just
missed the lipstick. That's a bad choice, again.To fight all these bad choices, this poor Johnny overacts loudly to
gain credibility. But in vain !So, for those who can forgets an enormous casting mistake, the movie is
pretty good. For those who thinks that a casting mistake can sink a
movie, avoid this one.


******
10 May 2004
7

Without a doubt this is Johnny Depp's film. As Captain Jack Sparrow he shows
once again what a versatile actor he is. He bursts forth on the screen as a
wily pirate character full of tricks such as distracting his adversaries
with non-stop chatter.His swaggering walk unsteadied by a little too much rum and his flippant
manner endear him to us immediately.  He seems to fear no man, and despite
his unkempt appearance has a way with the women too.Johnny Depp has a mammoth task.  He is on the screen most of the time.  The
success of the film largely depends on his performance.  Never once does he
shirk this responsibility.  Indeed he seems to enjoy every
minute.The battles at sea with cannonballs flying through the air bringing down
masts and rigging and gouging great holes in the decks are a triumph of set
design.  Wooden ships are very inflammable and lend themselves to some
dramatic moments with everything aflame amid noise and confusion.  There is
almost too much to watch at one sitting.  It is just as well because the
story is pretty thin.The film especiaslly in the sword-fighting episodes is reminiscent of some
of the early serials that once excited us at the Saturday afternoon flicks. 
Despite clash of steel on steel not much blood is apparent among the
roguish-looking pirates who all look as if they need a hot bath. The make-up
is right on target, a real credit to the artists.Much of the time Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa has to act with a monkey sitting
on his shoulder.  An excellent little touch I thought as it added to his
nasty character.  I could not take my eyes off the monkey.  He stole every
scene for me.If we may judge from the almost endless listing of credits, a lot of work
was put into this production.  It's loud and noisy and lots of fun and will
be especially appreciated by those who grew up on pirate stories, and as in
all those stories it's the good that triumphs over evil in the
end.

******
12 April 2004
6

I was not thoroughly impressed with Pirates of the Caribbean, as I had heard
several glowing
word-of-mouth reviews.  I have to admit that Johnny Depp's performance was
quite hilarious
and was the best thing about this movie.  One complaint is that the movie is
way too long.  They could
have easily chopped 30-45 minutes from this film without sacrificing
anything.
Another complaint is the level of violence.  I am a horror fan, and
certainly am not against violence in the movies.
However, the impression this movie gives prior to watching is that it is a
Disney-esque film.  I think
the PG rating is too leniant and the given the stabbings, shootings, and
blood that abound in this film,
they should have raised it. 6/10

******
15 February 2004
8

I've seen this movie in the theater with a couple of friends last year.
When
we were talking about the movie on our way home I realized that I was the
only one who really liked it. I guess that if you are watching this movie
with the expectaition to see a realistic pirate adventure you are going to
be disappointed. When I saw the movie I was instantly reminded of my
favourite computer game of all time: The Secret of Monkey Island. If you
know what I'm talking about you basically know what to expect. I gave it
8/10

******
11 February 2004
8

If you need a reason to see this movie, it's Depp's performance as the
eccentric Jack Sparrow.  I think it's cool he received an Oscar
nom.Keira Knightley had some good jokes as well.  Orlando Bloom is okay,
although I'd like to see him in a role other than the pretty hero dude.
The
only other thing I've seen him in is the LOTR trilogy.I agree with the others, the movie could have been shorter.  But it's
entertaining enough to pass time.If you have 2 hours to waste, this a nice movie to watch.

******
16 January 2004
8

Since July everyone has been telling me you have to see pirates you have to
see pirates. So i listened to them and rented it. I just finished watching
it and now I see what I was missing. The action, the effects and the best
performence of 2003 by Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow which should get him an
oscar nod. I stress the word should because it's highly unlikely but never
the less he should. I was stunned how fast moving the story was it seemed to
be quite fast for a 2 hr plus movie. The whole 2 hrs though was an exciting
ride with thrills and chills. The effects could give Return of the King a
run for there money I think. Anyway in one line AWESOME!!4 out of 5 Stars.

******
8 January 2004
8

Every now and then, and truly fun and totally escapist movie enters my
radar.  I really enjoyed this movie.  The thing I enjoyed about it most was
watching Johnny Depp playing Keith Richards playing a pirate!  Great stuff. 
As much action and special effects that were going on, it was still Depp who
made this movie as much fun as it was.

******
29 December 2003
8

`Yo! Ho! Ho! A pirate's movie is not for me!' I always said every time I
watched a torturous pirate film. In fact, the most pleasurable live pirate
episodes I have experienced were the ones where some of my compadres seized
their mate's stunning girlfriends in several happy hour watering holes. In
fact, that can lead to pirate `eye-for-an-eye' warfare where it turns out
too difficult for friends to patch things up. Anyway, back to pirate films.
I am astonished but glad to report that `Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse
of the Black Pearl' has broken the curse of horrendous pirate flicks. The
film is based on the Disney attraction ride, and the movie does not derail
from its voyage of cinematic cleverness. Johnny Depp stars as Jack Sparrow,
a charismatic pirate who is on a quest to regain his old ship `The Black
Pearl'. Johnny be very good with his oscar-worthy performance as Sparrow.
With this work, Johnny has paid his Depps I mean debts to those critics who
have condemned him for not selecting roles in more commercially appealing
films. It is one of the best acting pieces of the year! Co-star Orlando
Bloom is blooming into a star with his role as the Blacksmith on a quest to
rescue the Governor's daughter Elizabeth Swann. Speaking of which, Keira
Knightleys breakthrough performance as Elizabeth was also commendable.
Geoffrey Rush as the evil pirate continues to demonstrate his scene-stealing
ability to portray scoundrel antagonists. Director Gore Verbinski provided
just the right touch of Goreism for it to be a Gore candidate as the best
film he has directed. `Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl' is the pirate film for me! So guys take your hoe hoe hoe (sorry
ladies) to watch this jewel and you will see that this pirate film is for
you too. 
**** Good


******
27 December 2003
6

I had heard so much about Johnny Depp's performance in this film that I had
to see it just because I am a fan of Johnny Depp. And he didn't disappoint
either as Captain Jack Sparrow aka "The Swishbuckler". And others in the
cast were fine as well including Geoffrey Rush even if my reaction was "what
is he doing in this fromage". As the love interests Orlando Bloom was fine
and Keira Knightley while no where near perfect was okay.But folks at the end of the day this was pure fromage. Fun but fromage
nonetheless. From the moment Captain Jack (Johnny Depp) entered the scene
and stepped off his sinking boat onto the dock all you could do is burst out
laughing as you knew this was, well, pure fromage. And if course it didn't
stop there to the Pirate with the glass eye, Geoffrey Rush playing the baddy
to the hilt, all of the sword fights and while the Pirates changing into
skeltons and back again was pure fromage it was well done at least
especially the final battle scene with Depp and Rush. Topping the list of
fromage was the Pirates den which looked like well something you would
encounter at a cheesy theme park. Of course it was based on the Disneyworld
Pirate theme park so what did you expect - realism. Okay this wasn't Academy Award material but Johhny Depp's performance might
be and at least it was fun should save this piece of fromage from the
Razzies. See it. But folks don't take this fromage too seriously. IMDB top
250 material this ain't despite its current score. 6/10.

******
27 December 2003
8

Final Score: 8.6 (out of 10)`Pirates of the Caribbean: TCOTBP' has got to be the most fun movie to come
out of a studio assembly line in quite some time. Saddled with the arduous
task of stringing together a movie based on a ride at Disney World, the
`Pirates' crew has come through better than anyone (including the suits at
Disney) ever expected. It captures the spirit and fun of the ride, but with
a storyline that stands alone and  reputable stars like Johnny Depp &
Geoffrey Rush willing to go with all of it's cartoonish lunacy. The movie is
joyously hollow, escapism without pretension. The script is cheesy, but
intentionally so and smarter in it's themes than it may first appear. It has
a formulaic love story, which it all but ditches for the more interesting.
In this case that's the flamboyant anti-hero Jack Sparrow.Director Gore Verbinski slides smoothly into the roller-coaster popcorn
action genera but, as with `The Ring', he breezes over crucial plot points
as if we already know the rules to his universe resulting in a few moments
end that unnecessarily tax the mind at times when I just wanted to sit back
and enjoy it. Verbinski seems to be having to much fun as the movie draws
out it's ending as if it can't get enough of itself. Between Depp giving a
performance better than this movie probably deserves, and the delightful
visual effect marvels of seeing skeleton ghosts (a novelty that wisely
separates this from the commercially dead Pirate Movie), `Pirates of the
Carribean' gets the job done in a slick way. A nice summertime lark and a
terrific musical score to boot.  

******
20 December 2003
6

I've got to admit this is one of the most disappointing films I saw this
year. It was nothing more than a two hour pantomime, featuring some
credible
acting talent. Has Depp been watching the BBC's "Stella Street", as he has
an uncanny likeness to Keith Richard's character in the show. He's
probably
the best actor in the film as well. Bloom was wasted. Rush was
surprisingly
not evil or nasty enough. The supporting cast was decent enough including
some stand out performances from the British actors. The only people I can
see enjoying this sort of tosh is children and underdeveloped
adults.Can they be making a sequel. Please God no save us the
pain.a generous 6/10, mostly for set design/costume and special
fx.

******
18 December 2003
8

When I first heard that this was coming out, I rolled my eyes at the
title-- great... Disney trying to make yet more money on things they
had well-established in Disneyland.  Yeah, fine, whatever.
I have to admit, I was pleasantly surprised.  This movie is a fun
little ride-- not fantastic or amazing, but enjoyable.  Johnny Depp is
amazing in characterizing this pirate-- is he drunk?  Is he crazy?
Or is Jack Sparrow just pretending to be that way?  He keeps up
the act through the entire movie, which is a feat in its own
right.
So sit back and be entertained.  It's not earthshattering, but a good
little pirate adventure for a couch movie night.  

******
14 December 2003
8

This film was fun for the whole family. We all enjoyed it very much.
Johnny
Depp did an amazing job, as did Orlando Bloom.The costumes and sets were
amazingly done, as was the dialogue. I highly recommend this film to
anyone
who enjoys adventurous, amusing films. 

******
10 December 2003
8

I'm really sorry that I missed this one on the big screen and watched it on
DVD (on my 35" TV). I can only imagine how much more entertaining the movie
must have been in the theater.Even though I had already heard enough positive comments about "Curse of the
Black Pearl", I must say that I had not expected to enjoy it as much as I
did. It had almost the perfect proportion of comedy, romance, adventure and. . . . surprise.The special effects, visual and sound were great (and I'm sorry I didn't
watch it in the theater). I'm not sure if I will actually get the DVD (I
only watched it for the very first time last nite), but I am quite
tempted.Anyway, I also just found out that there is going to be a sequel coming out
in 2005. Can't wait for it.

******
4 December 2003
7

I saw POTC at the cinema and wasn't that blown away by it to be honest. So I
rented it to see if maybe I liked it more second time around, seeing as how
everybody seems to rate it so highly.But no, I still think it's overlong, unfunny and...just average really. It's
not the worst film ever, but it certainly doesn't deserve the 'best film of
the summer' taglines either. There's too much talk and not enough action
IMO, and the leads are pretty to look at, but utterly bland in the acting
stakes (Bloom and Knightley have all the sexual chemistry of two wet towels
being thrown together). And Depp is just annoying. What's so 'brave' about a
performance that basically comes down to pretending to be drunk for the
entire movie. Brave? I'd call it lazy if anything. And I'm a big Johnny Depp
fan, before you beat me with clubs.Cutthroat Island however, is a much better pirate movie IMO. Hell, all the
best action in POTC is stolen from this very movie (the monkey, the
ship-to-ship firefight, characters getting trapped in the hold before the
ship blows up).Don't get me wrong, I liked POTC, but can't help but feel it's hugely
overrated, especially compared to the bombastic action in Cutthroat Island.
I hope POTC 2 is an improvement

******
4 December 2003
6

As the subject states, this movie is typical Bruckheimer fare. Interesting
special effects, minimal story, and too damn long. Thankfully strong
performances by Depp and Rush pull the project through. Despite the gushing
claims of teenage girls, the supporting performances by Bloom and Knightley
are utterly dismissible. I'm sure they sold tickets though. All said, it
wasn't a bad flick.

******
14 November 2003
8

Normally, pirate movies aren't my favorite because of the tremendously
special effects. But this movie has it all: the special effects are great,
good humor, a beautifull girl, nice story and last but not least an
amazing
act as pirate by Johnny Depp.
I already had big expectations of the acting from J. Depp after seeing
Fear
and Loathing in Las Vegas, but still it was a pleasant
surprise.I realy enjoyed this movie from the beginning till the
end.

******
13 November 2003
7

I am really a sucker if it comes to oldfashioned adventuremovies that's why
I like Indiana Jones so much and it's a delight to see that in 2003 a
piratemovie has been made just like those with Burt Lancaster. Nothing
changed, pirates still drink and they're still smarter than the Marine but
this is a perfect movie if you wanna enjoy yourself with some
Hollywoodnonsense. And really...the performance of Johnny Depp is
splendid!!!

******
4 November 2003
6

Johnny Depp was good as always. Also, the usual corny romance between the
two main characters wasn't as bad in this movie. Overall, I recommend you
see it if you like seeing movies.Good movie based on a ride, but Haunted Mansion???

******
29 October 2003
8

I wasn't expecting much when I walked into the theatre to see this movie.
I
mean - it's a movie based on a ride for goodness sakes.  But they actually
manage to pull off making something that is a lot of fun to watch and
manages to be a spoof of other swashbuckling movies as well.  Johnny Depp
is
particularly good in his lunatic role of Jack Sparrow.  He definitely
makes
the movie with his nonchalant air of cool confidence while at the same
time
- messing up a good percentage of the time.  His make-up was a little
overdone - but his character itself is so odd, that I found I forgot all
about his makeup about five minutes into the movie.The sword fight between Sparrow and the young blacksmith is all one could
hope for in an all-out acrobatic and elaborate duel.It's not a masterpiece by any means and the movie suffers from some
predictability.  The second half of the movie isn't nearly as tight as the
first half before Sparrow and the blacksmith steal the boat in pursuit of
the Black Pearl. Overall though, it's much better than the average modern
flick out there involving swords and ships - especially considering the
original premise.


******
28 October 2003
7

This movie is an absolute blast to watch.I really enjoyed myself, and
laughed pretty hard during some scenes. I can't recommend it enough, the
cast are all perfect, although Johnny Depp steals every scene he's in.
Overall, just good plain fun!
don't's vote: 7/10

******
27 October 2003
8

Although Pirates Of The Caribbean contains some HUGE flaws and features an
extremely cheesy ending, it's a great movie. I've seen it 3 times and I
can
honestly say that this is one of the most entertaining movies I've ever
seen. Depp makes this movie, his character is the best thing about the
whole
movie. All in all this is something you don't want to miss8/10

******
24 October 2003
8

There is a large group of candidates, but Pirates of the Caribbean gets the
vote for my favorite movie of the year thus far. I love everything about it
and it still entertains me after more than half a dozen viewings. There's
incredible swashbuckling action, hilarious tongue-in-cheek humor, and
delightful performances all around. The star of the show is the always
reliable Johnny Depp, who turns in a career best performance as the seedy
but lovable Jack Sparrow. He takes turns chewing scenery with Geoffrey Rush,
who is perfectly over-the-top as Captain Barbosa. The supporting cast is
great as well, but Depp and Rush leave them in the dust. If you haven't seen
PotC yet, do so. It's the most fun you'll have from a single movie this
year, and probably many years for that matter.

******
22 October 2003
7

Yep, that's pretty much sum it up. This is an entertaining summer movie. A
thumb up for Verbinski and/or the film editor that decided to keep the
running time more than 2 hours. It allowed for character development and
interaction. Quite engaging at times and the cgi usage was effective and
precise.Plus you have gorgeous casts and big budget. Everyone had
fun.

******
22 October 2003
8

Slightly overlong romp that will put a smile on your face from beginning
to
end. After the moronic Bad Boys II Jerry Bruckheimer has redeemed himself
with this fun, humourous swashbuckler. Johnny Depp never fails to
amuse.

******
19 October 2003
6

I have never been to Disneyworld or Disneyland so going into this film I had
no idea what this movie based on an amusement ride was going to be about
except for the fact that it was going to have pirates in it.  And lots of
them.  After seeing this film, I still have no idea what the correlations
between the ride and the movie are, but I did come to one solid conclusion: 
Johnny Depp is an unbelievable actor.Without Depp in the role of Jack Sparrow, this film probably would have
still done very well.  It's a fun, reasonably well-done swashbuckling film
that has a `cute' lead actor (Orlando Bloom), a `cute' lead actress (Keira
Knightly) and Geoffrey Rush, a very good actor (who has unfortunately made
some, shall we say, `interesting' career choices in the last few years) as
the main villain.  Plus we have a lot of sword fighting, perilous moments
and an undead monkey  all elements that will bring the kids in droves to
the multiplex.  Myself, I had no interest in seeing it really  mainly
because I figured I would either A) embarrass myself by laughing at the
pirate-speak, which never fails to set me off, or B) engage in said
pirate-speak myself, thereby embarrassing both myself and whoever was
unlucky enough to drag me to see the film in the first place. I could not ignore the buzz surrounding Johnny Depp's performance however,
which ultimately is what got me into the theater in the first place.  He is
*so* incredible as Jack Sparrow that even a subtle facial expression or use
of body language was enough to make me laugh out loud.  I have long
respected his career since he eschewed the mainstream `hunk' roles that he
seemed to be genetically predisposed to doing after his stint on 21 Jump
Street in favor of more avant garde fare, but this particular performance
solidified my opinion that he is one of the best actors we have in the
industry right now.  I remember hearing that he had taken this role last
year and was disappointed that he seemed to be jumping from his
independent/obscure film repertoire in favor of commercialism, but his
inspired performance will without a doubt get me into the theater to see the
sequel(s).  In terms of the direction, I had absolutely no problem with Gore Verbinski's
approach.  I found it to be atmospheric and evenly paced, and the special
effects were impressive as well.  Conclusively, a good movie  with Johnny
Depp, a great movie.--Shelly


******
16 October 2003
9

I have one word: Pirates rock.I've never thought much about pirate movies, maybe because most of them
are
so alike. But occasionally, movies comes up that changes your mind
completely, and I think that this movie is one of them. It's amazing! It's
got action, humour, a brilliant cast - everything. And I actually think
that
the regular cliches worked! So maybe this isn't 100% original, but it's
great! The twist with the curse made it so much better... Hooray for the
Pirates.

******
13 October 2003
8

Just got to see this film, somewhat belatedly.  Had heard/read a lot about
it, and I wasn't disappointed - it's very funny and Johnny Depp walks away
with it as Captain Jack Sparrow.  The cast includes a lot of very fine
actors - Geoffrey Rush, Jack Davenport, Mackenzie Crook as well as Orlando
Bloom (Legolas-on-a-boat) and the easy-on-the-eye Keira Knightley.  It's
all
done with great gusto and gives the impression the whole cast were having
a
ball.  Definitely worth seeing more than once.

******
10 October 2003
7

Well, the script is barely above average, acting OK and the special effects
are very well made. The person who did the casting though has to get some
extra credit. Bloom and Depp complements each other perfectly, giving this
movie the little extra that actually makes it something to watch out for.
Sometimes quite funny, but I suspect that they will not pass the test of
time, and a second watching of the movie might not be quite as enjoyable.
The action scenes are of good quality, about what you'd expect from a modern
movie after watching the remake of Zorro starring Bandeiras/Hopkins. Don't
go to this movie and expect to see something new though, the parts have all
been done before, and most of the time better than what you'd get here. The
combination is new though, and as the genre of swashbuckling isn't very
common in modern movies you will find some fresh elements still in this
movie so I'd say that if you enjoyed the aforementioned Zorro (which I rated
9/10), you'll find this a pleasant experience.
My vote on Pirates of the Caribbean: 7/10

******
10 October 2003
7
...judging by high ratings on Imdb. But still watchable enough that 2,5
hours goes by pretty fast. On the other hand, this movie will soon be
forgotten, why? Well, for the story itself, i believe. It provides already seen stuff: a
love story (a terrible part of the movie, since you can't feel any chemistry
between Will (lousy play by Orlando Bloom) and Elizabeth (a mediocre play by
Keira Knightley), pirate duels (some of them way too long) and a simple
story (meant for kids and not so intelligent adults), without any
twists. On the other hand, there's Johnny Depp, which is the main star, what he
proves by great acting. With a slightly more capable director and
screenwriters which could change the script and made it in a love story with
Jack & Elizabeth (heh, like in Beauty & Beast), this movie will certainly
gain some points with more demanding viewers and become a classic romance
movie. Too bad, since the sound part is also great.Since it's not a classic, but somewhat between, only (but still
good)7 out of 10.

******
3 October 2003
9

This movie will likely not earn critical acclaim. It isn't the type of
movie
that earns Oscars, or Academy Awards for best acting, though it has some
very good acting. There is not a deep plotline where everybody suffers
that
attempts to cater to artsy critics that have no idea what a movie is
actually for. It is not even very historically accurate in
details.Pirates of the Carribean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is just plain fun.
It
is a roller-coaster ride, with attractive guides and a wicked sense of
humour. It is an adventure and something of a mystery that is a
coming-of-age story as well.Many people have already commented on the terrific job done by Johnny
Depp,
so I won't go into that performance other than to state that from his
entrance to his exit he is fun to watch, and as effective as Tim Curry
has
been in similarly flamboyant roles.Orlando Bloom does an good job in presenting a character that takes as
much
from Captain Blood as it does from The Princess Bride. His character is
the
young sidekick that is driven and drives the story.If you are looking for the next Amistad, Amadeus, Schindlers List, or
story
with a deep underlying meaning, look elsewhere. If you want to recall the
feelings you had when you were young and going to a movie was something
you
looked forward too, see this movie. This movie was written to entertain,
and
in that, it meets it's goal.

******
2 October 2003
9

This is the first comment I have ever written about any
movie.
What made this movie for me was the absolutely amazing performance given
by
Johnny Depp.  I don't know what the criteria is for giving out an Oscar
but
by damn this man deserves one!!  This is a FUN movie that I believe
everyone
would enjoy.  Excellent special effects, great fight scenes and Johnny
Depp
is just superb.  

******
30 September 2003
7

If you read reviews of films in various newspapers and magazines, you will
eventually notice trends in writing styles and points that are made in the
discourses of the reviewers. In short, when they find something they think
sounds important, they all focus on the same topic, and in a manner which
seems meant to show off their petty vernacular skills, they make
sophemoric
quips and plays on the title of said flick, and/or gobble up several pages
of the calendar section with mindless tripe that doesn't really get the
reader anywhere. Not that a film critic really serves much purpose in the
world, and thus shouldn't be taken too seriously, however, it is the fact
that they are given so much attention for their interchangeably identical
opinions that they should be avoided at all costs. Their recurringly
similar
reviews quite literally ruin movies, for they build an impression of a
film
before an individual has even seen it. In some cases this can be a good
thing, i.e. advice to avoid a surefire disaster, or something like that.
Yet
when said impression is not met by the actual viewing of the film,
disappointment inevitably ensues. This really only concerns films that
would
have been a nice little surprise, where one walks out of the theater and
says, "That was just a fun movie." People who read film reviews don't get
that pleasure anymore, and so, when a reviewer says, "i wasn't expecting
anything, and this turned out to be enjoyable, the audience then goes into
the film expecting something that they otherwise would not have, and then,
don't enjoy the film as much. This was the case with Pirates, where there
was such a deluge of reviews claiming that this was a terrific, fun summer
movie, with a bravura performance by Johnny Depp, that by the time one
actually saw the movie, it seemed dull and pointless. Been there, done
that
sort of feeling. I say, damn the reviewers for taking what was a nice
little
movie, and blowing it into something that it wasn't, so that it seemed
like
an umpteenth viewing of Star Tours up on the screen. You new everything
that
was going to happen, every quirk and eccentricity, and so, it wasn't new,
fresh, or really anything. In short, I advise people to ignore reviews,
and
see a film for themselves first, to determine what they want to think
about
a movie. This would probably have been a nice little diversion, so I would
recommend it, if only on the grounds that one carries no expectations into
it, so that they are not disappointed.

******
29 September 2003
7

At the end a good film for everybody. Wonderful actors,an excellent Johnny
Depp; a delicious, beautiful and magnificent Keira Knightley and a very good
performance of Geoffrey Rush (as the damned pirate). The reality and the
fiction, the special effects at the service to the story... Maybe, someone
can say that exist so much fight scenes, but the story is so good and the
gags so funny... and the quotes, the sensual, brave and adventurous world of
the pirates reflects in each scene, in each sentence... really good, I
recommended you... I remembered some movies that I saw when I was a child...
This is a movie that the nowadays children will remember...


******
27 September 2003
9

Pirates Of The Caribbean is a great movie. It has enjoyable comedy,
action,
and of couse... acting!!! I have to agree with everyone that Johnny Depp
is
a great actor. To tell you the truth this is the first Johnny Depp movie I
thought was amazing and I can't wait until it comes on DVD so I can add to
my movie collection. Disney has finally made a great live action movie
since
Who Framed Roger Rabbit (Which was also PG-13). I can't wait until they
make
a sequal to this..... but it better be good not like those stupid sequals
that Disney does to most it's Disney classics.

******
26 September 2003
8

What a fabulous fun film !!! Johnny Depp should get an oscar for
this one! He was so over the top it was fantastic!! A great swash
buckling tale of olden times.Very Errol Flynn like.  GO SEE IT HAVE
FUN!

******
24 September 2003
8

I have to say that Johnny Deep is one of the best actors Hollywood have seen
in the last decade and he is very good in Pirates. He is the one that makes
this movie to something different than an ordinary J.Bruckheimer production.
When I say ordinary Bruckheimer production I mean a action movie with great
specialeffects and no story (The Rock is an exeption).  Pirates is a typical Bruckheimer production with allot of action and
specialeffects but the story is not so good. But Pirates is a perfect
adventure/action movie alá Indian Jones (but not so good though) and a
perfect movie for a movie night with your friends. But they should have
skipped the two stupid Pirates. The were more anoying than
funny.It gets a 7/10

******
23 September 2003
7

Certainly the chunks of the film that were not in English could have done
with subtitles. Orlando Bloom was the only one who seemed to speak clearly
all the way through.A slightly below average film. A ok plot but with an ending you could clock
from a mile away. The fighting scenes (which 99% of the time never interest
me in any film) seemed particularly pointless here given that the enemy
couldn't be killed.As said several times the two pairs -the 2 pirates & 2 guards (English too-
there was a surprise) were pathetic characters. That was the biggest problem
with the film it tried to be funny & failed and couldn't seem to make out
whether it wanted to target itself at kids, adults or everyone.
Consequently, with such a laid back plot, it became difficult to keep
concentration with the plot, who was cursed, why, how etc
etc.Still, it was an ok story, had some good scenes, kept me reasonably
interested and was acted well.5/10


******
23 September 2003
7

I went into this one expecting not to like it, but went with some friends
who just have to see a movie ever weekend. I was surprised. I laughed out
loud, I got into the adventure and think it is something truly worth
seeing
on the big screen.

******
20 September 2003
8

Good movie, lots of good old pirate action, but the story is a little
thin..
it's clearly that this movie has been made for the effects alone... hope
there's a sequel on the way, cause the theme is GREAT! Johnny Deep is
Awesome! His role as Jack Sparrow is the best role in the movie and Deep
is
matching it perfectly! A must see movie.

******
20 September 2003
8

I went into this movie with a negative attitude. I always have my doubts
about big
budget action films, despite the great cast. I had also seen Verbinski's
The
Ring, and I
was not very impressed. However, I was impressed with this film. It was
full
of laughs,
which gave the appearance that it wasn't trying to take on the plot
completely seriously.
The action scenes were good, and most characters had fairly witty lines
and
were well
acted.
The only problem I have with this film was the way the characters held
together. We
were shown to constant double-crossing, and people that rescued each
other,
then
betrayed them. For example, Jack Sparrow (played by Depp) seemed to have
only thing
in mind. But then, in the next scene, he was saving someone else (by the
way, I'm being
especially brief as I don't want to give away any spoilers to the people
who
have not yet
seen this movie).
Apart from this small problem, this movie was very good, and I recommend
it
to anyone
who likes a good action-packed laugh.

******
15 September 2003
10

First of all, I have to comment on Johnny Depp's quirky, off-beat,
brilliant
performance. This guy is marvellous, and in this rollercoaster-ride of a
movie he delivers his best acting since Edward Scissorhands. The rest of
the
cast also does a graceful, wonderful job, and Keira Knightly's strikingly
beautiful close-ups should be reason enough to watch this cinematic
gem.
Featuring a lot of memorable moments, witty quotes, hilarious
laugh-out-loud
scenes, exciting action sequences, cool sfx and beautiful visuals, this
movie is all about FUN. There's never a dull moment, and you'll be wishing
for more when the end credits roll. All movies should be like this very
well-made adventure. Among a slew of mindless (Charlie's Angels 2),
disappointing (T3) or just plain bad summer blockbusters, Pirates really
shines. Can't wait for the DVD.
****1/2 out of ***** 

******
15 September 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is just the
greatest
movie I have ever seen. before seeing it i loved the lord of the rings
movies but as i saw it i just forgot those... ;) Johnny Depp is the best
actor i know!!!!! he was playing sooooo well and he was looking just
gorgeous!!! Keira Knightley is also very good actress and pretty-looking
but
i don't like orlando bloom very much. the hero that he played was a little
boring and classical hero from the fairy tales... i really hope that there
will be a video of that movie because i can't go to cinema to see it
again... (I've been there seeing it two times already) best movie
really...
:D :D :D

******
14 September 2003
10

This movie has everything!  The acting is great, the cinematography is
great, and the plot is great (Rare these days).  Must see movie of the
summer!!  Johnny Depp gives a memorable, comical, and witty performance as
Captain Jack.

******
14 September 2003
9

I've seen this movie about two weeks ago in Germany and I must say this
movie is great!
If I think of the acting of Johnny Depp I am really stunned, he is sooo
great, although his way of speaking in this movie is better in english is
his output marvelous.
I think I don't have to say anything about the story because it was a
simple
hollywood-like story, with its ups and downs and with its happy end, but
the
film was here and there really funny and the special effects are really
good
too!
Orlando Bloom was really good too and I think you will see more movies
with
him in the future.
The only question that stays for me is that I really don't know why it is
important that Mr Bloom has to give his blood, there is not really an
explanation, but who cares - the movie was so good that you can forget
about
this faux pas.
Go and see it at your cinema because the effects are not so good on a
standard tv set.

******
14 September 2003
8

Sure, the plot was stupid and had plenty of holes, but I left the theater
feeling entertained primarily because of  Depp's brilliant
characterization.
But I was wondering near the end how Knightly got that British uniform
tailored to fit so well.

******
14 September 2003
7

Gore Verbinski's Pirates of the Carribean is one of those summer films
where
you can have a fun time.  It is nowhere near a masterpiece, but it doesn't
have to be.  Johnny Depp stole the show as Jack Sparrow, and Rush was
excellent as the villian.  The visuals are very good, which adds to the
experience.  Keira Knightley is a pretty face, but she has yet to show her
real acting abilities, she sure didn't show it in this movie.  Orlando
Bloom
was pretty dull as well, he didn't really have anything to do other than
follow Depp around.  Overall, a fun film.  7.5/10

******
13 September 2003
9

This movie was extremely good and Johnny Depp was amazing... but
unfortunately Orlando Bloom couldnt match Johnny Depp.  But Johnny Depp
played such an awesome role that he took over the movie and made up for
any
loss in other acting or movie flaws.  I think it is an entertaining movie
for anyone... everyone should see it!

******
13 September 2003
9

This movie was extremely good and Johnny Depp was amazing... but
unfortunately Orlando Bloom couldnt match Johnny Depp.  But Johnny Depp
played such an awesome role that he took over the movie and made up for
any
loss in other acting or movie flaws.

******
13 September 2003
10

When is enough, enough? After viewing this movie 32 times, we are going
to
see it again tonight. The whole atmosphere of this movie is incredible.There is no remarkable violence, no gutter humour, no nudity, just
intelligent story line and great acting. Captain Jack Sparrow is a treat
throughout the movie with his witty humour and off the wall body
language.
This is the first time we have felt so strongly about a movie to see it
this
many times or write a comment about it.
POTC has demonstrated that there is still hope for entertainment.We spend a lot of time on the water and this movie clearly has it right,
it
is "freedeom"  

******
12 September 2003
8
...pure entertainment.It has to be said: The plot is thin, so thin. Sailing to an island,
returning from there, sailing back...
The last line which completed the romantic part was just hilarious and felt
like some pulp pirate story a la "The Maid and the Pirate". I saw it coming
from miles, and I kept repeating "DON'T SAY IT! PLEASE DON'T SAY
IT!"She said it.The action wasn't over the top at all (comparing T3, for example), and there
was clearly more space for better effects.
There isn't a single scary moment, even the introduction of the curse (when
the pirates showed their true faces) looked more like a musical to me.
Nobody in the audience ever jumped. 50 zombies, and not one single scary
moment. Hmm.What a great movie!Honestly, forget all the contra points. Johnny Depp carries the movie from
one laugh to the next, his acting is just one big feel-good-smile. Every
time he disappears from screen, I just wanted him to return. Without him,
it's a below-standard one. With him... Oh my god.(And I'm not even female!
:) I loved him in Sleepy Hollow, but this one tops it easily (the acting,
not the movie - SH is way better in plot/thrilling/etc.)It's not pulp fiction, and surely not fight club, but I can promise you 120
(okay 100, taking away 20 minutes without Depp) minutes of pure
entertaining. Just expect a comedy, and it delivers.

******
12 September 2003
10

I already loved this movie before I saw it. I didn´t know it was made
because of something in a Disneyland, I just saw it for the movie´s sake.
I
love pirate movies, also like Cutthroat Island and all those great movies.
So I wouldn´t want to miss this one.I think Orlando Bloom is a bit sad in his role, he´s not very interesting
or
anything, he´s just being himself, almost like when he played Legolas. As
for Keira Knightley, she played very good, but we knew how it was going to
end when the movie began and she found Will Turner. Geoffrey Rush is great
as the "evil" pirate, Barbossa, in the movie, but they never seem to fail
that role. And for the best character in the movie, Johnny Depp as Jack
Sparrow, he´s got his best role ever. He´s just perfect as the pirate
who´s
always a bit drunk but still knows just what he´s doing. Fun sayings from
him, and his character makes the movie great. He is the reason this movie
is
so great, and I´m not just saying this because I like Johnny Depp. Other
great things in the movie is Barbossa and his men, when they turn into the
dead pirates in the moonlight... they look really... real, but somehow
they
still manage to bring in a bit of humour, so I won´t call it
horror.So I recommend that you see this movie if you like a REAL pirate tale, and
you´re not afraid to cross blades with a pirate like Jack Sparrow...


******
12 September 2003
10

I am a HUGE Johnny Depp fan, but now I am even a greater one. He totally
rocked in this flick! What an awesome performance by all involved. The two
"goofball" pirates were hilarious and perfectly fitting! I have seen this
movie "12" times! I  plan on seeing it a few more times before
the DVD comes out! I have seen almost every "Depp Flick", but this by far
surpasses them all! The movie would sell itself by the score alone! Man,
what an awesome soundtrack! This truly was a family movie without gore and
bad language. It was not a horror flick, or designed to be scary, just
entertaining, which it was! I have always been intrigued by Pirates, and
fascinated by stories of the sea and such. Gore Verbinski and Disney...
"WOW"! Besides the characters, the special effect artists need recognition
as well. Man, what awesome computer work! Too cool! It was absolutely
incredible! The fight scenes where they transformed back and forth so
quickly was Great! I have a neat idea for a sequel, maybe I'll call
Disney!
lol! Thanks from our family to all involved in the Best Picture, of all
times!

******
11 September 2003
10

omg i love this movie so much, the story is great, the characters are great,
the actors are great, everything is just fantastic! i give it a 10/10! i
love this movie, i have seen it 4 times in the theater and i'm definitely
for sure getting it on DVD when it comes out! every time i see or hear
someone talking about Pirates, i have this urge to watch the movie again!
that's the way i was with Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets for me, i
was addicted to it and watched it over the summer A LOT! of course this
isn't about Harry Potter, this is about Pirates of the Caribbean: i hightly
recommend it! 

******
11 September 2003
9

Pirates of the Caribbean is a very fun movie to watch, it's full of
action!!! I must say, it's a very fine exemplar of action/adventure movie.
But on top of it, this movie wouldn't have been that good without Johnny
Depp, I didn't know how good an actor he was before watching this movie, and
now he's pretty much one of my favorite actors! Johnny Depp was seriously
awesome in the movie, I was quite surprised how he could act like that.
You've got to see the movie to understand what I mean, and this movie is
definitely a worth watching in the cinema, it's got cool effects! Final say,
I rate this movie 7.5/10

******
11 September 2003
10

This has to be the most funniest unpredictable live-action comedy I've
seen.
Johnny Depp is great as Captain Jack Sparrow, he gives the best comedic
performace I've ever seen and I would sad if he didn't get an oscar
nomination.
If you haven't seen this film, you better get to the cinema and see it
because your missing out on a comical masterpiece of a film.It's a rarity that a film can be frigtening and funny at the same time,
but
this film pulls it off and leaves you wanting more.  I plan to see it
again... and so on. :) .. it deserves your money.Yay for Disney for producting two great films.  Finding Nemo and Pirates
of
the Carribean. Both with great scripting...


******
11 September 2003
10

"pirates" is by far the best movie of all times, (in my personal opinion)!
i
would buy it for the score alone. the music always makes a movie, however,
this goes above and beyond. there is also no other actor that could have
taken on and conquered the role of "captain jack sparrow" other than
Johnny
Depp. what an oscar winning performance! this was not a "stereo-typical"
pirate movie, it was an adventure to behold and enjoy! i say "hats off" to
everyone involved to the best flick of 2003!
crickett koch
garland,texas

******
11 September 2003
10

I have to admit it - I had some prejudices about Pirates of the
Caribbean -
the Curse of the Black Pearl. I was in a belief that it would be either a
pretty scary children's movie or a boring sword-clanging movie with
Orlando
Bloom as a stupid pirate.But, as usually, I was proven wrong.The movie was hilarious, exciting, unique, adventurous and romantic all
the
same. While there were serious and exciting sword fights and attempts to
take over Captain Barbossa's crew, Capt. Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) always
appeared as a comic relief and easened the atmosphere a
bit.One of the best things about PotC was absolutely it's smooth and clever
dialogue. I had probably one of the best laughs ever in movie history
while
watching this pearl of movie industry. PotC was funny, but not too funny
so
that it would have ruined the movie's adventurousness or scariness (yes,
it
was scary, occasionally. Or what do you say about a skeleton-monkey?).Jack Sparrow is definitely the coolest pirate there is. And he wouldn't
have
been much if it wasn't for Mr. Depp here. Johnny did an amazing job
playing
Jack Sparrow and I must say, as a big Johnny-fan, that this was his best
role so far.Luckily the name refers to the fact that we might get a sequel - the movie
didn't make it too bad on the box offices...Overall this was a very entertaining movie in every way.
10/10.

******
10 September 2003
9

With "The Ring" Gore Verbinski showed that he is a director, who
understand
to create atmosphere. In "Pirates of the Caribbean" we see, that he's
able
to direct Hollywood blockbuster movies at its best! An effect and action
hit
with atmosphere, many colors and an unbelievable perfect acting Johnny
Depp
in his best role ever, which will sure bring him an oscar nomination.Gore Verbinski + Jerry Bruckheimer...   a mixture that
fascinates!This movie makes fun and that not too lastly because the score. Klaus
Badelt
(discovered by "The Ring" composer Hans Zimmer) has written a loud
exciting
action score, that in connection with this film let nobody's adrenalin
level
down!

******
9 September 2003
10

When I first heard about this movie, I was very afraid that it would be just
a lousy and boring movie about pirates. Then I heard it would be about
undead pirates and the movie started to get uninteresting for
me.
When I saw the first previews and scenes from the movie, the tension raised
a lot.
Yesterday I saw the movie and it was the best movie for the last two years.
Matrix - Reloaded sucked, but this one made me see it a second time at the
cinema - o and watch it!!!

******
9 September 2003
10

This movie was excellent.  Johnny made this movie, and Orlando was the
perfect addition (and eye candy).  I hope that there will be a second, a
third, etc. just do not lose the magic.  I recommend this film for
everyone
and it makes the ride at Disney even  more special!

******
9 September 2003
10

Warning: Possible Spoilers
I went to see this film towards the end of the Summer, and by myself. The
boys sitting behind me kept flicking popcorn into my hair because they
recognised me and they didn't like me, the seats were too squashed, the
lady
in front of me seriously needed lessons to be classy, and the popcorn was
totally duff despite the fact that I paid 5 dollars for it. So you
wouldn't
expect me to like `Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl.' I
wasn't expecting to like it. I only went to see it because Johnny Depp is
one of my favourite actors, Kiera Knightely is one of my favourite
actresses, and the people on IMDb said it was good. But I did enjoy this
movie. The two hours I spent in that cinema was one of the best two hours
ever spent in my life.
Now.about the movie. Don't expect an Oscar winning performance from
Orlando Bloom, because you are so not going to get one. He is, to be
perfectly honest, quiet average. But Johnny Depp is hilarious, Geoffrey
Rush
proves to be a great actor once again, and Kiera gives a fine performance
to
rival hers in `Bend it Like Beckham.' The story is that will Turner and
Jack
Sparrow have teamed up to save Elizabeth Swann, who has been captured and
is
aboard ship on the Black Pearl. When I first read the synopsis, I said,
`I'd
rather watch `Signs.' Oh, how much I take that back. The story may sound
totally goofy, but trust me, it gels fantastically.I am so going to get this movie when it comes out on DVD. Along with an
eyepatch so I can be a pirate (joke.)


******
8 September 2003
9

For about 30 years now I've been a fan of Pirate films, from Captain Blood
and The Black Swan to even the Muppets Treasure Island I've pretty much
enjoyed most pirate films I've seen, even Polanski's Pirates was worth
watching to me.
POTC is so far and away one of the best Pirate films I've seen, it has all
the elements of the classic Swashbucklers made in the 1930's that so many
folks have had a hard time emulating. Depp and Bloom reminded me of 21st
century versions of Errol Flynn and Tyrone Power. They had charm, humor and
a sense of fun and pure enjoyment for what they were making. Not so serious
that it felt heavy like Cutthroat island, which was decent but still lacking
in the pure escapist fun that the original films had.
I think that is why this film is so good, Mr. Verbanski was able to give us
a true sense of the world of Hollywood Pirates. I mean who'd want to see
real Pirates? They were dirty, nasty, brutal murderers and had very little
sense of adventure that you see in these films. Remember folks, this isn't
history..it is fantasy!
Hurrah for Disney, they've produced a film that sounded ridculous at first
but became a true reminder of the Swashbuckling adventure films of
old!

******
8 September 2003
10

My entire family really enjoyed this movie! Jack Sparrow was so funny
through the entire movie!  And of course the love story between Will and
Elizabeth was good!   I recommend this movie for 12 and up some parts
might
be a bit scary for the younger viewers watching.  I really did enjoy the
entire movie. Parents, this is NOT a very graphic movie, but some parts
may
be a bit scary for children. There is a lot of action, but most is
blood-free. There was no nudity, and only one kiss, be warned, there is
some
drinking, but that is a pirate film for you. Overall, it was a very clean
movie, will beautiful scenery, nice romance, and good action.

******
8 September 2003
8

Go seeing a movie without knowing exactly what will happen within the next
2
hours is always exciting. Previews of "Pirates of the Carribean" couldn't
show to me what kind of movie I'm going to see. Such a great parody of the
ancient pirate movies with such two great actors and of curse special
effects.Of course the story is quickly told, but the way the story moves on and
the
characters getting more and more into action you enjoy the movie even
more.My favourite scene is just at the beginning when Jack Sparrow (Depp) sails
Into the port with his tiny "pirate boat".Final statement: Go see the movie in theatres or later on DVD!


******
8 September 2003
8

Jerry Bruckhiemer, hits again with this little picture. He doesn't really
make the best films but from a producers standpoint he's at the top of his
game. He knows what america as a culture wants to see. And Johnny depp
blew
me away. He's finally getting the notice he deserves.

******
8 September 2003
10

This movie was great!  I have to agree with former comments that Johnny
Depp
"made" this movie.  He played his part excellently!  I do not, however,
agree that the other characters were hollow.  Orlando Bloom, Keira
Knightley, Geoffrey Rush, and Jack Davenport all did wonderful jobs as
well.
Each of them contributed a significant amount to the success of this
story.
It was very well casted!  A film well worth watching again and
again!

******
8 September 2003
10

A truly action-like movie!
Johnny Depp, and Orlando Bloom (Role in Lord of the Rings, I, II, III)
have
truly fascinating roles in Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the
Black
Pearl and act as though real pirates. The plot of this movie travels afar
and it's either a romantic period or a bloody fight against pirates. The
fights are quite short but have a purpose to them. Overall, this movie is
for anyone, especially for people who have an intrest in pirates, or like
action, and adventure movies. Slow fights, romantic times, and sailing
adventure makes it 10/10!  

******
7 September 2003
8

When I went to see this movie, I was expecting so fun summer action film. I
got a whole lot more. This movie is full or great characters and a good
plot. Johnny Depp should win an award for his portayl of Cpt. Jack Sparrow.
If he wasn't in this movie, it would just suck. Keira Knightley is very hot
and easy on the eyes and she is a bright talent that has a big future in the
buisness. This is probably the best movie of the summer.

******
7 September 2003
8

*POSSIBLE SPOLIERS*So, I don't really like pirate stories, and the idea of a movie based on a
ride doesn't blow my skirt up either, and i'm not one of those guys who
just
sees movies because they're movies, i love movies, but, i don't have time
to
see everything out there. So, why is the hell did i go see this one? My
friends Justin said that he felt that it was going to be the best movie of
the summer, and i figured what the hell, i'll just go see it, if i'm gonna
be an actor, i prolly won't act in movies i like all the time, so, it'll
be
a good excercise.There were flaws in it. The scene where Depp gets swung around the wooden
poll, it is very obvious that it is a stunt double. Also, pirates that
can't
get killed fight on and on with their swords. But, all of that crap is ok,
because, this is not the type of movie that is suppose have everything be
flawless and to always makes sense. This is suppose to provide a good
time,
and that it does do. It would have been nice if some of the problems
weren't
there, but, they are a non issue just because of the sheer energy of the
film. Depp's charecter and Depp himself also do this movie alot of
justice.
Depp's charecter, Jack, is a perfect example of a charecter that that does
not need to have an arch, but can still be interesting threw it's dinamic.
Jack doesn't change in the movie, your perception of him does, but, he
doesn't, he's the same robber baron that he was at the begining. His
performance of the role is also something to behold because he plays it
with
incredible comic timing and with sparking originality, which saves the
part,
because, as i said, it has no arch, Depp adds the dinamic.All in all, a good flick, i suck at deciding what number to give films,
but,
i think this is a pretty solid 8.

******
7 September 2003
10

A movie everyone should see. Love pirates, hate them, don't care.. it's
more
than a ride-inspired pirate film. Exquisite acting on all parts gives a
good
foundation for the atmosphere of the piece. The script was extremely
well-written, acted, and applied. The story, written by two of the
greatest,
is perhaps the most unique and inspiring pirate story of all time. This
movie is witty, energetic, fun, and it pulls you into the plot. My
favorite
film ever.

******
7 September 2003
9

I loved this movie, (because I missed the 20 first minutes the first
time)I
saw it twice... and I did not get bored.
All good ingredients are there to make a very good entertainment: a lot of
actions, jokes, loves, suspense ("not so much": may say some... but it is
not a thriller!), good story and also very good actors. Johnny D. is
excellent as usual (I am a fan), and also Geoffrey R.
Costumes, pictures are also good. The love story of this movie does not
take
the whole parts, but only give a lovely touch to this action movie. I did
not give 10 out of 10 for that movie because the 10 minutes end are a bit
too much "American cliché", with the exception of Johnny D. who is
definitely a great actor.
One of the best Pirates movie I have ever seen (Technology and special
effects help a lot, but what will be the life if we refuse all new
technologies?!) 

******
6 September 2003
8

My rating: *** out of ****. When I saw the Pirates trailer, I thought it would end up being a decent
movie. It was a solid fun for the summer where I have been underwhelmed and
disappointed by some movies. Pirates is nothing revolutionary its just fun.The acting is mostly good. Johnny Depp delivers one of his best performances
as Jack Sparrow, he is funny and just entertaining to watch. Geoffrey Rush
is also very good as the bad guy. Orlando Bloom is fine. Newcomer Keira
Knightley, while very beautiful, is just plain bad here.Director Gore Verbinski does a decent job directing here. This is not his
best film nor his best directing. I think he was much more successful with
The Ring. Pirates is visually well made. Great Costumes, Good Visual effects, and nice
sets. It may not be a great action movie, but its solid fun.


******
6 September 2003
6

Ok, I must admit, I went in to see this film with rather high
expectations,
but I was aware of the danger of it being overhyped and tried to watch it
as
openminded as possible.That being said, I still cannot deny that it has left me dissappointed.
When
I heard it was supposed to revive the pirate genre, show some awesome
specialFX and would feature J.D. as a pirate, I half expected a dark and
erie story that would keep me at the edge of my seat and make me mumble
"woooow" every now and then into the bucket of popcorn I am holding on to.Well... none of it came through. Don't get me wrong, I did find it
entertaining, but all throughout the movie, I kept thinking that I
watching
a film that was meant to be animated and reminded me strongly of former
disney antics, just that (thank god) they didnt break into sing every now
and then...The story is barely more than ok, slimly suits the audience of 12+, the
characters are flat and stereotype, the Fx are awesome but sometimes not
put
to use too well I feel - the zombie pirates didnt really scare anyone at
all
- and the humor was often flat and failed to hit its mark more than
once...It is a sunday evening film for entertainment, even of the family sort,
but
certainly not what I would spend the saturday night start-off money on...
I'll give it a 6 out of 10, barely missing a 7, and it is 100% absolutely
NOT the best film that came out this year.

******
6 September 2003
9

I think the movie reviewers must have had bad days when they saw this
movie,
because their opinions are cranky and don't make sense! Pirates of the
Caribbean is a blast to see, if only for the old-fashioned swordfights,
romance, witty comedy and hilarious acting by Johnny Depp. Depp totally
steals the show with his clueless swagger and drunken one-liners. Kiera
Knightley and Orlando Bloom also perform relatively well, although I think
Knightley's show in Bend it Like Beckham was better. Orlando plays a
classic
shy-but-determined romantic, which works well for him, especially since
(fortunately for all the Orlando-lovers) he has more lines in this than in
both of the Lord of the Rings movies combined. The movie as a whole is a
good way to spend some time, and a ticket worth paying for (which can be
hard to find sometimes). I absolutely recommend people see this
film!

******
6 September 2003
10

I just saw Pirates this afternoon and to be truly sincere, I liked very
much
and I don't think that I would change 1 single bit from the film.I liked the fact that the action started immediately. MAYBE there were
some
parts (small ones but) that were slightly far-fetched but the result was
good with them. The film length was just right not too short, neither
long -
1 point in favour. Another thing I liked about the film was that some
parts
were predictable and others weren't. Also, I think that every action had a
purpose and wasn't done just to fill in time.
The actors were very good. Johnny Depp was hilarious. So were certain
lines.
Another good thing about the film was that humour was spread here and
there
not all in one go. One point against the film was that I wasn't exactly
sure
why the blood was needed to lift the curse. Either it wasn't specified or
else I was too busy admiring Orlando Bloom and missed that part. (For
those
who haven't seen the film - sorry if I seem vague or senseless but I don't
want to give any information on the storyline.)
You will find fight scenes galore which I really enjoyed and there's this
particular scene  when the pirates step in and out of the moonlight which
I
really loved.
Film summary: mixture of pirates, romance, action, magic and luck. By the
way, Jonathan Bryce has a very very funny scene and we simply couldn't
stop
laughing my mum and I.  My advice is that this film is definitely worth a
try. In fact if
I have the chance I would certainly go see it another time. Congrats to
all
the cast & crew.

******
5 September 2003
7

True to the ride I guess. I think we all wondered what the plot of
Disneyland's ride was, considering there never was anything it was based on
(yet it was one of the COOLEST)Plot: First you wait in line. Then sail through lovely seas of the
Caribbean. Then there's a skull saying something mean to you, your boat
falls down and splashes. Things get dark. Then Pirates
happen.Like Disney's family ride, you get great scenery, you get some thrills,
spills, and some good honest humor, particulary with Johnny Depp's crafty
swaggering character. Bloom and Knightley fit in nicely when it comes to the
tale of a damsel in distress and her true love saving her. Rush commands his
army of pirates well with a matured manner, yet he can still be quite evil.
What really deserves some credit is the Special Effects and the Pirates
themselves. We get a good gathering of savages and thieves, giving the ride
lovers what they wanted. Good swordplay and great ship battles, what more
could you want? A less sappy ending I guess. I mean C'mon!Bottom line: It has Hollywood branded all over it's filthy tooth smile but
it delivers what one would want out of a Disney Pirate movie, much like the
ride (before they took out the pirates chasing women).

******
5 September 2003
10

This really was a very enjoyable film. The special effects were brilliant,
the acting was good and it was well cast.The one thing that made this film though was Johhny Depp's excellent
performance as Jack Sparrow. He didn't act the character, he WAS the
character! Although Orlando Bloom gave a good performance too, the film
wouldn't have been half as good without Depp.The only negative thing I can say is the ending was a little weak, but
with
the rest of the film being as good as it is, it's easy to overlook that!I took my 12yr old to see it and he loved it. I'd recommend this film to
anyone looking for good swashbuckling entertainment and a good laugh (and
to
all Johnny Depp fans!).

******
5 September 2003
10

I've read numerous reviews about POC being a fun summer flick blah blah
blah. But I think it was much more than that. Besides being a fun way to
murder the heat wave, this was actually a great film. Gore Verbinski
should
be proud.The acting was superb. Orlando Bloom is wonderful in the only other role
I've seen him in besides LOTR. He's going to be huge. Keira Knightley was
great as Elizabeth Swann, as was the ever brilliant Geoffrey Rush..but I
must say stealing the show was Johnny Depp. He was hilarious from his
first
scene riding atop the mast of a sinking ship to the final
cut.I wasn't expecting that much, other than a summer action flick sprinkled
with one liners...especially in that it was a pirate film and it was based
on the disney ride. This was well worth the 7.50. And hopefull a few
awards
while we're at it..

******
5 September 2003
10

I went into the theatre with very high expectations of this film, and even
though it was not perfect, it was an entertaining ride from start to
finish
- the perfect summer movie!Johnny Depp excelled as Jack Sparrow; Captain Jack Sparrow, that is! :)
Also, Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom also made a great couple ;P
!Though the movie lagged in some parts (the action scenes could have been
more original), the script was very witty, with plenty of well-delivered
jokes (mostly on Johnny Depp's part). I would strongly recommend this
movie
to someone who was looking for an entertaining evening in the
cinema.

******
5 September 2003
10

I had low expectations when I went to see "Pirates of the Caribbean: The
Curse of the Black Pearl." After all, it is based on a theme park ride for
Pete's sake. I left the theatre wanting MORE.I love EVERYTHING about this movie. It shows that a blockbuster can be
both
intelligent and entertaining.  The score, the visual effects,and a
wonderful
cast come together to create what I feel is the most entertaining film of
the summer. Verbinski fills the screen with beautiful photography,
humor,action, and awesome sword fights (in particular, the one that takes
place in the blacksmith's shop). The fight scenes seem pointless since the
villainous Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) and his men cannot die. But the
British
Royal Navy aren't aware of this, and so they skew the evil pirates with
their swords. Also, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), and Jack Sparrow have no
knowledge of the immortality of the Black Pearl's crew. They, too, try in
vain to kill them."Pirates of the Caribbean" is loaded with humor and goofy one-liners. I
particularly enjoyed the Abbott and Costello antics of a pair of pirates,
one of whom has a wooden eye. In one scene, they are in a row boat dressed
in women's clothing.Clearly, the highest praise goes to Johnny Depp for his performance as
pirate, Jack Sparrow. Excuse me, 'Captain' Jack Sparrow. Imagine the
Rolling
Stones' Keith Richards in a pirate costume and you have an accurate
picture
of the character. And who knows? Perhaps pirates were the rock stars of
their day.Do yourself a favor and add "Pirates of the Caribbean" to your to-do list.
You will be glad you did. Savvy?


******
5 September 2003
9

I had a tough choice - see an already proven but maybe repetitive "Tomb
Raider" movie, or the "Pirates". I decided to try something new, for a
change, somewhat prepared for lots of Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley
yawn
romance, just spruced up with a piracy theme.I couldn't be more wrong.The moment I saw Jack Sparrow - excuse me: Captain Jack Sparrow - played
by
Johnny Depp with surprisingly well placed black eyeliner, I knew that this
time a secondary character would steal - excuse me: commandeer - the
screen.
And a heck of a job he did at that!Of course there's much more. Based on a Disney theme, this movie features
most extraordinary swordfighting action which is... precisely timed with
the
music! Remember the old days when Disney movies had almost every move of
every character accentuated by musical instruments? This film takes this
technique a step further: it's not only separate instruments, but a
wonderful full-blown orchestrated sound track keeping in sync with the
clashing swords, jumps, kicks, dodges and parades. Think "Dance Dance
Revolution" in swordfighting terms, if you wish.And, there's more. Crazy dialogue lines, again mostly by Captain Jack
Sparrow. Good special effects, featuring a merry skeleton crew (pardon the
pun, but I'm surprised they didn't place THIS one in the movie! Or did I
miss it?). Hilarious and ridiculous plot twists and quirks, ranging from
loading cannons with silverware (fork missiles, anyone?) to sailing on the
top of the mast (when the rest of the ship has already
sunken).That it's not very complicated? It doesn't have to, it's a family
swashbuckling movie. That it has a happy ending so sappy that it oozes? So
what, movies created for simple entertainment have to have happy endings.
That it's full of cliches? That's the stinkin' point, ye landlubbers!
Avast!But speaking of Monkey Island in the summary above, for the non-gamers of
you, there is a series of games under that title, about the adventures of
a
would-be pirate with a ridiculous name of Guybrush Threepwood, which alone
provided tons of fun as no-one could pronounce it properly. The games are
packed to the brim with piracy humour... and if I ever see any of them
filmed, I definitely want it done the Black Pearl style.It's been a long time since the last good pirate movie - which, in my
opinion, was Polanski's Pirates - but it'll take even longer than that to
top the "Pirates of the Caribbean". Definitely a new standard has been
set.

******
5 September 2003
10

Just returned from my first viewing of POTC - Sooooooo hilarious, all my
nerves are still aching from laughing.A very clever mix from the best bits and pieces of "Captain
Blood",
"The Sea Hawk", "The Black Swan" and "The Crimson Pirate" (the carrying of
the small boats under water for cover, and disguising extremely ugly
pirates
as women to distract the attention of the soldiers from the main action),
and bits from the Disney ride, like the prisoners trying to convince the
dog
who has the keys to their cell with a bone to hand them over. Also Captain
Barbossa as a skeleton drinking wine resembles a figure at the ride, who
is
rumored to be a reverence to Errol Flynn, who apparently gave Walt Disney
the idea to the ride in the first place. And there is also a nod to
"Troy"...Kira Knightley is as least as graceful and witty as Olivia DeHavilland was
in her pirate days, opposite Errol Flynn.Sword training with the elves has certainly left a mark on Orlando Bloom,
and his moves resemble Errol Flynn, not much of a surprise as he has got
his
major training from Bob Anderson, who had brushed up Errol's movements for
one of his last pirate movies "The Master of Ballantrae".
Not to forget that he has become a really good actor, and a very handsome
one too. But I still kept looking for the pointy ears ...Johnny Depp is over the top, not as something between Keith Richard and a
French cartoon character, but as a mix between Ozzy Osbourne and Robin
Hood,
with a hint of Burt Lancaster's artistic skills and humor as Vallo in "The
Crimson Pirate" thrown in for good measure ...One of the best movies I have seen for a long time, and certainly one of
the
best pirate movies I know - and I know pretty much all of
them!I'll see it again tomorrow. And again in the times to come...Yo-Ho!

******
4 September 2003
10

Truly one of the best movies this summer. After the pirate-franchise was
dead for so long it's really refreshing to witness its
revival.Although there are many differences between this and the older pirate-flicks
(more action, more funny situations and humor, undead, disney-production,
etc.) it still gains a top spot among the best.There was not a minute I felt bored, Johnny Depp's performance was
outstanding and completely new and unexpected - but still fitted
perfectly.
The more or less predictable ending (a bit trashy but fitting) might be the
unique weak part of the film.The worldwide success is justified in every aspect. This movie truly earned
the crown of this summer.

******
4 September 2003
10

I liked it so much! It was so exciting! Even if it lasts nearly 2 hours and
a half, you never get a look to your watch, because there's always something
going on. Everything is so accurate: from the ships to the details of the
costumes. All the actors are very VERY good, Johnny Deep is SOO good and
Geoffry Rush too: I liked Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom a lot
too.
The story is interesting and there are some twists and turns that always
keep your attention to what's happening on screen.
I think I'm gonna see it again during the next days.


******
4 September 2003
10

If ever there was a summer that needed a film like Pirates of the
Caribbean
it was the summer of 2003. For all their merits as entertainment, the
likes
of X2, The Matrix Reloaded and Hulk were all fundamentally serious
affairs,
treating their subject matter with a sober integrity. Pirates isn't that
kind of movie. Pirates has only one agenda: fun, fun and more fun. It's
the
kind of tongue-in-cheek, flight-footed family movie that will almost
certainly be premiered on BBC1 on Christmas Day in a couple of years, and
will soon after be making regular appearances in Bank Holiday TV schedules
for years to come.It has so much to recommend it - the old-fashioned swashbuckling action,
the
sparkling gag-filled script, the gorgeous coupling of Orlando Bloom and
Keira Knightley, the stunning CGI - and yet it's easy to pick out its
strongest point. With a performance that deserves an Oscar nomination (but
of course he won't get it), Johnny Depp - as the roguish, ambiguous,
enigmatic Captain Jack Sparrow - doesn't so much light up the screen as
burn
a hole in it. Keith Richards is the obvious basis for his
characterisation -
all lop-sided tics and mockney accent - but unlike the wrinkly axeman,
Depp
looks fantastic. Never before has a man with a plaited beard, dreadlocks
and
permanent eye shadow looked so damn attractive. His forays into big-budget
territory may be few and far between, but there can be no doubt that the
guy
is a proper Movie Star.It would be a lesser movie without Depp, but that's not to say the movie
relies on him. It's like saying that Indiana Jones would be a lesser movie
without Harrison Ford, purely because he's so perfect for the part.
Pirates
stands worthy comparison with Spielberg's archaeological trilogy. Director
Gore Verbinksi (returning to the family-oriented mood of his earlier
Mousehunt after the grisly The Ring) makes light work of handling multiple
characters, a fairly complex revisionist plot (in this pirate movie, it's
all about putting treasure back), judging the scenes of the supernatural
just right so that they scare the kiddies without giving them nightmares,
and allowing even Geoffrey Rush (with the toughest task of the four
principals as the cursed villain of the piece) to camp it up and have some
fun. Leave your cynical, adult self at the door, because for sheer
uncomplicated entertainment value, Pirates of the Caribbean is the best
movie of the summer, if not the whole of 2003.

******
4 September 2003
10

If anyone is to receive praise for this movie, the competition is tough,
but
our leading man is defiantly our number 1#!
When you think about the memorable characters that you associate with
Johnny
Depp, for example Edward Scissorhands,  Edward D. Wood, Jr. and  Inspector
Fred Abberline to name just a few, you see him create a character to which
you will always make a connection.Captain Jack Sparrow is a character to whom i would have never linked to
Johnny Depp, but following his performance in The Pirates of the
Caribbean:
The curse of the Black Pearl, i can see no person to parade this character
in his full potential better than Johnny. A very good actor to bring a
very
good character to life.Not forgetting other actors and actresses in this film who also made it
one
to remember. Geoffrey Rush, Captain Barbossa makes you believe this truly
is
the maddest man to move a mast! Demonstrating a character who has
determination and the will to put up a good fight to get what he wants, be
warned, never mess with him.Once again, we see Orlando Bloom make the girls smile as he puts up his
sword and proves he is worthy to grace an action movie set with whatever
weapon you got! A fine performance!Finally, we have Keira Knightly, who proves, just because she is young,
she
can still take on Hollywood.
Few films can make you cry with laughter but at the same time make you
fear
what is coming. That, i believe, is one of the reasons to which i must
applaud this film.My film of Summer 2003!


******
4 September 2003
10

For me this movie is really one of the greatest movies of all
time!
With a great Johnny Depp, who plays really fantastic , not only because he
is so funny but also his wonderful facial play. And the great special
effects. For example when Jack, (sorry!) CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow and Barboosa
fight, and the become skeletons every time the pass the moonlight. Great!
And also this wonderful and beautiful Keira Knigthley, who plays like an
"old hand" but is only 18! years old. (ok, only is the wrong word, because
she is older than me)And Orlando Bloom also does a good work, but all
other
actors are put into a shadow by Mr.Depp. I also think that it is a good
story, because of all the turnings the movies is exciting.I really hope that there will be some movies in the next time which are
nearly as great as this is, savvy?
(please, excuse my grammatical mistakes!) 

******
4 September 2003
10

A wonderful film for the family. Johnny Depp steals the show as Capt Jack
Sparrow. And Orlando Bloom is a great swashbuckler! I've seen it 4 times,
and I don't think I'll ever tire of it. Of course you'll have to see
yourself if you haven't! Should be up for best motion picture score for
the
Oscars next year.

******
4 September 2003
10

Enspiring performances from various actors with a funny highlight in the
eccentric flamboyant character of ` Captain ` Jack Sparrow played by
Johnny
Depp who got inspired by the soul of Rock & Roll guitar playing Keith
Richards.The acting performance of Jhonny was done with a lot of depth &
Soul.Johnny Depp could be the new star on the stardom gallery
sealing

******
3 September 2003
10

SIMPLY AMAZING!!! This film is SO DAMN GOOD. Johnny Depp is the most amazing
pirate in the world. 
From the first moment i saw him appear on screen i was on the floor
laughing, and his opening scene where he looks so proud that he's standing
on a boat thats sinking. Johnny Depp IS the film, and without him it could
never of happened. Don't get me wrong i love Orlando too and Laura Knightly
was great in her role. But Depp gave it something special. Something that
not many people have.
I thought he was a great actor before the movie, and now I think he's the
best. 
I don't know how some of these reviews can be so miserable.
THIS FILM ROCKS!!! Infact I'm craving it now, and i can't wait for the
DVD.
If you have a good sense of humour then you will love this film.

******
3 September 2003
10

This is a must see.  Rush, Depp, and Bloom are all fantastic in this movie. 
Depp's flamboyant Sparrow character really pulls you in, and you forget you
are watching a movie based on a ride in Disney Land.  Much more violent than
I would have guessed for a Disney picture, but nothing so graphic that it
takes away from the film.  The many twists and turns in the movie really add
to the enjoyment.

******
3 September 2003
7

The casting is good it works. The scenery is good. The special effects
work
well too as they are used to support the story and are not a gimmick unto
itself. The music however is a bit awkward. The theme tune is fine but it
is
repeated incessantly and in the major fight scene where you are trying to
follow the swordplay and effect and characters it is totally wrong. The
music is distracting and doesn't follow the events on the screen, as it
should. It breaks the scene down and distracts, which is a great
pity.A great movie, go and see it.


******
3 September 2003
10

This movie was funny, and a great film for the whole family. My father
took
me, his girlfriend, her two young sons, my sister, and myself to see this
movie a few weeks ago. We all laughed our butts off. Johnny Depp was at
his
best in this movie (not to mention his sexiest). He plays Captain Jack
Sparrow with a zest that cannot be matched. I especially loved when he
said,
"Welcome to the Caribbean, love." That was one of the best lines of the
film. I voted it a ten, and recommend it for those who are considering
seeing it. It should win several awards this year. I'll be very
disappointed
if it didn't. 

******
3 September 2003
9

It is true that when it comes to "serious things" this movie has a
couple of cheesy lines and cliché scenes.  But then again, every movie
this
summer has consisted of this plus a crappy story and  a plague of
mindless
special effects.  And therefore is movie is an eye-freshener.  Johnnie
Depp
is fantastic, no matter how many people have already said so!  The movie
is
very funny, has good special effects and a simple yet charming story.
This
and Finding Nemo is all we'll remember from this weary months.  Believe it
or not, we have come to having to thank Disney for this year's scant fun.


******
3 September 2003
6

This movie kept my attention and was worth seeing, but was flawed and
fairly
cheesy and predictable. I had a good time watching it. The acting of
Johnny
Depp was great, and it gave the movie some comic relief. However, it was
typical in the sense that the "good side" is a fraction of a second away
from being destroyed when the hero does something slick in the nick of
time
to escape the "bad side". Stories with this element are corny and
predictable.6/10


******
2 September 2003
5

My first inclination upon hearing about a film based on a Disneyland ride
was to abandon ship and stay away. But word of mouth from everyone I knew
who'd seen it (my grandchildren included) led me to walk the plank and lay
my booty on the line just to see Depp do Keith Richards. I am an aged Stones
fan.  Johnny D. has Mr. Richards' chops down. And for a while this and Geoffrey
Rush's, also over-the-top, Barboosa were enough fun to keep the film
interesting. But my eyes began to glaze over at about ninety minutes, the
umpteenth sword fight, and the innumerable howling moonlit skeletons. Arrg
and avast matey!I'll turn in me peg leg as I'm just too old for this kind of fun.

******
2 September 2003
9

This film is a lot of fun, with great (over)acting from Jonny Depp (in
his
most attractive role yet) and Geoffrey Rush. It is a fairly simple story
but
with everything you could want; plenty of swashbuckling, zombie pirates,
a
lovely heroine with lovely eyebrows, Gareth from The Office, and Jonny
Depp.Orlando Bloom still can't act and clearly really wants to be as cool as
Jonny
Depp, which he is not. And there is nothing cool about elves fighting the
enemies of Middle Earth with extreme sports, such as surfing down stairs
on
a shield. However, a film like this doesn't require much acting from the
hero - he just has to stand there and look good, which he does.The best pirate movie since A Muppet Treasure Island. 

******
2 September 2003
10

Bad accents in films are my all time number one gripe.  Depp's accent was
fautless and believable.  I never once whinced at anything he
said.Keira Knightley looked adorable as ever but her performance was at best
mediocre in her unchallenging role.Overall I thought this to be one of the best films I've seen all year.
What
I particularly liked was the use of language and scripts that played to a
level over most of the audiences heads.  Rarely have I seen a family film
so
packed with beatiful vocabulary - and the fact that the nauticul terms
used
were so accurate.

******
2 September 2003
9

My expectations was fairly high when I went into the cinema to see this
one.
I love Johnny Depp and he is one of the best actors Ive ever seen, so
this
movie was a failsafe just because of Mr. Depp. And just as I expected the
movie was AWESOME! Johnny Depp have never been better. Maybe in "Fear and
loathing in L.A" but otherwise he is born to be a pirate. He has the
coolest
appearing with his dreadlocks and black makeup and a sweet dialect that
fits
his role very well. Orlando Bloom is an extraordinary actor too but not
aswell as Johnny though. Together they make a hell of a team. Jack
Sparrow
as Depp's character is named is hillarious. He is really funny. One bad
thing about the humour is that more people then depp is supposed to be
funny. Too much humour is never good and since they are not funny enough
they could just be normal and leave all the funny lines to Johnny Depp.
My
rating on this one was 9/10. It was maximum entertainment!

******
2 September 2003
10

I loved this movie so much I demanded we went to the cinema to see it
again.
Mainly because I love Johnny Depp so much. But the movie itself was
spectacular, even though I am not too fond of pirate movies, this one is
an
exception. I could watch this again and again and again, all day. The
casting is great, I couldn't imagine the characters being played as anyone
else. Johnny Depp plays a wonderful Captain Jack Sparrow, Orlando Bloom
also
plays his character with great style. One of the things that struck me
were
the costumes, they had a great appeal to me, although they were quite
simple, I found I quite enjoyed studying them.
The film has a mix of comedy and action, the main comedy lines coming from
Johnny Depp. I found the storyline quite gripping and the action scenes
had
some wonderful effects.
Overall, it was a spectacular movie, well worth watching.


******
2 September 2003
7

Gave it a 7/10.It's a pretty nice movie. Nice CGFX' and the movie does seem to suck you
up
in it's atmosphere from minute one. A bit too long tho, they should've cut
30-45 minutes from it in my pretty humble opinion.Johhny Depp was GREAT tho, best thing of the whole movie. Without him I
probably would give it a 5.5/6 instead of a 7. Didn't expect him to do
this
well as pirate, but it fits him perfectly.I wouldn't call this a very "good" movie, but its really enjoyable. If you
are into abit of fantasy movies, you should watch this for sure.


******
2 September 2003
10

This is by far my favorite movie of all time. (Maybe except for the
LOTR
movies though). First of all, the casting was incredible! All the actors
did
great. Kiera Knightly played the perfect damsel in distress who really
knows
hoe to kick butt. Geoffrey Rush was the perfect villain. Johnny Depp is
hilarious as Captain Jack Sparrow. It is definitely his movie. However,
how
gorgeous can Orlando Bloom possibly get?! Oh, I could just melt! Sorry, if
you get me started, I may never stop. The plot was also great! Some people
say that it has holes, but there really aren't any. I am telling you to
get
off your fanny and see it NOW! I mean it! GO NOW!!!!


******
1 September 2003
10

It's not often that one leaves the theatre wanting to stay and watch it all
over again. PotC is one of those movies.Excellent cast. Johnny Depp makes one of the best, if not the best, pirates
ever seen on the screen (I'd throw him in the same boat as Dustin Hoffman's
"Hook"). Capt. Jack Sparrow is one of the most memorable characters in
recent years. Orlando Bloom was actually better at Will Turner than Legolas
(so far) in LotR. Keira Knightley was surprising. Being a very attractive
woman in a pirate film, one would expect her to be either a helpless bimbo
in distress or a sultry seductress. Nothing could be further from the truth
on both. She was proper, respectable, and played both a damsel and a fighter
at the same time. Geoffrey Rush makes for an excellent villain, one you just
can't help but like, even though you hate his guts (well, bones in this
case). The effects are superb, especially that of the fights in and out of the
moonlight (if you don't know what I'm talking about, you'll know when you
see it). The music, well, WOW. This is the best soundtrack since Gladiator
and possibly even better. Perfect mood setting.All in all, an excellent and fun film that's both enjoyable, full of action
and adventure, GREAT music, and can both make fun of itself yet still take
itself seriously. On this rare occasion, Cap'n Bruckheimer and his
scallywags get an A+.

******
1 September 2003
7

Pirates of the Caribbean is a well-made movie and is worth taking the time
to see. Its excellent story and wonderful selection of actors and actresses
has drawn in many people of all ages. What makes this movie so good is it's
never ceasing action, which was brilliantly choreographed. Its musical score
is quite good also. It might just seem that is the best movie ever made, or
that it can be shown anywhere to anyone. But it is obviously not the
greatest movie, nor can it be shown to whoever wants to watch it. Let me
remind you that this movie is PG-13. This is because of its crude humor and
intense fight scenes. This is why only people that are teens or older should
watch it, hence PG-13. Other than that it is an excellent movie which
deserves being watched more than once.

******
1 September 2003
10

I thought that the film was excellent better than I expected. There was a
lot of action and I hadn't expected it to be funny. Johnny Depp was very
funny and Orlando Bloom was excellent and handsome. Can't wait for it to
come out on DVD

******
1 September 2003
10

In case you're still wondering, I loved this movie!! It was great.All the acting is great, the visual effects are great, the whole damn
movie
is great!!!!!!!!Great, great, great. Well, I think I've got my point across.Go see this movie. Now.

******
1 September 2003
9

i had heard that this movie sucked from some friends, but they were wrong.
the story line was good and the special effects were great. i really
thought
the casting of this film was really good also. Depp plays the role of a
pirate exceptionally well and the casting of Orlando Bloom (the elf in
Lord
of the Rings) as a sword swinging, butt kicking, lover boy was also a
stroke
of genius. i also enjoyed the character of Elizabeth Swann in the film.
she
is a crafty and cunning women that will take charge and fight against
those
who would harm others ( i'm so tired of the weak and timid role that some
movies give to girls). all in all i gave this film an 8 for no other
reason
then the cool effects they did with the pirates on the black pearl.


******
1 September 2003
10

I hadn't really paid any attention to the trailers on television or the
previews in the theater. I saw them but it didn't click for me to say "O
yeah that movie looks awesome! Let me it see now" kind of a thing. My one
friend saw it with her family and said it was really good. I was really
surprised. I still didn't want to see it but I went anyway. Hey it was a
night out from my parents as any teenager would say. So it started, the
ship
arrived on the screen and as soon as it started I loved it!Throughout the whole movie, everyone in the  theater was cracking up and
totally glued to the screen. I know I was. I had to see it a second time
and
I am craving for more! I am buying it on DVD too when it comes out in
december. It was just a good movie that was funny cause of Johnny Depp and
the effects were awesome and the acting was great! It was something you
can
just sit down and enjoy...I suggest you too see it if you want to escape
from everyday life.

******
1 September 2003
10

I honestly went to see this movie for Orlando Bloom & Johnny Depp. I got a
lot more than I paid for. It was wonderful A+++. A movie I could watch
over
and over again. Johnny Depp brought Jack to life, and did an amazing job.
A
great movie for anyone. I would def push to go see it.


******
1 September 2003
10

This is the best movie I've seen all year.  Johnny Depp was so funny and
his
facial expressions were wonderful.  The storyline was great also.  Once
you
see it you'll want to see it again and again.  The whole cast was great.
I
loved it.

******
1 September 2003
9

Having only seen the film once I am not sure if what I'm about to ask is
on
the money or not, but I digress:In the scene when Rush and Depp are fighting just before Bloom is headed
to
the chest with Cortez's gold we see Depp prepare to toss the coin he
stole
from the chest to Bloom so that the curse may be lifted.  In a very swift
motion Depp slices into his own hand and grasps the coin before tossing
it
upwards to bloom and after Bloom drops both coins we clearly see a line
of
blood on each coin.  Are we to think in some way that Jack Sparrow and
Will
Turner are in fact related?  What could be the relation as earlier in the
film it is stated that Bootstrap Bill Turner had but one child?  Perhaps
in
the sequel we will see this mystery revealed?

******
31 August 2003
8

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL (2003)contain
spoilers (((Pirates are insane cool man! Get ready to be blown out of the sea man!
Johnny Depp plays the main character as the filthy, drunk, funny and rough
Jack Sparrow simply fantastic good. Sweet boy Orlando Bloom plays Will
Turner and beautiful Keira Knightley plays Miss Swann. The movie is
extremely nice watching whole the way! Here you get everything, walking the plank, evil and disgusting pirates,
idyllic landscapes, fine music and a lots of entertainment. The movie
switches from being very funny too totally serious excitement. Director Gore
Verbinski does a surprisingly good job behind the camera and producer
Bruckheimer does as always a fine piece of work. The movie is great watching
on every spot from everything too the newest and best special effects, but
the best thing without doubt is: Depp!! He is...stunning!! See this movie,
its a brutally good blockbuster!!
STARS: ***** 5/5 

******
31 August 2003
6

This acceptable example of the swashbuckle genre passes an enjoyable
afternoon.  However, only Johnny Depp's original interpretation as the
cynical pirate captain gave it any depth. Nothing else excited old the grey
cells.Nice effects, including a convincing set of ghostly pirates.I should have liked to have seen Knightley's character, for the sake of
humour,  a bit more caricatured, more  girlishly excited about pirates,
(edging towards Miranda Richardson's Queen Elizabeth in Blackadder) which
would have made her a better foil to Depp.
And Jack's new crew should have been allowed to get  more into their
characters, not dragged in from the actors' bank with ten minutes
rehearsal.

******
31 August 2003
10

In my subjective opinion, the best action-adventure-pseudo-historical
movie
since Kevin Costner's 'Robin Hood, The Prince of Thieves'. There are
numerous similarities between them: both treat historical truth rather
loosely, both are packed with humour and both are thrilling to watch. Even
though everyone knows how the story will end.Johnny Depp is excellent in this movie and steals (commandeer, nautical
term!)the show. Orlando Bloom is so handsome it hurts and - he can act.
Maybe he still has bits and pieces of that cool, elvish charm, but he sure
looks better non-blonde. Keira Knightley prooves that not every girl in a
pirate movie should scream and run around with no purpose (save the
purpose
of falling in the arms of a leading male). Geoffrey Rush is demonic but
one
can feel pity for him. And the monkey Jack is the best.
Really.One may nag, that the plot is a bit conventional, but that's the way it
is;
it doesn't spoil the fun. The sea battles are - on the other hand -
totally
unconventional. Shooting cannon with forks and knives aspire to one of my
favourite scenes... Of all movies, altogether.Not to mention a corset scene... All corset scenes, actually. It may be a
little far fetched, but does it not remind You of a scene from the
'Titanic'? And 'Gone with The Wind'? Having in mind that the script came
from the men who gave us 'Shreck', I am not surprised at
all.

******
31 August 2003
10

This was by far, the best movie I've seen all summer. The storyline is
well
thought out and very entertaining. However, what makes this movie so
amazing,
is Johnny Depp. He absolutely stole the show. The way he spoke, the way he
moved, and all of his funny comments just made the film that much more
enjoyable. I recommend this movie to everyone- except children. I would
expect
that young children (or anyone below the age of 13) would end up having
nightmares for a few nights. But for anyone over the age of 13, you can
handle
it. I would never call this movie a horror, it's just that it does have
some
creepy
scenes. 9.5 out of 10, it really is that good.

******
30 August 2003
10

I'm usually a romantic comedy fan, and I heard a lot about 'Pirates' from
friends, but I really wasn't expecting much from this movie.  When I left
the theater, I knew that 'Pirates' is going to be a personal top 10 movie! 
I give this movie 10/10 stars and I highly recommend it to anyone who likes
any genre.

******
30 August 2003
10

In my opinion this movie was perfect.  It was extremely entertaining,
I've
seen it 9 times in the cinema and still want to go back.  It can't be
said
enough how incredibly Johnny Depp portrayed Capt. Jack Sparrow.  The
entire
cast was wonderful, even the monkey had me laughing.  I loved the sword
fights, the costumes, and the plot(yes there was one.)  Everyone I have
dragged with me has loved it as well.  Go and see it.

******
30 August 2003
10

I loved this movie because it was one of those movies where you can't just
watch a little bit, if you start it, you have to finish it. I would
recommend it to anyone, except for little kids; it does have frightening
scenes in it. I really liked the special effects, how the people changed
from `human' to "skeleton".  I like they used some bigger-named actors in
it. I have already seen it 5 times! I'm a little bit crazy!You could tell all of the characters personalities very well, including
Captain jack Sparrow, played by Johnny Depp. I liked how you almost could
read the characters mind, but they would turn around and do something
totally un-expected. It was very well directed.
Like in most movies these days, there if some type of love connection.
It's
the feeling of you-will-she-pick kind of anticipation. To me, and probably
most people who saw the movie thought it was kind of obvious who she would
of picked, but the movie was great all the same.
I have nothing to say about this spectacular movie that is negative,
except
that I didn't like Orlando Bloom's hair! I love this movie, and I would
recommend it to anyone.


******
30 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is excellent
when you're grading for entertainment, not quite so much if you're
grading for artistic content- some feel that the plot is too
complicated, the movie is too long, or that the writing is bad. But
this movie doesn't make any claims at being a great work of art. It's
a movie for fun. The amount of eyeliner on Johnny Depp should
have told you that.Speaking of Johnny Depp, his performance as Captain Jack
Sparrow is excellent and ever so swishy, and while the plot doesn't
make perfect sense, it showcases Captain Jack in all his
glory.This is entertainment that's actually entertaining, and besides, it's
a pirate movie. An attempt at artistic glory would just distract from
everything good about that.

******
30 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was great! Johnny Depp's animated acting was
perfect for his role. The Disney ride was one of my favorites as a child
and
now this movie is a favorite of mine as an adult. It's also a great family
film. I hope the rest of the films coming out that are based on the Disney
rides are just as good. 

******
29 August 2003
10

The Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is without a
doubt the best movie of the summer.  I emmencley enjoyed watching this
film
the 6 times I went to see it. Even though I went to see this movie an
insane
amount, it never got old nor did I enjoy it less than the time before.
The
only other movie that might(and probably will) beat this film will be
Lord
of the Rings: The Return of the King, which, coincidentally, also stars
the
young, very talented and future major star Orlando Bloom. That sexy star
has
a very very bright future, esspcially when he co-stars with phenomonal
actors like Johnny Depp, Geoffry Rush, Vigo Mortenson, Liv Tyler, Eligha
Woods, Josh Hartnett, and so on and so forth.  Anyways getting back to
Pirates, This movie features a wonderful acting job from Johnny Depp and
Geoffry Rush.  They both were cast wonderfully for the parts that needed
to
be played.  I think we'll be seeing a lot more of Johnny Depp, Orlando
Bloom, and well we already see a lot of Geoffry Rush. Peace to all my
homies
on the S Island!!! I love you Orlando!!!

******
29 August 2003
10

Johnny Depp is hilarious, an Oscar worthy performance, this is seriously
one
of the greatest movies I've ever seen.  It has something for everyone:
Action/Adventure, Humor (in spades), Romance, Horror (sort of).  I take
the
fact that its so low on this list as based on the fact that its new and
needs time to climb.  See this movie again and again and again and again
and
again and again and again, it is that good!

******
28 August 2003
10

This film is just a bit of fun and its the kind of fun that doesnt resort
to
complete stupidity like the POLICE ACADEMY series. I was laughing every 5
minutes and I saw Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp in a whole new acting
light....Orlando (Will Turner) really expresses himself in this movie rather than
the
flat character Legolas in Lord of the Rings. Despite that, Johnny Depp
steals the show hands down. Playing the completely insane pirate, Jack
Sparrow, he pulls off the role very well. That first fight scene between
the
two was fantastic...Of course I cant dismiss Geoffrey Rush. Im not a big fan of his (Ive only
see him in LES MISERABLES and thats only because yummy Liam neeson is in
it). I loved his character Barboosa though....If you want a serious film, dont bother. If you want a laugh, than what
are
you waiting GO SEE NOW!!!H xxxxxx 

******
28 August 2003
10

Pirates of The Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl features
outstanding sword fights, intense graphics-special effects, and
many well-portrayed characters. 'X' marks the spot. Action-packed
and full of adventure, this film lacks not in action, nor in comedy,
and keeps you asking for more until the very end. Certainly a
treasure for a moviegoer looking for adventure, comedy and a little
romance. A family film, which takes you back to when you rode the
title inspiration, the ride in Disney World/Disneyland, for the very
first time. Bound to keep your eyes, it's 2 hours you wont
waste!

******
27 August 2003
10

See the thing about Pirates is.....1) There's no Mutating ooze
2) There's no time travelling, killer robots
..... But that isn't a problem, not for Brukheimer and Verbinski, oh no,
buddy!!!It's something a bit special, this.
Even if you don't really think you're going to enjoy seeing a monsterous
crew torment townships and buxom beauties, you will!Depp seems to be getting better and better as the years go on. you could
put
him in the crappiest crap-fest there ever was and he'd come out smelling
of
Rum!He's exactly as a Pirate should be. He's got the swagger and the charm of
a
million Errol Flynn's. Every of his lines is Laugh out
loud.The Young Brit's are also very good, but it ain't their
movie.
It belongs to Sparrow and Barbosa.You'll love it. I did.... so much so, I'm going to see it again next
week.yarrrgh!

******
27 August 2003
8

This was an excellent movie. Johnny Depp, cast as Captain Jack Sparrow,
does
a wonderful job, and makes the movie what it is. Ignore the previews,
which
may be misleading, and see the movie anyway. Everyone loves it. Go see
it!

******
27 August 2003
10

This movie is witty, fun, exciting, funny, pleasurable and amusing all
rolled into one neat package.  It is truly difficult to leave the theatre
after watching this movie and be in a bad mood.  From the witty reparte
between the hero, anti-hero, heroine and villain to swordmaster advisor
Bob
Anderson's swordplay choreography, it allows all ages to enjoy this fun
story.  The cast works very well together, the characters very
three-dimensional.  The story is quite fun.  Very highly recommended!!  A
definite must see and must own!

******
27 August 2003
10

Brilliant Johnny Depp, with lots of Mascara and humor.
Laughing till it's hurts. And the Pirate-genre was never
dead.
You don't feel the length, cause you have lots to see (effects).
But I'm sorry to say, it's a women movie !

******
27 August 2003
10

it was like playing monkey island all over again, only better! the movie
got
style, charm, wit, lots of humor, very well thought-through and
intelligent
storyline, action and a bit of scary elements (but not too much). it even
got romance. it has to because pirates are romantic. so get away from the
computer and go to the theatre to see the movie. i was very lucky to see
it
at a sneak preview. i will definitely see it again once it is officially
released in germany.

******
27 August 2003
10

I loved it. It is now my favourite movie. It is exellent. I advise
everyone
who hasn't seen it, to go see it. Heck, even if u did already see it, go
see
it again. Johnny Depp has never been funnier. Now he's gonna be in the
Willy
Wonka and the Chocolate Factory remake. He will be Willy Wonka. Best Movie
Ever!!!!

******
26 August 2003
8

The weird Depp Pirate performance seemed like another typical summer
bomb.
But after reading so many good reviews I had to see it and I was totally
surprised. The movie is nothing like the stupid preview. The story is
fast
paced, very funny, and also touching. The acting is solid all round. And
Depp's acting fits in perfectly and uniquely with the whole movie.


******
26 August 2003
10

Don't be fooled by the fact that this is a Disney film rated 12A - this
film
is just as much fun for adults. I'm not normally into films like this, but
I
loved Pirates Of The Caribbean. Johnny Depp is absolutely fantastic - his
character 'Captain John Sparrow' is a screen masterpiece. Great first
scene
where you see him standing on top of a mast, and you imagine that it's
some
big pirate ship and then the camera pans out and it's a tiny little rowing
boat with a small sail that is sinking.  Not an intellectually demanding
film, but 2 hours of sheer fun and escapism.

******
25 August 2003
10

Johnny Depp, I'm male and I love you. Yes, this is how great he is as
Captain Jack Sparrow in this Disney adaptation of a Disneyland
ride.The first time I saw this film was on a bootleg copy in Thailand so it
wasn't the best experience, what with missing half the words to fuzziness
and general rubbishy quality. What I saw though made me realise that this
was one film I couldn't miss.When I got back to Bangkok (still in Thailand) I went to a Thai cinema to go
see it which was great because the seats were leather recliners and you got
food delivered to you! My sister and I settled down and prepared ourselves
for the next 140 minutes of swashbuckling fun.In my eyes this is Johnny's film. Without it Pirates of the Carribean is
just another Summer moneymaker, with him it becomes a classic. Everything
about his character is pure entertainment, from his funky looks to his
drunken stagger.Speaking about his funky looks, I'm so getting dreadlocks when I'm older. I
reckon with a dab of eyeliner, a bandana and a pirate's hat I'll be quite
close to Jack Sparrow.Anyway, I'm talking rubbish now so just go see this great
film.

******
25 August 2003
10

HOW can peeple not like this film?????? this is without a doubt the best
film this year. i did admitedly go 2 see it cos of Orlando Bloom (who did
suberbly as Will Turner) but CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) did better
than i thought was possible. the role was MADE for him, he just ROX.
everyone else was great as well and it has everything u cud want!! action,
comedy, sword fights etc. i have only seen it once but i will see it
again!!
and again!! and again!! cos i dont think i cud ever get bored of it. if u
havent seen it yet i feel only sympathy. 

******
25 August 2003
10

WOW!!! This is one of the best movies Ive ever seen if not the best.  The
old captain(im blanking on his name but the person who played him was
Jhonny
Depp)  wants to get revenge on the captain that marooned him on an island
long,long ago.  So he teams up with another guy (again im blanking but
orlando bloom played him) and chases after the Black pearl.
Take my word for it stop reading this review and go see it before it is
out
of theaters.  And if you dont see it in theaters BUY IT!! because you
will
want to see it more than once. There are no  bad things to say about this
movie.

******
25 August 2003
10

This movie was fantastic! I highly recommend it. I went in not knowing
what
it was about, and I came out totally awed. Johnny Depp gives a wonderful
performance and leaves you wanting more. This is definitely the treasure
of
the summer.Pirates was full of action and great comedy jokes/actions. Johnny Depp
appears to steal the show, but the other three main cast members (Geoffrey
Rush, Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightley) did fanastic as well. If you
haven't seen it already, I suggest you go now!!

******
25 August 2003
10

i just can't say enough about how good this movie
is!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!honestly,it
is one of the best movies i have ever seen!the visual effects are
absolutely
stunning,there is tons of action and suspense is added in too.100 percent
amazing!this is a movie you should definitely go see!!!!!!!

******
24 August 2003
8
Pirates of the Caribbean is with difference the film of the summer,it is
very different like the others and when I watch it,sometimes I think that I
watch an old film for example an Errol's one.I am very happy for it success because pirates film are very entertain but I
think that the secret of the hit is the reinvention of the genre and this
good,because other films like Cutthroat Island are very classic and pirates
of the Caribbean carries the horror zombies to a Pirates film and this
remake the stories which are out of time.I hope that Disney don't make a sequel or prequel because it could destroy
the original.Pirates of the Caribbean:Very Good film.

******
24 August 2003
9

Pirates was a fun summer film, not deep in the sense of story line and
plot
however very enjoyable. The film was well cast and the actors appeared to
be
having fun "playing pirate". Not an Academy Award winning film, but one I
plan to see at least one more time before it goes away. My favorite actor
in
this film was Orlando Bloom because he provides us with a nice PG-13
version
of "eye candy". My favorite character in the film is Johnny Depp's
Captain
Jack Sparrow. I very much enjoyed the score as well. Lots of fun... Lots
and
LOTS of FUN!! 

******
24 August 2003
9

Disney needed a winner and they got it with Pirates.  It was an exciting
movie and Johnny Depp is fabulous, as usual.  I'm also amazed at the
range
of Orlando Bloom.  Being a fan of the Lord of the Rings movies, it took
me a
few minutes to get used to him being someone besides an
Elf.The movie progressed quickly, except for the "stranded on the island"
scene,
and I rather enjoyed picking out the similarities between the movie and
the
theme park attraction - there were several.A must-see for ALMOST all ages.  Some of the skeleton scenes may be a bit
much for small children.  They even startled me at first.All-in-all, a very enjoyable feature.

******
23 August 2003
7

This pirate movie is,although pretty good,not even close to the pirate
classic "The Crimson Pirate" with Burt Lancaster and Nick
Cravat.
There is even a scene in PotC that is completely ripped off from that
classic,the scene in which Captain Jack(Johnny Depp)and his "mate" Turner
escape from the soldiers by walking under water in a boat.Still,it makes for a pretty good movie with some fine effects and fights.
7/10PS:Don't go away right after the movie has ended,but see the entire credits
for a surprise at the end!

******
23 August 2003
8

This movie should get an oscar for the best entertainment value. It was fun,
it was funny, it was clever and it had a lot of action. It had a few minor
"bugs" in it, but when you're enjoying a movie this well, you barely notice
them. As always Depp was perfect in his role, it was almost like he was born
for that role, or the role was specifically written for him. The other
actors were also great in their roles. I gave it a 9 out of 10 because I
only give 10/10 to really original or somehow special films. But if you want
a movie that is very enjoyable, go see this one.

******
23 August 2003
9

Fabled as being the fastest and most powerful ship on the seaboard, "The
Black Pearl" reigns terror on all ships it encounters.  With its legendary
Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) and his crew of scoundrels damned to scour
the world with the gold of Cortes, accursed gold, which, if possessed leaves
one as a mere shadow of a human; a skeleton, invulnerable, yet unable to
enjoy the benefits of humanity, even when in human form.  It is this quest
that brings them to a mooring town in the Caribbean.  
Elizabeth Swann (Knightley) the young governess who possesses the final gold
piece, which holds the power to restore the pirates of The Black Pearl to
their former human selves, is torn between love with a blacksmith , William
Turner (Bloom), whom she had rescued as a child, and Norrington (Davenport),
a Commodore, and friend to Swann's father, Governor Weatherby Swann. Meanwhile, Jack Sparrow (Depp), a seemingly inept (and somewhat gay) pirate,
is captured and prisoned.The plot thickens when the governess (and the coin) are seized, and brought
to the resident island of the pirates; an island which can only be found if
you have been their before.Sparrow and  Turner league with one another to save the damsel and defeat
the pirates of the Caribbean...Brilliance in itself.  Johnny Depp recovers from his recent slump and comes
out with an Oscar worthy performance of the renowned, yet inept pirate Jack
Sparrow.  He retains a somewhat drunken stupor throughout the film, yet
still is able to fully form a complex character.  Bloom too was good; He far outdoes his previous role of Legolas Greenleaf,
in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.  His usual somewhat boring demeanor in
films is actually erased from his role and actually allows me to respect the
man.Geoffrey Rush was a disappointment though.  Since his Oscar winning
performance in "Shine" he has not really pulled off a good role, sadly
enough.  This was just another confirmation of this  slump... Hopefully soon
he will yet again find his niche.Other than this, all the other actors played exceptionally well, and
provided a good 143 min of film.I definitely recommend this film to anyone, as this is not only a
swashbuckling film, but a comedy, romance, and to some horrific...  Though
the skeletons were really quite humorous, and the monkey remained cute...
Anyways, four fingers and a stub out of five.

******
22 August 2003
8

Once in a while the trailer makes the movie seem worse than it really is.
This is one of those occasions. Definitely a refreshing movie for a change.
There was one thing though throughout the movie that bothered me : does
Depp's acting really have to rely on makeup like it did here and in
Scissorhands?

******
22 August 2003
10
This film is a sword-swinging good time. I have personally never really been a Johnny Depp fan but he was
amazing in "Pirates of the Caribbean." His 'swishy swashbuckler' will
have you laughing--and cheering--out loud.This is a movie that has everything: Action, Humor, Horror, Romance,
Adventure. Geoffery Rush gives an amazing performance, the special
effects are stellar, the music is perfect, the fight scenes are
exciting and Keira Knightley is HOT HOT HOT. I can't say enough good
things about this film. It's a great deal of fun and it comes highly
recommended.Treat yourself: Buy this movie, then watch it again and again!

******
22 August 2003
10

I laughed my Butt off. If you ever need a pick up this movie is it. I rank
this right up there with "Whole 9 Yards". I really loved the references to
the actual ride. I want to see this so many times. I will definitly buy
the
DVD as soon as it is released. Go see it!

******
21 August 2003
10

Wow, went to see this movie, and afterwards I was in a very piratey mood.
This movie is a stunning example of an Indiana Jones-like adventure movie.
It has action, humor, sexy ladies and a fun plot to boot.The actors play their parts very well, with Mr Depp putting on a really fine
performance. Orlando Bloom also does very well, and I hope to see him in
more movies soon.It seems that the costumes and flags are also historically accurate, or so a
UK army buddy told me.Anyways, go see it, it's fun. Bring yer girlfriend and yer gold, and ye'll
have a good time!

******
21 August 2003
9

For anyone and everyone that sees Johnny Depp give his amazing performance
as Captain Jack Sparrow, one thing is clear: Johnny Depp deserves gold
come
awards season.  His character's impact on the film is so great that it
would
have been a completely different movie without him.

******
21 August 2003
10

I thought that Pirates of the Caribbean was brilliant. Me and my friends
never planned to watch that but are all thoroughly glad that we did.
Orlando
Bloom looks gorgeous as Will Turner and Johnny Depp is brilliant as Jack
Sparrow. He really makes the film with all his drunken, sarcastic
comments!

******
21 August 2003
10

Exelent movie with a little bit of everything;romance,comedy,thrills...
If I had to watch one movie for the rest of my life Pirates of the
Caribbean would totally be it. I cant wait for it to come out on
video.ABSOLUTELY LOVED IT!!!!!

******
21 August 2003
10
This movie was incredibly impressive and truthfully I fully expected a
similar outcome since the teaser trailer!I wish to begin by thanking all involved in creating this wondrous movie
that really blew me out of the water!  The story was drenched in such
detail, which was explained thoroughly by dialogue that actually
interested
me all the way through the film!  The acting was superb at its least and
delivered the tale so well I could believe that these characters and story
were actually real.  Starting with my favorite actor, Johnny Depp.  In
every
movie, no matter how horribly rated by critics, he was always commended on
his performance!  This one, he throws his audience another character out
of
his vast onsemble...and I cannot get over how cool Jack Sparrow turned out
to be!  He had the most tasteful lines, reactions, and whatever else I
can't
think of right now for the comic relief.  Then, the youthful, but talented
Orlando Bloom brought the role of Will Turner to life just as he did
Legolas
in "The Lord of the Rings," acting as the hero and playing well with
Johnny
Depp's insane, Capt. Jack Sparrow!  I wish I could expand on the inspiring
acting abilities of Keira Knightly and Geoffrey Rush as well as others in
this amazing swashbuckling pirate film because everyone involved made this
summer blockbuster possible!  I'm positive that missing just one person
from
the crew or cast or anyone who worked, even the less valued jobs on this
hit
would not mold it into the astounding, not to mention critically
acclaimed,
and appreciated by audiences everywhere project that it has truly become!Great Job, and I am eagerly awaiting for the DVD experience, and a
possible sequel!

******
20 August 2003
8

Before the film came out, I was looking forward to it purely as a fantasy
adventure, where I could switch off for a couple of hours and just
enjoy.There is always a danger with a film such as this, which is heavily hyped
as
a great film, that it won't live up to that billing. Lets face it, if it
isn't great, you'll be disappointed. So when a highly regarded UK critic
called this one of the worst films of the year, I was somewhat reassured.
The balance had been restored!And I'm glad to say that this was a really enjoyable night out. There is
no
way that you can take the subject matter seriously (just watch the
trailers), so accept it for what it is.... a very well made (though
slightly
overlong) Saturday Matinee film. Gruesome baddies, a wisecracking hero and
two innocents that stumble into the story and end up saving the
day.I thought all of the main players did a fine job. No-one will win an
acting
Oscar for it, but they will draw in the crowds. Go see!

******
20 August 2003
10

I've seen this movie twice now, and have to admit the first time i went to
see it, it was because Orlando Bloom was in it.  But I went the second
time
because i enjoyed it so much.  The actors all fitted their roles perfectly
and it's great to see a cast containing lots of Brits.  Every
actor/actress
fitted there part superbly; Geoffry Rush plays your traditional pirate
with
lots of energy and Orlando Bloom makes the ladies swoon over him as the
young Will Turner.  Of course for the men there's the beautiful Keira
Knightly.  The crew of the Black Pearl all put 100% into their roles,
especially Mackenzie Crook, and gave the audience the creeps. But it was
Johnny Depp who stole the show as Jack Sparrow, he didn't have to say
anything, just his body language and facial expressions could steal a
scene.
His English accent may not be totally accurate but it doesn't matter
because it fitted his character perfectly.  He successfully plays the
lovable rogue, because by the end of the film everyone has, well, fallen
in
love with him.  The film may be long at over two hours, but you never get
bored because there is always something going on.  Lots of swashbuckling
sword fights and great special affects make this a must for any fans of
action-adventure movies.  And of course, girls if you don't fancy all that
action and fighting theres always Orlando Bloom!

******
19 August 2003
10

the fact of Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp together already enough to go
see
this movie, though I didn't expect it to be this good! not once during the
film (two and a half houres) I was even thinking oooh when's the end!
Orlando is the brave cute nice guy, and always fun to watch. but it's
Johnny
Depp who steals the show. even though he was dressed awfully (like a real
stinky pirate) with golden teeth and two plaits in his beard and walking
around like a some drunk dude, he still has this magical glamour around
him.
he still looks so damn handsome when he's putting on his (black bad teeth)
smile. and of course Geoffrey Rush as the perfect evil man. further the
special effects are pretty well done. the fight between Depp and Rush in
the
cave with the moonlight is really cool. I think that because of the wrong
advertising a lot of people have got the wrong impression of this movie.
they think it's is some sort of bad freaky horror film, but in fact it's
an
adventure with first-rate humour.

******
19 August 2003
10

MY GOD THAT MOVIE IS GREAT!! not just Because Johnny Depp is in it, even
if
it was without JD it was still a GREAT movie, its beautiful made, and
very
funny:P:P
But JD steals the show, i hope he gets an award for his
work:):):)xxxx M8ld
**Forget'bout it**


******
19 August 2003
10
this movie has it all! a simple love story, great action, kool ships and
intriguing characters. Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp (with
gold teeth, a great accent, and a tan) i have been waiting for a great
adventure movie for a long time and this was it! if you have seen it see
it
again if you have not seen it (go see it!) it is beyond words!
movierat7

******
19 August 2003
7

That this made the IMDB Top250 i think says more about the other films
this
summer than this one... i expect it will drop out after a while; people
are
so relieved to see something worth their 5 pounds/bucks/whatever they go a
little nuts over this one ;)very minor spoilers aheadJohny Depp *is* great and the reason i went, sadly Bloom appears to be not
a
great actor (but maybe it's the script not giving him much else to do) and
nor is Knightley (her big line, about corsets, fell flat where i was).
There's lots to like though, some quirky dialogue, sometimes much funnier
than expected (only when delivered by Depp though, reading the quotes on
IMDB well... i guess Depp deserves even more credit for this
film).Summary: long film felt an hour, so can't be bad. Would have loved some
more
marooned-island-drink and less moonlight-skeleton-fight, and a more
memorable ending... it wasn't very memorable generally really, all i can
think of now (same day) is two turtles strapped together. But it felt good
and made me + nippers laugh, so 7 or 8 out of 10. (I wonder how good this
*could* have been with a better *story*! It's not very original to ask for
more plot and less special effects, sorry).

******
18 August 2003
10

A man named Walt Disney once proclaimed that you have to tell a story, or
you don't have a movie.  It is WONDERFUL it see the credit "Based on Walt
Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean" scroll by.  I have seen this movie 5
times now.  It is NOT too long, as some reviewers have said.  The story is
well constructed.  The casting is superb.  The locations are amazing.  There
is a rumor that some of the locations used were used for `20,000 Leagues
Under The Sea'.  If true, maybe it is the waters, and more movies ought to
be shot there.  GO SEE IT!!  

******
18 August 2003
7

not totally...let down a little, of course I don't know what I expected of
anything associated with Disney. I agree with what another commenter
said...Johnny Depp saved this film. I enjoyed it because I enjoyed watching
him, and not because he is eye candy (which he is...have you seen him on the
cover of GQ?? *Sizzle*) but because he was just fun to watch. He really got
into the roll and played it to it's fullest. Bravo for Johnny Depp!! *** our
of ***** for the film in general.

******
18 August 2003
10

When I went to go & see this film I didn't think it would be that good
because I wasn't into that pirate sort of thing but when I did it had a
good
strong storyline and it was really funny. It wasn't too serious or
complicated so it was good for my sort of age (teenagers) to just go and
have fun. It had the action which kept you on the edge of your seat and
they
funny one-liners! It's a great film to go and see with friends or family
because it has something for everyone. It had a typical happy ending but
many twists during the film!


******
18 August 2003
10

I am a longtime pirate fan and amateur pirate scholar.  I went into this
film expecting a
great deal, and I got it all and more.  Outstanding performances from
everyone,
beautiful special effects, excellent direction, and not-too-visible
Bruckheimer.  The only
issues I had were as follows:1. Keira Knightly is too...modern-looking, I suppose.  She didn't sit
quite
right with me
in this role.  I would have cast someone who looks less like every other
hip
young thing.
I would have liked someone a little more unusual or remarkable; less
cookie-cutter 90's
starlet.  She did a decent job, however.2. The music, while decent, was not up to snuff with the rest of the film.
At first they
had Alan Silvestri, then Hans Zimmer, and somehow ended up with Klaus
Badelt, who's
not a feature composer at all.  He does fill-in music, and it sort of
showed.  I would have
preferred a riotous Zimmer theme like we had in MTI, or maybe even a
Goldsmith.
Again, this is a very very minor point that I'm not going to quibble over.
My vote is 10/
10Those of us who played the Monkey Island series waited so long to see a
decent pirate
flick.  The much-maligned Cutthroat Island had the swash, and Muppet
Treasure Island
had the charm, but not until Curse of the Black Pearl have these
ingredients
been
combined properly.  No longer will the spat-upon swashbuckling genre be
relegated to
cheap parody and jokes about Errol Flynn.  Bloom was a perfect Guybrush,
Rush a
gorgeous LeChuck, Knightly a fair Elaine, and Depp is (as always) without
compare.I will be spending more of my hard-earned money to see this at least once
again.  Well
done, Hollywood!  Now let's see what you can do with Peter
Pan.

******
18 August 2003
8

I enjoyed the ride so thought the film should get an equal chance to
impress, and it did!
The basic story centres around the Black Pearl and it's crew,captained by
Barbossa brilliantly played out by Geoffrey Rush, searching the world for
certain gold medallions and a sacrifice to bring them back to the land of
the living but with Sparrow, that's Captain Jack Sparrow accompanied on
this
adventure by Orlando Bloom , it is not going to be that
easy.
The casting was a breath of fresh air using talented actors that might not
be well known to some film goers who played the deadpan humour perfectly,
an
english thing, and you had no feeling that they were out to upstage each
other, an american thing, and was impressed at how they all seemed to
relish
their parts.
The effects are superb, especially the seamless swapping from walking dead
to salty sea dog scenes. ILM never fail to get it right, or are they
real???
The only thing I couldn't quite get to grips with was Johnny Depps'
accent,
it was border line Tommy Cooper, an english thing, and gave the impression
he was drunk throughout the movie, a pirate thing(?), however, he played
the
part with such an off the wall air that he did enough to impress. I would
have liked to have seen a few more 'real' pirate scenes given their
apparent
notoriety.
I recommend this film for high sea adventure and subtle humour and some
good
old fashioned sword play without a lazer in sight!
One word though, for those who leave before the credits end, never
understood why, there is a final scene that is amusing and possibly leaves
a
2nd film in the pipeline.

******
18 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is exellent. It can be described as funny,
adventurious, romantic, and... and im stretching it a bit here,
scaryJohnny Depp is fantastic in his role as the camp pirate captin who can
pull
anything off. Johnny is very funny in his role, and holds great screen
presence. Orlando Bloom carried off his role well, he is good in it,
although he doesnt exell to the extent that Depp does. Kiera Knightly is
also good in her role, very good even. She plays the good hearted english
aristrocat well, and has some funny lines that she delivers dead pan.All in all, this film is well worth seeing, and out of the films I have
saw
this year (American Pie 3, T3, Matrix 2, Deep Blue, and so on...) this was
the best by far.5/5 stars

******
18 August 2003
10

This movie is incredible!!  Where else can you find incredible sword
fighting, a great plot, plenty of non-stop action, and the sexiest pirate
on
the planet?  Pirates of the Caribbean is where it's at!!  Boy, would I
love
to be Jack Sparrow's "First Mate"!!

******
18 August 2003
10

Johnny Depp proves himself againPirates of the Caribbean is one of the most well-done, cleverly-executed
films I have seen in a long time. The first of Disney's movies to be rated
PG-13, it entails swordfights, curses, skeletons, theft, and a drunken
party
on a deserted island.  The word `rape' is mentioned once, though not quite
audibly enough to be heard if you're not listening for it.While I admit, Orlando Bloom's (Lord of the Rings, Black Hawk Down)
character is a lot wishy-washy, (through no fault of his own), one has to
keep in mind that this is a Disney film, and he carried himself well.
Rugged blacksmith Will Turner is a brave, romantic hero, who proves
himself
willing to die for the woman he loves, despite the fact that she is
promised
to another man.  You almost don't notice how common his character actually
is in Disney films.Elizabeth Swann, adeptly played by Kiera Knightley (Bend it like Beckham,
Star Wars, Episode I), is one of those rare `damsels in distress' to
actually put her brain to good use.  Elizabeth (who bears a striking
resemblance to Winona Ryder) is well versed in naval jargon, and at one
point even makes the commands in a pirate attack on the ship she is on.Geoffry Rush (Finding Nemo, Shine) portrays the fearsome captain Barbossa,
of the cursed Black Pearl.  He, his monkey, and his curious affection for
apples, commands respect from anyone who dares to cross him, including the
lovely Elizabeth Swann.  Surprisingly intelligent, Barbossa finds
loopholes
in every contract, (not unlike a modern-day lawyer) and can be trusted to
not be trustworthy, as so eloquently put by his arch-rival, captain Jack
Sparrow.Johnny Depp, (Blow, Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, Edward Scissorhands),
however, who has again and again proven his genius to worldwide audiences,
has done it again. Captain Jack Sparrow absolutely made this movie. I
can't
help but feel that without Depp, the flick wouldn't have carried nearly
the
same weight. Given only a minimal script, Depp was told to create Captain
Jack as he saw fit, and he has utterly outdone himself. Modeled after the
Rolling Stones' Keith Richards, captain Jack Sparrow completely dominates
the entire film.  Every word he speaks is insightful, accurate, and
absolutely hilarious.  And, as with Orlando Bloom, his looks certainly
don't
hurt.One must of course take into account, more than just the actors.  Behind
every outstanding movie, there lies an equally outstanding crew.  As one
example, I direct you to producer Jerry Bruckheimer (Pearl Harbour, Black
Hawk Down, Enemy of the State). Also we should applaud score composer
Klaus
Badelt (Pearl Harbor, additional music for Gladiator), director Gore
Verbinski (The Ring, The Ring 2), Depp's stunt double, Tony Angelotti
(Mask
of Zorro, doubling for Antonio Banderas), Screenwriter Ted Elliott (Shrek,
Mask of Zorro), and makeup artist David DeLeon (Star Trek: Nemesis).
Judging by the pounds of eyeliner Depp sports, while still looking
amazing,
DeLeon is a talented makeup artist, as anyone who has seen Nemesis will
vouch for.This film is a must-see.  It was funny, exciting, romantic, mysterious,
suspenseful, and many other genres all at once. Guaranteed to suit
anyone's
tastes. Kudos.

******
18 August 2003
7
The film was about 2 hours and 20 minutes, which is getting rarer to
see these days with all the arguing between studios and directors about
which cut of films we see in theaters. The movie wisely does not ever
take itself seriously, as pirate movies have been done many times
before far better. The granddaddy of them all is The Sea Hawk, 1940,
with Errol Flynn; there are subtle tips of the hat to this film in
Pirates Of The Caribbean, such as the "sea monkey." The Crimson Pirate,
1952, with Burt Lancaster is a close second; there is a real nice ode
to Burt Lancaster & Nick Cravat in this film. Tyrone Power in The Black
Swan, 1942, is also very good. There have been very few pirate movies
made in the last 20 years and those that have been made, well... which
may be why audiences are welcoming this film so well this summer.
Johnny Depp doesn't hurt either to get the targeted demographic into
theaters. Orlando Bloom doesn't have a lot to do, playing second
fiddle. Geoffrey Rush is almost choking on all that scenery he chews
on. Jonathan Pryce plays his part appropriately as the really important
person, who is an easily duped oaf. Keira Knightly is ravishing as the
girl that needs ravishing. The funny inside joke about the corset scene
is that she is extremely rail thin; I would be willing to wager the
costumers had to construct a corset that had to appear to be pulled
tight around her as none probably existed in real life. I thought the
plot about the curse was pretty lame, but it was consistent with the
overall preposterousness of the goings-on. It also served as an excuse
to provide the real neat special effects, which are obligatory in any
"A" budget film these days. The soundtrack contains a jolly good
rousing score, which could rival the best of Erich Wolfgang Korngold. I
suppose it's asking too much, but I would have loved to see more odes
to the pirate movies of yesterday, such as those I mentioned above. For
those of you that don't know what I'm referring to, see the above
mentioned films. *** of 4 stars.

******
17 August 2003
8

A lusty loud and funny pirate tale.  Will Turner, played by Orlando Bloom,
is an unlikely ally of Jack Sparrow, played by Johnny Depp.  He is so funny
with his loose antics, and wild scary appearance.  They battle together
against the most treacherous pirates led by Captain Barbossa, in order to
save the lovely Elizabeth, played by Keira Knightley, the love of Will's
life.  They recover the lost treasure that Jack wants.  A clashing of swords
between Will and Jack reminds me of milder sword fights in 30s films with
Errol Flynn and Basil Rathbone.  An exciting film with good score, but it is
scary and may be too much or too long for little kids.  As a big kid, I
enjoyed it!  8/10

******
17 August 2003
10

I usually don't like pirate movies, but this one is great!!! The special
effects are not the important thing in any film, but I have to say that
they
are fantastic, when the pirates are under the moonlight, fighting, and
they
look like skeletons and then like people... that's sooo amazing!the plot is not very original. I mean, a lot of films are about a curse
and
a treasure, and romance,... but this movie has humor, very good action,
(not
just explosions and special effects) and romance, but not the boring one
in
my opinion.The actors play very good their roles. In special, Johnny Depp's
character
is very well played and it's very very funny!Well, in my opinion is a very good film. THAT'S
ENTERTAINMENT!!!

******
17 August 2003
10

Despite the few that disliked this movie, i thought it was one of the
best
things i have seen this year.  There hasn't been a good pirate movie for
years.Of course, the idea of setting this on a theme park ride seemed like an
odd
concept for a film, i thought it worked rather well indeed.I enjoyed the story, the effects, the costumes, the script, the
lot!
I give my thumbs up to the producers, designers, director, scriptwriter,
all
of them.I also have to say that the casting for this film was great.Geoffrey Rush, Keira Knightley, Orlando Bloom and the rest of the cast
gave
great performances.  However, i thought the best performance came from
non
other than Johnny Depp himself.  I just loved his character, and it is
safe
to say, he gets most of the best lines in the film.
And he plays him so well! I was a moderate Johnny Depp fan before the
movie,
and a great deal bigger fan of him now.  I hope he continues making such
great movies and acting to such a good degree of talent.The special CGI effects of the cursed crew are also great to see.  As
they
shift in and out of the moonlight effortlessly, so do the effects,
keeping
in time with the actors performances all the way through.Truly, and enjoyable, entertaining, swashbuckling, fun packed movie.Although i could say a huge deal more about this film, i won't.  I'm
going
to leave this squarely up to you.  However, i do recommend you try to see
this film if you can. If you're a fan of Orlando or Johnny, then see it
just
for them.9/10


******
17 August 2003
8

too fun. the best blockbuster of the year. Johnny Depp has the skills and
even Legolas did some tight stuff. the sword fights were awesome and the
effects were first-rate. if you haven't seen it yet stop seeing crap like
freddy vs. jason and check out the pirates, savvy?

******
17 August 2003
10

pirates is a wonderful journey full of action, adventure and
laughs
i loved every second of it   johnny depp was amazing  its deserving of a
few
oscar noms in my opinion   awesome movie

******
17 August 2003
9

This movie is the best fun I've had at a summer movie in a very long
time!
Johnny Depp gives a bravura performance as wacky and unpredictable
Captain
Jack Sparrow and is a joy to watch.  Geoffrey Rush and the rest of the
cast
look like they're having a blast, and all the energy translates into a
lot
of fun.  There are plot problems, of course, but I thought they were
minor,
and some dialogue is a bit ruff, while there are times the scene could
have
cut out sooner.  But overall, this is a swashbuckler of a good time!


******
17 August 2003
10

I thought Pirates of the Caribbean was a great movie. I thought Orlando
Bloom was very brave and heroic, just as he is in Lord of the Rings. I
thought Johnny Depp was brilliant for playing such a funny character, and
I
almost cried when he got stabbed by the pirate :'(, but then I saw he
turned
into one of the cursed pirates, and I was shocked! Kiera Knightly is a
beautiful woman and she is a great actress. She was very awesome
throughout
the movie. That's what I think of the actors. And now, about the movie
itself, I thought was the best (in my opinion). It's so funny and cool.
It's
a great movie for everyone, especially kids. I wanna see this movie again
and again until it comes on dvd and video!!! :)

******
16 August 2003
9

From the opening scenes, I realised that this film was going to be something
special.  Having been disappointed by such films as T3 and Bruce Almighty,
it made a change for a film to live up to it's billing.The special effects are stupendous, and used to move the film along, rather
than carry a poor script.  The end fight sequence moving between the shafts
of light is superb.There are many laugh out loud scenes, and at no time does the film slow
down.  Well paced and well written, I can only hope that any future sequel
is as good.Recommended for all the family, this is a definite 9 out of
10.

******
16 August 2003
7

Johnny Depp and co shiver their timbers, hoist the mains'l and buckle
their
swashes in this jolly romp on the high seas.The, frankly, bonkers plot sees much toing and froing and double double
crossing as Jack Sparrow tries to reclaim his ship, the semi-mythical
Black
Pearl, now captained by Barbarossa. He in turn is hell bent on lifting the
curse on him and his men by trying to recover an ancient Aztec coin
belonging to British Governor's daughter, Elizabeth Swann.Depp steals the show as brain-addled pirate, Jack Sparrow. Geoffrey Rush
hams it up as Jack Sparrow's nemesis Barbarossa but lacks the true menace
of, say, Alan Rickman in Robin Hood. Keira Knightley is the spunky love
interest, Elizabeth Swann while Orlando Bloom once again dons tights for
his
action role as her unrequited love.The other standout performance is that of Jack Davenport as Keira
Knightley's fiance. British viewers will know Davenport as Miles from the
BBC's This Life. Here he returns to form as the sneering, preening,
supercilious Commodore Norrington after his shot in the BBC's lamentable
'comedy' Coupling.Strangely, the action scenes are leaden, lacking the panache of the Errol
Flynn-like movies of yesteryear. These needed better editing and, in fact,
the slow second act could have done with some judicious pruning, easily
losing fifteen to twenty minutes off the running time.However, all in all, great fun that rises head and shoulders over the rest
of the summer's disappointing releases.


******
16 August 2003
6

a few months ago i stumbled across the poster for this little ditty. and
without a second thought, lumped it down to being rubbish. so months later
when it comes out to rave reviews, i was suprised to say the least. a good
pirate movie? never.
but i went to see it. and what can i say, i enjoyed it immensily. a good
old
fashioned pirate yarn for the modern audience could be difficult to get
off
the ground, but this film has everything a story needs. drama, intrigue,
scares, action, and most unexpectedly, comedy. this movie is as funny as
it
is adventurous.
the script on paper may not be so funny, but the actors add their own
humourous invention to it. with johnny depp stealing every frame he's ever
in. with his drunken swagger and delivery of lines, he becomes the king of
comedy. the most refreshing character seen in years, and by far the most
memorable ting about this picture. with decent support and a thrilling
storyline pirates comes out storming.
a tad head scratching at times due to lots and lots going on on screen.
but
the overall enjoyment of it seems to blot all that out.oscar nom for johnny depp? lets hope so

******
16 August 2003
10

I thought that Pirates was an awesome movie it had plenty of adventure and
action. Ok so maybe it was a little lengthy, but so your seeing a movie,
you
should expect some of your time to be wasted. Of Course, Johnny Depp was
the
most experienced actor there, and Rush, and he did carry the movie a
little,
but  besides that it was altogether a great movie. I've seen it six times
now and counting but thats only because it was a good enough movie for me
to
see 6 times in a row. But all of the chicks out there have to agree
Orlando
and Depp were hotties!

******
15 August 2003
9

Shiver me timbers, hearty! This has got to be the best entertainment of this
type I've seen in a long time. Errol Flynn himself would be very pleased at
this makeover. Depp is fantastic as Captain Jack Sparrow and 'camps' it up
magnificently, and now adds another great movie to his credits. He is very
ably supported by the rest of the cast but is head and shoulders above them
all! Some of the humour seemed to go over the heads of the younger audience
but I laughed out loud loads of times. Great music and the special effects
are brilliant especially the underwater scenes. I had thought that 2.5 hours
would seem a bit long for this type of movie but the time just disappeared.
Superb family viewing; a must for everyone. Certainly one for the DVD
collection. Did Orlando Bloom get his hat etc. in the final scene from Errol
Flynn?

******
15 August 2003
8

It would have been a good movie without him...but with his extreme talent as
a versatile actor, he creates Captain Jack Sparrow as a "not quite hero" and
"not quite villian" whose peculiarities, mannerisms and quips are enough to
make you want to see this again! Disney...if you're listening...I think it
would be great if you could bring Depp back as Sparrow in another
movie...(8/10)

******
15 August 2003
10

I went to the movies last night to watch Pirates of the Caribbean with some
friends and i had the best time!!  The story was awesome, the cast was
awesome, everything about it was awesome!! Johnny Depp rules!!! i've seen
almost all his movies but he played this role absolutely the best!! Capt.
Jack Sparrow was the best thing about the entire movie! he was soooooooo
funny! Orlando Bloom was absolutely gorgeous! the action scenes were
superbe! especially in the beginning, the sword fight between Sparrow and
Turner...
Absolutely a piece of art!!!
10/10

******
15 August 2003
9

I really liked this movie. The plot is pretty predictable, but the humor is
good, the cast is good too. I really liked Jack Sparrow, as a person. He's
funny, little mad, but smart & he knows how to get himself out of hard
situations, Johnny Depp gave a great performance.
The movie is not a brilliant one, but it makes you feel good, and it cheers
up...
It's not boring at all, but it's not all about fighting and car (ok - ship)
chasing.
I gave it 9 of 10, cause after all it's a pirate-summer-romantic-predictable
comedy. Which is very...well..."fresh" on the background of other summer
hits. 
In one sentence - Great, not brilliant, but great! (:

******
15 August 2003
8

When i went to go see this movie i was excited to see my favorite ride at
disneyland come to life. The movie itself was excellent. Johnny Depp stole
the whole show as Captain Jack Sparro. Bloom is an up and coming actor
people should watch. Kera Knightly is absolutely gorgeous. When she first
came out i forgot where i was for a second there. Rush also did a tremendous
job as Barbosa. Above all i think this film was great and i definitely
recommend it to everyone. The only thing they should have added was a couple
more memorable scenes from the ride, but other than that it was
awesome!

******
15 August 2003
6

Fun film.  It's the first time I've seen Depp do a crowd-pleasing lead.  His
Jack Sparrow is pretty much standard Deppian posturing which really works
for me, but I was surprised to see it as the centerpiece of a Summer
blockbuster.  Between Scissorhands and Fear and Loathing, he always seemed
to me at least as smart as the script, but in this case he pretty much soars
above it and delivers his lines with a real relish for
camp.The rest of the film was sorta okay, which is saying a lot since I generally
loath the work of The House of Bruckheimer.  Like a lot of other 2.5 hour
braindead epics, this one could have edited down for time.  It's not Bergman
for heaven's sake - the characters beyond Depp's and Rush's (and theirs are
all style) are almost cheap cardboard cutouts.  The advantage of stock
characters is supposed to be economy.The story is excellent compared to general summer fair, especially in this
summer plagued by stories ripped from comics, old TV shows, reality TV, and,
in Bruckheimer's other Summer film, a bunch of cop show cliches mashed
together.  It's not so complex a story that 2.5 hours is
necessary.If producer Bruckheimer has a signature shot it's either 1) that much
overused A-Team stunt explosion in the middle ground while a person is
catapulted away from it in the fore, arms and legs kicking, or 2) special
effect shots THAT NEVER END.  In almost any Bruckheimer film there is an
effect or stunt that makes you say `wow' and you want to see it again, like
the melting heads in Raiders of the Lost Arc once did.  With Bruckheimer you
can count on seeing that effect over and over and over again during the
course of the film until every drop of techno magic is
drained.The shot of the undead pirates walking on the ocean floor was great.  It is
exactly the sort of imaginative storytelling that has been lacking in many
recent blockbuster films.

******
15 August 2003
7

[I saw this in the theater, YMMV]First off, I have to say I am a fan of the ride at Disneyworld and looked
forward to the movie.  Although there were four or five different parts of
the movie I remember from the ride, the movie is not just scenes from the
ride strung together inchoerently.  Instead, we slowly learn the story of
Captain Jack Sparrow.  For a movie aimed at teenage girls with the inclusion
of Orlando Bloom and a feel-good fairy-tale story ending, it is suprisingly
good.Finally, I have to say that I was suprised at the end of the movie to see
this was a Jerry Bruckheimer movie.  If I had known that, I would never have
gone.  He makes terrible, over the top action flicks like Days of Thunder,
Bad Boys, The Rock, Con Air, Armageddon and Blackhawk Down.  And in
retrospect, his grubby fingerprints can be seen in the overly-long action
sequences.  The cute computer trick of having the actors move in and out of
the moonlight to look whole then like a skeleton is neat the first five
minutes of the final fight.  But, as in all Bruckheimer movies, the action
for action's sake is dragged on far too long.

******
15 August 2003
9

Johnny Depp excells as the slightly off pirate captain Jack Sparrow, his
Fear and loathing style character draws a laugh every time he is on
screen,
which thankfully is quite often, some good british performances too I am
happy to say with Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley showing good
chemistry,
but being shaddowed by Jack Davenports the commanding performance of the
up
right british officer, Anyone who wants to look up his roots should get
the
very funny british comedy series 'Coupling'.In round up this is a refreshing break from the ushall Holliwood
production
line of Superhero movies and sequals, and I'm sure I'll still want to be
watching these salty sea dogs in years to come with all the family, just
be
prepared to be talking in pirate and want to swashbuckle when you leave
the
cinema. Yo Ho Ho A Pirates movie for me.

******
15 August 2003
8

It's great to see a movie made by people who remember what it was like
going
to saturday morning pictures, where our parents would leave us at the door
and in we went with a few hundred others to let rip, and boo, hiss and
cheer.  Pirates brings all that back, with the writing, action, effects
and
great perfomances by all bar the still not good keira, she does try but
does
not quite make it. she was crap in beckham, and is not the great beauty
she
and some others think she is.  Anyway the film was great fun and as
everyone
has picked up on Johnny Depp shows how good he is as an actor and what a
great sense of humour he has.  Keith Richards should be proud as he is now
immortalised on celluloid. 

******
15 August 2003
9

When I went to watch Pirates of the Caribbean I really wasn't expecting
much. I had heard about its success in the US, but the movie didnt really
appeal to me, I was never "into" pirates when i was young, and I don't
tend
to like films set about 200 years ago, I usually find them slow and
boring.
However, was I pleasantly surprised. From the moment the movie started,
till
the moment it ended, I truly enjoyed myself. Not a single moment of this
film was boring, and although the film is slightly long you barely notice
it. In fact, I have seen this movie several times, and i still didn't find
it even slightly tedious. Its got all the qualities of a top movie: fast
pace, excellent script, excellent actors, excellent set, excellent action
and excellent special effects.  The acting was superb. Needless to say,
Johnny Depp stole the show with his hilarious rendition of Jack Sparrow,
however I think all the actors and actresses were great, and I mean ALL of
them, Bloom, Knightly, Rush, and even the smaller parts were perfectly
played. There was not a single poorly acted part in the whole film,
contrary
to pretty much every other summer film that has come out this year.
Therefore, I would give this movie a 9 out of 10.  The reason why it
doesnt
get a 10 is because, Pirates Of The Caribbean is not a deep, meaningful
story set out to send a serious message to the audience, etc. all that
stuff.  Its just a really, really, really fun movie that doesn't take
itself
too seriously. Its out there to entertain the audience, and it does a
flawless job in doing so. Films seriously don't get as enjoyable as
this.

******
15 August 2003
8

This is not the sort of film that I would watch, but as I am a huge
Johnny
Depp fan I did and was pleasantly suprised.  It kept my attention for the
entire film and I found all of the acting superb, but Depp definately
stood
out.  See this film

******
15 August 2003
10

This movie was absolutely brilliant.  Johnny Depp gave a phenomenal
performance, well deserving of an Oscar nod.  The supporting cast was
also
exceptional.  Aside from the dazzling players, this fun filled adventure
is
completed by the captivating score and astonishing special effects, both
of
which are also Oscar-worthy.  If you haven't seen this movie, don't walk,
RUN to the nearest theater!  It's a Pirate's Life for Me!!!

******
15 August 2003
10

This is a movie that has everything. From incredible casting ( Johnny
Depp
is hilarious, witty and pure brilliant - Keira Knightly is stunningly
beautiful and bright - Orlando Bloom plays a magnificent Will Turner and
Geoffrey Rush is perfect for the "not-so-nice-guy" ) to an immense
action/adventure mood that crawls about in the movie.This is without
doubt
one of the best movies to come out since .. well , since ever I
suppose...This movie deserves without a doubt a shiny place in my
treasure
ye calleth the "Top 10".This movie be fine , says I!

******
15 August 2003
10

This movie had everything in it to be a bad film. An awful film. But it's
not: in fact, it's one of the best action-adventure movies of (at least)
this and the past decade.
Johnny Depp is over the top but hilarious as capt. Jack Sparrow. He seems
to
be out of balance everywhere he gets; hence the swaggering. To compensate
for his eccentric behaviour, we get Orlando Bloom's Will Turner: he plays
it
straight but gets the girl - Keira Knightly, not doing to bad herself.
Geoffrey Rush's performance is not as extravagant as Johnny Depp, but he
does a great job at it anyway. The extra's are good too, and though the
plot
story is a bit thin (!), the gags are great (one word: fork), and even
though it lasts for 2,5 hrs. it never got boring for me. Highly
recommended.

******
15 August 2003
10

This was a very good movie, I thought.  Its been in the Top 5 in the Box
Office since it came out which is very good.  There was also only one cuss
word in there which makes it good for little kids as well.  Hollywood
should
make more of this type of movie.

******
14 August 2003
10

Pirate movies eh? There have been some good and some that have been, shall
we say, awful! So, I was sceptical when I went to watch this. To be honest,
I did not really know anything about it and went to see it as my gf wanted
to see it and cor blimey guv'nor am I glad? Well, quite frankly... YES!!! I
laughed a lot I admired the settings marvelled at the acting and laughed a
bit more. I was impressed by Johnny Depp and was even surprised at the
abilities of Orlando Bloom. And I was very happy to see some really good
English actors in the supporting roles. Johnathan Price has always been a
favourite of mine since the `Brazil' days and Jack Davenport, who played
Norrington is a very well known actor on our side of the pond.The Action sequences were great and the comedy was incredible the film is
marvellous fun. My only adverse comment is that it was perhaps a little too
long, but that did not really bother me as I enjoyed it so much... In fact,
I only wanted it to end as I was desperate to use the loo....

******
14 August 2003
8

Johnny Depp really saved this movie from being just mediocre. I watched it
just to see what he'd say and do next. His performance really breathed new
life into this movie, and he definetely made the movie more watchable.
Orlando Bloom also did a good job as did the rest of the cast. However, the
female lead was the typical damsel in distress, and I would like to see a
sequel with a funnier Depp, a more swashbuckling Bloom, and a stronger
female lead. Overall, fun movie which Disney should produce more of.                                                          
8/10

******
14 August 2003
10

This movie is awesome the far best one that I have seen........
Johnny Depp did a wonderful job in his performance.....So did Geoffrey
Rush,
Orlando bloom and Keira Knightley.... It's awesome go see it if you
haven't!!!!!!

******
14 August 2003
8

This is one of the better movies of the year, and one of the best pirate
movies I've seen. Very entertaining! Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush are
brilliant in this movie. Keep your eye on Keira Knightley, she's a star on
the rise.

******
14 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is seriously the best movie I have ever seen!
Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow is completely brilliant, incredibly
sexy, and hilarious!  You can't take your eyes off the screen when you see
it, and I loved it so much that I saw it 4 times already!  And after all,
it
is over 2 hours long, so you get your bang for your buck!

******
13 August 2003
10

I have always been a big fan of the Swashbuckler movies,and like Jonny Depp,
so rushed off to see this one as soon as it opened. Basically people, if you
are only going to see one film this summer, POTC has to be it. It's
exciting, funny and action packed, with a wonderful cast. But the stand out
performance has to be from the wonderfully unorthadox Jonny Depp. He could
have played Jack Sparrow like any other dashing rouge, but in true Depp
style, he adds his own unique characteristics and make Sparrow a wonderfully
funny, charming (and lets face it girls,damn sexy)character.In every scene
he's not in, your just waiting for him to come back on screen. He steals
every scene he's in. 
This film is just whats needed after the overblown self important junk thats
come out this summer. POTC is a great way to spend a couple of hours. It
didn't even feel that long to me.....FAB!

******
13 August 2003
10

I was dragged to see Pirates of the Caribbean, and I agreed to go only
because I figured no matter how awful the movie is, Geoffrey Rush always
gives a good performance and Orlando Bloom is easy on the eyes. After that
show, I wanted to watch it again right away. I settled for the next day.
Since then I've seen it four more times and I'm looking forward to seeing
it
again. I have never, ever been this enchanted by any movie.  I resist
action/adventure movies, I cannot stand any movie that involves a
knife/sword/blade of any kind, I especially don't like Pirate movies and
prior to this, was not a fan of Johnny Depp.  This movie has become a very
distinct exception and I encourage anyone whose film style prefers
Sleepless
In Seattle to Indiana Jones to give this movie a chance - don't miss out
on
a wonderful time.I live near Disney World and the ride the movie is based on is one of my
all-time favorites.  For those of you familiar with the ride, I am happy
to
report that the film captures the whole spirit of the ride:  a good story
and told tongue-in-cheek.  For latter quality, we can thank Johnny Depp
for
that.  I remember thinking that the words "Walt Disney Pictures" and
"Johnny
Depp" do not sound right together, but after seeing this I realize just
how
important an actor like Depp is to Disney right now. For me, he brought
that
element of magic to the film that recreated the magic of the theme park
ride
it is based on. Had Disney insisted on a more conservative actor or
performance, this movie would have definitely been lost to Davy Jones'
Straight To Video locker.All the peformances are good but Depp's performance is by far the most
memorable, interesting and scene-chewing of any film I have ever seen. And
I
personally think it takes a lot of talent and possibly true madness to
upstage Geoffrey Rush. Keith Richards, Pepe LePew, Dudley Moore's
'Arthur',
drunken Dean Martin - every description of Depp's performance is adequate
in
giving some kind of an idea of what to expect. A new standard has been
set!
To illustrate what I mean, after living in Captain Jack Sparrow's
adventures
for awhile, I went to see American Wedding.  Somehow, post-Sparrow,
Stifler
and his (mis)adventures seemed kind of... boring.If there are a few bad things I can say about this movie is that it is so
much fun, such an original character that I generally have been bored by
every movie/performance I've seen since then and b) it's going to be a
lonnnng hard wait for the DVD and sequel.

******
13 August 2003
10

This movie has it all, GREAT cast, Unstoppable action, Perfect dialog and
perfect plot. And the MUSIC! Just spectacular. It was refreshing to see a
movie of this caliber make it so big WITHOUT blood and guts and sex and
foul
language! It is just an awesome movie in all regards. I have seen this
movie
5 times!  Johnny Depp absolutely steals the show (I love him!) as Captain
Sparrow. The actor who plays Captain Barbosa...was excellent as well. This
movie is for all ages and I will buy it when it comes out on video for
sure...it'll be right next to other 'classics' in my collection including
A
Beautiful Mind and Fiddler on the Roof. Just spectacular in every
way!


******
13 August 2003
10

Really great acting cute guys nice twist. I loved it. Best acting I have
ever seen from Jonny Depp and the co-star was sexy. The Black Pearl was
magnificent. The swords play fast and exciting. The pearls crew was funny
and scary all at the same time.

******
12 August 2003
10

I loved this film.  Wonderfully atmospheric, energetic, spooky, and
downright fun.  As usual, Johnny Depp turns in a performance so immersive,
you forget it's him playing the role.  And as typical from the academy, I'll
bet he's passed over for an Oscar nomination on it.  Sure, the film isn't
"high artsy-fartsy," but it is a great piece of work and Depp does a perfect
job as Cpt. Jack Sparrow.

******
12 August 2003
10

Superb.
An evening of swashed buckles and derring do in the finest tradition of the
Hollywood Pirate epic
Depp, Bloom and Rush are all excellent, the locations perfect, the script
amusing and intriguing, the score rousing and the special effects delicately
supreme.
Even the Redcoats and their officers turn out to be heroic (thank god Mel
Gibson didn't get a role in this film or he'd have joined the crew of the
Black Pearl and slaughtered the redcoats one and all).
Love the ending.Go and see it, it's an experience. 10 Jolly Rodgers and a bottle of rum

******
12 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean delivers to us a swashbuckling adventure film
with
humor, romance, action... and Johnny Depp. He gives, by far, his best
performance as the "permanently" drunk Capt. Jack Sparrow. I think this
film
was the best action/comedy, all-around best movie of the
summer!

******
12 August 2003
10

I loved Pirates of the Caribbean and cant wait to see it again I hope
there
is going to be a sequel because I would definatly go and see it!!! I loved
the costumes and the acting!!! I enjoyed it because it was funny and had
romance!!! I loved Orlando Bloom in the movie!!

******
12 August 2003
10

`Pirates of the Caribbean' is one of those movies that don't quench your
thirst with just one viewing.  You have to go back several times, just to
keep up that same happy feeling you have when you leave the theater.  I
still haven't had enough of it, myself.  But I've only seen it eight
times.
And it's the best I've seen in a long time.First off, the cast is better than excellent.  Never once at all did I
feel
another actor/actress could have done a better job than the three main
characters.  Keira Knightley depicts the beautiful Elizabeth Swann, a
gorgeous young woman who still manages to *use* the brain she was given,
unlike too many damsels in distress on the big screen. Orlando Bloom is
coming into the acting world with flying colors.  He portrayed Will
Turner
in a way that every teenage girl cannot help but fall in love.  Will is
an
extremely rugged blacksmith, and yet a hopeless romantic all at the same
time.  Many people take his `I would die for her' line too lightly,
mostly
because of its overuse and the fact that it directly precedes another of
Johnny Depp's hilarious comments as Captain Jack Sparrow.Speaking of which, Johnny Depp completely stole the show away from anyone
within a ten mile radius.  Every line that left his lips split the entire
audience's sides, even if it was not meant to do so.  I have to admit, I
had
never once seen one of his movies previously (I'm not a fan of most
strange/gory movies), but after watching his performance in `Pirates', I
will never doubt the man.  He *was* Captain Jack Sparrow.  I never saw
Johnny Depp anywhere on screen.  Only Jack, from his most comical walk
and
slurred speech, down to the blinking of his eyes.  I would LOVE more than
anything to rave about Geoffrey Rush's performance as Captain Barbossa,
but
I am at a loss for words (and space).  All you need to know is that he is
the definitive pirate of this movie.Of course I could go on and on about the realism of everything: sets
(stunning), costumes (brilliant) and make-up (just look at Johnny's
eye-liner).  But what blew me away almost as much as the outstanding
acting
was the score.  I've always been a lover of Klaus Badelt, but the music
in
this movie alone was a huge reason I HAD to go back and see it again.  My
wallet thanks me for buying the soundtrack instead.  The music reminded
me
much of The Lord of the Rings music (also tremendous score) even though
it
sounds nothing like it.  But Mr. Badelt captured `piracy' itself in this
music and it'll be stuck in my head for a long while.The film did seem to run a bit long, but it was worth it to see the
characters in that extra screen time.  It is oh so good to the last drop.
No one I've met has regretted going to see this movie and I recommend it
to
everyone.  It is action-packed, very comical, and is worth seeing over
and
over again.  If you enjoy every element that makes a great movie, Pirates
of
the Caribbean is definitely for you.My rating: 8 out of 10.

******
12 August 2003
10

This film has probably made its way to my personal 10 best of all time.
It
is light hearted and funny yet has a few moments that really make you
think
(like Jack's two line summery of what the real rules of life are).  The
acting, costumes, dialog, and special effects are all first rate.  This is
the sort of film that you will want to see again and again.  Depp and his
excellent portrayal of Cpt. Jack Sparrow pretty much makes the movie,
though
Rush's Captain Barbossa was simply amazing.  This is simply one of those
magical films where good actors, are combined with an excellent script and
solid direction.  This one has classic written all over
it.10/10

******
11 August 2003
9

Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl is easily the most
enjoyable blockbuster film of the silly season for one simple reason: its
immensely good fun.Its a classic tale of adventure on the high seas as blacksmith Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) discovers his true heritage as a pirate. The wonderful,
surprise-laden plot is too intricately daft to spoil, suffice to say it
rattles from start to finish with cursed medallions, sea battles, hidden
islands, secret tunnels, treasure, ghostly scares, sword fights, betrayal,
romance, action, adventure and of course pirates (both alive and
"undead").The whole cast is superb with Orlando Bloom playing the straight hero to
Johnny Depp's hilarious and stunningly offbeat pirate Jack Sparrow (or
"Captain" Jack Sparrow as he insists on being known). Kiera Knightly is
wonderful as spunky love interest Elizabeth Swann, who gets a lot of the
best lines (including some great gags about corsets). Geoffrey Rush makes a
splendid villain, and Jonathan Pryce is marvellous as Knightly's cowardly
father.The script is sharp and often hysterically funny ("the pirate code is more
like guidelines"). The special effects are stunning, as is the
cinematography, which makes beautiful use of widescreen. The music score is
appropriately rousing and Gore Verbinski directs the whole thing with a
tremendously old fashioned sense of fun which makes this film rank up with
the classic Hollywood swashbucklers like Captain Blood.All in all, a first rate adventure film.

******
11 August 2003
7

This film has so much going for it. Great special effects, top
notch
eye candy in the pleasant shapes of Keira Knightly and Orlando
Bloom,
a killer performance from Johnny Depp and above all cinematic
jokes
that are genuinely funny. My one gripe is that it is too long and
the
ending was so drawn out and confused that it nearly ruined it for
me.
The climactic fight scene is also far too long. Cut a good
forty
minutes off the thing and you would be left with a much better
film.


******
11 August 2003
6

Pirates of the Caribbean is a pretty predictable movie. It has the
oh-so-lovable, slacker of a semi villain, and then it has the hero out to
get the girl he loves. The other pirates are of course all comic reliefs,
and the rest is just spent idly with special effects and rescue after
rescue. Fun to watch but that's as far as it goes.6/10

******
11 August 2003
9
... which just shows you how bad the supposed "big" releases really were. I
mean, I had never really heard much about this movie, and only went because
I saw Johnny Depp's name on it, and I was more than pleasantly
surprised.This is a good, old-fashioned, swash-buckling, rollicking adventure movie
with a few special effects thrown in for good measure.The cast was great, the effects were there, but did not take over the movie,
(perhaps the makers of The Hulk should take note of this comment!) and the
script was an old-fashioned Saturday morning crowd pleaser.Thank God for this movie - the only movie of the summer that has risen above
the total dross at the box office.Roll on December and The Return of the King!

******
11 August 2003
10

Awesome movie !
my advice: go see it ! have you seen it already, go see it
again.
Especially for the "Easter Egg" after the End Credits, it's short but worth
it.
A definite 10 ! Johnny Depp is a great Pirate and the cursed Pirates are
marvellous to see (also switching between Skeletal/normal form in between
light/dark during fights,etc.).
Pirates of the Caribbean has always been one of my favourite rides in
EuroDisney it looks better(especially outside) and is more thrilling then
the one in Florida.
I can't wait to see the Haunted Mansion now !
Also all the "parts" of the ride (scenery and Music/song) can be found back
in the movie, which is great  and something to look out
for.After all, who didn't want to be a Pirate when he was young
?!

******
11 August 2003
7

It's all about Johnny Depp. One of the very few summer blockbuster
performances that warrants serious Oscar consideration. Like Edward
Scissorhands, Depp was born to play Jack Sparrow. Amazing art direction,
sets, costumes, props and special effects. Good score too. This film should
nab a few nominations in those areas as well. Definitely worth the price of
admission.

******
11 August 2003
10

This movie was absolutley fabulous. I do not know how anybody could
possibly
say it was BORING and BADLY done. It was not. # 1 Orlando Bloom had a good
part, and its not all looks that make him good, as it seems to be with
most
people. Kierra Knightley played her role very well, which was   a good
character. If anybody thinks she was bad its not because she was "the
girl"
in the movie. The special effects were beautifully done. I loved every
part
of the movie and i dont think any thing could change. Jack Sparrow must be
the best one in that movie. I didn't see this movie because i was into
pirates, because i always hated them. But because it looked awesome. But
now
i love them. and ive seen this movie 5 times already. It is a MUST SEE
DONT
MISS OUT! ...all is said


******
11 August 2003
9

After seeing Pirates of the Caribbean, all I can say is "wow".  This movie
is the first in a long time that I have walked out of saying "That movie
was
awesome."  Usually it is "cool, not bad, pretty good".  I was wondering
when
I would see Pirates again, I loved it.It has been criticized mainly due to its sloppy direction and unnecessary
length.  Both points are justified...it is a wee bit too long, and the
entire film felt somewhat choppy.  However, these are both minor and
forgotten when the action begins and Johnny Depp takes the screen.  Depp
is
spectacular, and dominates the screen when he is present.  His costume and
makeup are unbelievable, and fit perfectly with his character.  Geoffrey
Rush was not bad at all in his role as the pirate captain, but I could not
help feeling as though Orlando Bloom was somewhat out of his
element.I feel this movie is what the summer needed, it is a terrific film. The
plot
is somewhat shaky and doesn't hold up throughout the entire movie, but it
sure is entertaining. Even if it is not your favorite genre, Depp's
performance makes the price of admission well worth it. Very, very fun
movie.9 / 10

******
11 August 2003
10

i really like this film, its got action , adventure,comedy...and johnny
depp. whats not to like.
the are some great quotes,characters, and effects. i love it.....go and
see
it.

******
11 August 2003
9

Excellent move, very fun for teens and adults. Johnny Depp does an
excellent
job as Capital Jack Sparrow, perfect for the role.  Our family of four
was
very pleased with the movie and will purchase a copy for our collection
when
it comes out, but see on the big screen, the scenery is
marvelous.

******
11 August 2003
10

This movie is fun for all ages don't let the length of the film put you off
you won't even notice the time go by.  It brings swashbuckling to life like
we haven't seen it before.  Depp is fantastic and the rest of the cast, well
seeing is believing! Enjoy

******
11 August 2003
10

I was pleasantly surprised by POTC... I never expected anything so good to
come from Disney.  The story and acting were great, and the special
effects
may be the best of all time (The Matrix -the first one- still has the best
camera techniques).  Definately the best movie of the year, and one of the
best movies of all time.

******
11 August 2003
10

I highly enjoyed this movie (every time I saw it!)!  The story is rich
and
complex, but all loose ends are addressed before the end of the film.
The
acting is excellent--Johnny Depp reveals a spectacular new side to his
acting ability as Jack Sparrow, a true scalawag with a sharp wit.
Orlando
Bloom and Keira Knightley expertly portray their characters, as well,
with
completely believable performances.  The writers deserve praise as well;
I've found quotable, amusing lines in every scene.  I'd definitely
recommend
this movie to anyone who enjoys good, clean fun (very little gore, very
little language, and all of the romance is clean!!  It's barely PG-13...
I'm
glad that this generation has realized that those things are necessary to
sell tickets) and high adventure, because that's what this movie
is--adventure at its finest.

******
11 August 2003
10

A surprisingly good summer blockbuster, in my view.  Quick-moving, witty,
funny, and exciting.  Depp's characterization of Captain Jack Sparrow
steals
the show.  I've never been a great Depp fan, but he's marvelous in this
movie.  Orlando Bloom is very good, too, and so is Geoffrey Rush as the
villain. An energetic musical score adds to the zest.  Watch it
twice!!

******
10 August 2003
10

Pirates is quite possibly the best movie I have seen all year. It has that
special quality that reminds us why we love movies so much, it is an
escapist. It has absolutely everything you'd want from a great movie;
there's adventure, romance, suspense, comic relief and some great special
effects. The acting is fantastic, Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow
completely steals the show and puts in his best performance in a long time.
No joke, this man deserves to be nominated for an oscar. The rest of the
cast is very good as well, each person manages to create a character that
you really care about. Kiera Knightly will definetly be headed to
superstardom after this one, not only is she a great actress she is simply
gorgeous. The bottom line with pirates is that it is a fun movie but avoids
becoming cheesy because you actually care about the characters and the
outcome. It is a movie everyone can enjoy, very young kids might be
frightened but there is enough comic relief to keep it from getting too
dark. If you are going to see one movie this summer, make it Pirates of the
Carribean.

******
10 August 2003
7

This might be well the summer movie of the year. The audiences at least seem
to prefer it to Terminator 3, or Matrix. I saw it a few days after the
release here in Israel, and the theater was much more populated than with
the previous summer movies, and the reaction of the public was more
sympathetic. I think the reason is that the film does not pretend at all to
be more than it is - Disney-level entertainment. When you enter a Disney
park you leave out any big cultural experience expectation, you get in
childhood mood and enjoy the ride. Do the same with 'Pirates', and you may
enjoy it. Backed up by some decent acting, and with special effects that
will fight for the Oscar with the Terminator stuff, the film is decent
entertainment - probably some of best you can expect from the US studios
this summer. 7/10 on my personal scale.

******
10 August 2003
10

Perfect casting on all accounts. Probably the best action/adventure since
Indiana Jones. Depp is mezmerizing as CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow. The stunts are
awesome, the sword battles are awesome. Just a great movie, the best I've
seen in some time.

******
10 August 2003
10

Best Johnny Depp performance to date! Congratulations!!! Keep bringing
your
unique style and energy to every performance. I for one will see every one
of your movies. You deserve an Oscar for this role. My favorite Depp
characters include Jack Sparrow, Gilbert Grape, Sam from Benny & Joon,
Icabod Crane, Edward Scissorhands, & Don Juan.

******
10 August 2003
10

I thought that this movie was great. I love the way Johnny Depp portrays
Jack Sparrow, and I love Orlando Bloom as Will Turner. I have seen it only
twice now, but I know someone who has seen it 15 times in theaters because
they liked it so much. It is definitely a must see.

******
9 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean puts just about every other film released this
summer to shame. The cast is superb, particularly Johnny Depp who's
eccentric Jack Sparrow steals every scene. The film looks beautiful in every
department. The script (from the writers of Shrek) is smart, funny and true
to the genre. 
This kinda film is just whats needed amongst the slew of the superhero films
and sequels, good old fashioned family entertainment with out a single frame
of bullet-time in sight. A must.

******
9 August 2003
8

Pirates of the Caribbean is a solid swashbuckling adventure of the type
that
reminds of
me of better times.  In fact, it made me recall The Princess Bride,
another
film in a
similar genre.Performances are fine here, if a bit over the top on many occasions.
Johnny
Depp is a
scene stealer: the audience is just waiting for him to reappear while the
other characters
get serious screen time.  The heroine is sexy, Orlando Bloom is the
typical
white hero,
lots of funny situations.  Cliche ending, but what do you expect?  The
film
should have
ended sooner, and some of the snappy comments were rather stupid.So, it's not a masterpiece but, all in all, a very solid piece of
cinematic
entertainment.
My rating is 8/10.

******
9 August 2003
10

I wasn't really excited to see this movie at first because I am not a huge
fan of pirates and fighting movies. However, this movie had just the right
amount of fighting, comedy, and romance. Ever time this movie seemed to
get
serious a one-liner would be thrown in and everyone in the audience was
cracking up. Great movie!!

******
9 August 2003
10

I'm a 56 year old who usually:
- Doesn't go in for Disney movies
- Doesn't have any real interest in Pirates or their movies
- Could care less about Johnny Depp
- Doesn't particularly like movies in excess of 2 hoursWith the above in mind, all of above can be thrown out the window with
respect to POTC.  I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a movie so
much.
The  acting was excellent - especially Mr. Depp's character.  Throw in
some
unexpected humor, great supporting roles, and wonderful action, and you
have
the makings for the hit of the summer.  10 out of 10!!

******
9 August 2003
10

My dad took my family to see this, and I wasn't to glad about seeing it,
because from the ads I thought it would be bad, but boy was I surprised.
This movie was awesome.  Johnny Depp did an awesome job playing Jack
Sparrow.  The way he moved when he talked and stuff... really good
acting.
I love Orlando Bloom too!  I have never seen the lord of the Rings, and
this
was my first movie with Orlando Bloom.  He's a great actor.  I like the
way
this movie didn't get too romantic, like some movies that aren't meant to
be
romantic do.  Overall, this movie rocks!!!!

******
9 August 2003
5
I love pirate adventure and Curse of the Black Pearl seemed to have it
for
the first half hour or so... but as usual, Bruckheimer's bloated action
sequences with little substance or credibility quickly became exhausting.
Johnny Depp's performance is stand out. The rest of the cast is outshined
by
their costumes and makeup(Geoffrey Rush by his teeth). I could talk about
the basic lack of interest created by  expositions and explanations given
for every motive... but I do enjoy pirates and the 18th century fare so I
give it a 5/10.

******
8 August 2003
10

I TOTALLY LOVED IT!!! I love movies like that. I had one question tho, if
whoever touched the gold was cursed, when why wasn't Elizabeth Swann & Will
Turner cursed? They touched it. Or was it cuz they didn't take it from the
box. If anyone knows, plz tell me. My e-mail address is
tweetybrdbeck@yahoo.com But anyways. I TOTALLY LOVED IT!! Like I have
already said.

******
8 August 2003
10

When I first saw the trailers to this movie, I wasn't very interested
thinking that it was yet another pirate movie. But I was dragged by friends
to go watch it on opening night...and was I ever glad I did!!! This is such
an amazing movie! It's about 2.5 hours long but you don't even feel it.
Everything in the movie is related...there are no scenes that just come out
of nowhere. The character development is really good. I especially like the
character of Johnny Depp (as Jack Sparrow). His actions and his screen
presence is just amazing. Without a doubt, he steals the show as Captain
Jack Sparrow. His British accent is also very convincing. It is hilarious to
watch him on screen. He is perfect for that role. Orlando Bloom (as Will
Turner) is also very good as is Keira Knightely (as Elizabeth Swann). I was
half expecting the traditional 'maiden in distress' role for her but
surprisingly, her character is far from that. Geoffery Rush (as Capt.
Barbossa) is really good as well. The special effects in this movie are
amazing. Definitely a movie to watch this summer.

******
8 August 2003
8

When i saw the trailer i thought...no not another ghost
movie.
But i totally changed my mind since yesterday, when i watched the movie
in a
sneak preview.
Johnny Depp Rules as Jack Sparrow great acting!


******
8 August 2003
9

Since I have been on the ride 'Pirates of the Carribean' at both Disney
World Florida and Disneyland Paris I was very intrigued to see this movie
since it is an adaptation of this classic ride.It is absolutely great! Its nice to see something original for a change
rather than yet another sequel or 'superhero' movie. The sword fighting
sequences are wicked and the special effects of the cursed pirates add a
great eeriness to the film. All the cast are great but Johnny Depp
probably
steals the film in his hilarious portrayal of Captain Jack
Sparrow.This is a 12A in the UK and pretty suitable for everyone although I
wouldn't
recommend taking a child under 7 as they may find some of the scenes very
distressing. Don't miss this one!

******
8 August 2003
10

I thought Pirates of the Carribean was a GREAT movie, I'd give it more
than
a 10. Johnny Depp was awesomely funny and cute. It was very interesting,
and
full of adventure and comedy. The best movie of all time!! Pirates of the
Carribean has some scary, some funny, some adventurous parts. I truly
enjoyed watching it. Captain Jack Sparrow is Da Bomb!! I loved it. Go
watch
it, NOW!!!!

******
8 August 2003
9

Johnny Depp was great in this film.  The story was also very good.  I'm an
anti-Disney person, but I give them credit for this one.  I would have
rated
it a 10 if the movie wasn't so long.  The fight scenes were well done, but
they could have been shorter to save time in the movie.  What I loved most
was that the movie never stalled for some boring ass love story
plot.

******
8 August 2003
7

voted this movie as a 7, would have got a 9 from me if the special
effects
were better, when they came out in the moonlight the moved so strange and
awkward, I thought I saw Evil dead III or something
they could have made the moonlight scenes smother, way
smother.
first they come walking in a "normal" pace, then they suddenly take on
the
"zombie" pacethat were the only thing that I got annoyed at, it felt that they
released
the movie to soon...but this is a great movie I suggest you go and see it

******
8 August 2003
9

"Pirates" was an extremely well-made film. The cast alone is worth seeing
it. Depp, Bloom, and Rush all play their characters as if they were
pirates
themselves. This lengthy flick keeps you wanting more at all times. It has
everything needed to make a pirate movie great: Amazing ships, cruel
villians, valiant and brutal Britains, a beautiful woman, explosions, and
most importantly, savage pirates. "Pirates" is truly an excellent movie. I
certainly recommend it to any of you who love action, comedy, and romance
all in one.
Rating: 9 

******
8 August 2003
10

The first two thirds of this movie are superb. Depp is the perfect pirate
and the story is so excellently portrayed that time flies by. I became
totally engrossed in the film. Its one of the few recent epic summer
movies
to have anything more than eye candy sequences one after the other. The
only
improvement would be to reduce the length of the action sequences towards
the end.

******
8 August 2003
10

I went into this movie expecting a real good time, and the blissful
actings
of Johnny Depp ( Yours Truly ) and other cast members blew the monkey on
my
shoulder away! I have been waiting for a movie like this all summer, and I
am so glad it was this one. This movie had the right amount of Action (
mind
you, that is said with pryde ) the powerful feel of Adventure ( making me
feel the breeze on my face ) and the very classy and witty elegance of
Captain Jack Sparrow, and the very bashful apperance of Will Turner.Even though there were parts in the movie where all I wanted to do was
FastForward to Jack, Will, or Barbossa, the movie Pirates of the Caribbean
:
The Curse of the Black Pearl in all is a rewarding adventure for all ages.
Savvy? 10/10

******
8 August 2003
9

I've always been a sucker for swashbucklers and this one was fabulous! The
stunts were well-rehearsed and intricate, the love scenes good but not too
mushy, and there were a few twists that I didn't see coming (unusual for
me).
all in all, highly recommended.

******
7 August 2003
7

I was a little bit skeptical when my girlfriend and I went to see Pirates
of
the Caribbean...not being a big summer movie fan, I braced myself for huge
explosions with very little plot development and intelligence.  But I was
greatly surprised and genuinely riveted to the screen, especially to
Johnny
Depp's performance.  Had anyone else portrayed Jack Sparrow, the film
would
merely have been OK, but Depp gave the Captain a swagger that few could
achieve.  He walked, talked, and handled himself like a rock star (like
Keith Richards on a boat!) and provided humor not in fart jokes or lewd
behavior (generally the type of "comedy" seen in summer movies) but in
style
and voice inflection.  Is it an Oscar caliber film?  The answer is no, but
Pirates will still provide good, funny entertainment this summer season to
those who want to turn off their brains for a few hours and enjoy the
ride.

******
7 August 2003
7

I went to the Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl the
second week it opened. The theater was packed, which I found unusual since
the last movie we had gone to, The Matrix: Reloaded, was completely empty
except us. (I figured out why by the end of each)I had little interest in watching this movie going into the theater. I
figured it would be all action or boring plot.I'd have to say this movie was just the right mixture of action, comedy,
love, and fantasy, to make viewing a very pleasurable activity for all
ages.
Johnny Depp is great as a pirate, and the character is deep enough to make
me wish both leading men "got the girl" at the end of the movie. Too bad
there's only one leading woman.The authenticity of the dialogue, look, and feel of this movie is about
5/6
believable, but that's close enough. The special effects are pretty cool
and
they aren't overpowering the whole movie which is good. I thought the
casting was very well done also.The slight twist at the climax of the movie was almost unexpected.I just don't feel the father would have reacted that way at the very end.
Not in those days he wouldn't have... public hangings were a family
event...
But it does give the movie a somewhat happy ending.I went in thinking I would review this movie about a 2 out of 10, but once
I
started opening my mind to it, I came out rating this movie 7.5 out of 10.At least one good movie was made this year!


******
7 August 2003
10

this was the best most funny, and amazing movie it made the fight scenes
funny and the romance scenes even funnier it was great i loved johnny depp
in this film he was perfect!! so was orlando bloom holy poop it was great
i
went with my cousin and my sister and we laughed through the whole
thing!!!! u have to see this movie with the whole family its wonderful ha
ha
!! 10 stars guaranteed for everyone

******
7 August 2003
10

This movie is very entertaining. It doesn't take itself too seriously -
seemingly aware it is only based on a theme park ride - it's funny, and
very
watchable. It is a bit long, but I didn't mind. Depp is consistently
enjoyable in this film. Rush is excellent, as always. And, Bloom shows he
has some range - I look forward to seeing him in more challenging roles
in
the future. I liked that in the end, after all was said and done, there
really weren't any terribly "bad guys." It was simply a good time. Very
refreshing, swashbuckling, and clever. I will watch it
again.

******
6 August 2003
10

This is the best movie of the summer. Probably the best movie of the
year.Johnny Depp is awesome. The whole cast is great. This is a fun movie
for everyone. I will definitley buy this when it comes out on
dvd.10/10

******
6 August 2003
10

I have to admit it, I went to see it the first time because of Orlando
Bloom, but I went back the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th time because this is just
a
FREAKIN great movie. The graphics are amasing, Johnny Depp is HILARIOUS
and
Orlando and Keira are the perfect on screen couple....

******
6 August 2003
10

If your looking for movies that are worth watching, this is definitely one
of them. Not only does the movie show great visual effects but the music
in
it is totally awesome. The cast is a great group. Especially Johnny Depp.
No
one could have played the part of Jack Sparrow as good as him. I have seen
the movie twice and have been satisfied with it both times. I recommend
this
movie to all ages of people, and if you see it "Prepare to be blown out of
the water!"

******
6 August 2003
9

Johnny Depp is a master of "period accents."  Excellent comedic timing.
Orlando Bloom is an excellent complement.  The sword fight
in the smithy was a comic and choreographic gem.  Keira Knightley
was
easy on the eyes, to say the least.  Geoffrey Rush...well, Geoffrey Rush
was
ALMOST as good as Depp.  And the special effects, although not of the
BAM!
in your face variety, were nonetheless spectacular in subtle ways like
the
parting of clouds on a stark, moonlit night at sea.This movie was not just a ride on a boat; it was a trip...

******
5 August 2003
10

Alright, even if this movie had sucked -- if the script had been weak, the
special effect so-so, and the plot boring -- it still would've been worth
seeing.  Johnny and Orli are just fantastic -- what hot blooded girl
*couldn't* just watch them for two and a half hours?  Not to mention
Johnny's spectacular acting in this film -- he was brilliant.  But it
*was*
a good movie.  The script was wonderful.  The dialogue was absolutely
fabulous, so quick and witty.  The film was also visually stunning, a real
tribute to new movie-making technologies.  As for the sfx, I need only
point
to the underwater march.  Two very difficult elements -- cgi underwater
and
cgi skeletons, mastered simultaneously.  Overall, I think this is one of
the
best movies I've seen this year.  It certainly outshines the overhyped
Matrix: Reloaded and gives X2 a run for its money.  And neither of those
movies had Johnny or Orli.  ;)

******
5 August 2003
10

This Movie is excellent. I thought it would be good, but I was happily
surprised to see that it was excellent. I went to see it b/c of Orlando
Bloom who is also in Lord of The Rings movies. But I must say that Mr.
Depp
stole the show. The directors and actors did a wonderful job. What a great
story. I hope to see a sequel or two.

******
5 August 2003
8

Some people may be unfortunate to remember the 1995 Geena Davis/Renny
Harlin
disaster "Cutthroat Island," a bloated and stale attempt to revive an old
sub-genre, that of the swashbuckling adventure film.  Long dormant after
Errol Flynn and Douglas Fairbanks hung up their tights and rapiers, the
genre was due for a comeback.  Now, much like "Moulin Rouge!" and
"Chicago"
revitalized the sleeping form of the musical, pirate films have been
rediscovered in the form of "Pirates Of The Caribbean: The Curse Of The
Black Pearl."At a British colony in the Caribbean, Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley),
daughter to the governor, is being wooed by two men: the proper and stoic
naval officer Norrington (Jack Davenport) and the unassuming yet sincere
swordsmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom).  But courtship has to wait when
the
infamous pirate ship the Black Pearl, headed by the vile Barbossa
(Geoffrey
Rush), invades the colony and kidnaps Elizabeth.  Will's only hope to save
her is to free the Black Pearl's former captain, Jack Sparrow (Johnny
Depp),
a dangerously unstable and hardly trustworthy fellow.  Things are further
complicated when it turns out that the pirates have all been cursed for
stealing Aztec gold and that moonlight reveals their true state: that of
rotting corpses.This film is wonderfully entertaining.  All of the performers give
fantastic
performances, from Knightley's strong-willed and curious Elizabeth to
Bloom's resourceful and determined Will.  Plus, it's great to see Bloom
without elf ears.  The best performance by far is Johnny Depp, giving one
of
his wildest and strongest performances of his career.  His Captain Jack is
half-way between Keith Richards and insanity (which may not be too far),
an
amalgamation of swishes, slurred words, and blustery bravado.  Depp just
doesn't steal every scene he's in: he robs it at sword
point.The director has a hand for sweeping adventure, as well.  Gore Verbinski
is
best known for directing the supremely creepy "The Ring," and some of the
moody hand that guided that film is present here, as well.  But Verbinski
knows how to handle the genre and his actors very well, everything coming
together in a strong wind that sweeps the audience along with it.  The
movie
is full of characters but never overcrowded.  It is swarming with details,
but it is never tedious.  The script, like the film, hearkens back to the
witty repartee of early swashbuckler films, which may sound laughable on
paper but makes perfect sense coming out of the characters.The most striking thing about the film is the CGI involved in rendering
the
skeletal pirates.  While there are several scenes of fully-skeletal
pirates,
the most impressive use of this effect is during a fight in a cave, where
the pirates dart in and out of moon light with only part of their bodies
transformed.  After the offense to cinema that was "Star Wars Episode II:
Attack Of The Clones" and after seeing the fantastic effects WETA pulled
off
for "The Two Towers", I had lost faith in Industrial Light & Magic's
ability
to inspire wonder.  They have outdone themselves on this
picture.Despite the entertainment value of the film, there are a few minor
drawbacks.  At almost two-and-a-half hours, the film is slightly long and
could easily have been trimmed down by 30 minutes.  Similarly, several
minor
characters, such as Zoe Saldana's black female pirate Anamaria, are
intriguing and sadly underused.  These are minor complaints, however, and
they do not detract much from the overall enjoyment of the
film."Pirates of the Caribbean" is sure to inspire other directors to helm
their
own voyages into swashbuckling adventure.  Here's hoping that they all
turn
out to be as thrilling and enjoyable as this one.  9 out of
10.

******
5 August 2003
10

This movie has got to be the greatest summer flick that I have in a
while...
no, EVER!!!!  It's 4 main characters acted beautifully, and made their
parts
believable.  Johnny Depp (Captain Jack Sparrow) and Geoffrey Rush
(Captain
Barbossa) definatley deserve oscar nods!  A great film for kids, teens,
and
adults.  If you have not seen this film, then stop reading this comment
and
go see it!  You'll be glad that you did!!  Enjoy!!

******
5 August 2003
10

"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl"  Is the best
movie of the summer.  Whether you're a fan of Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom,
comedies, or action, You're sure to love this movie!  Johnny Depp
delivers
the comedic role of Captain Jack Sparrow, as Orlando Bloom delivers the
role
of Will Turner, a blacksmith in love with a wealthier young woman,
Elizabeth
Swann.  This movie is packed with comedy, suspense, and excellent acting.
It's a must see for all movie lovers.

******
5 August 2003
8

First of all I am a 44 year old male who cannot ever remember seeing a
pirate movie that I liked.  It is an engaging movie with good direction,
writing, costume and special effects.  The near 2 1/2 hours fly by with
good
pacing.  (Watch all the credits because there is a surprise at the end.)I would not say that I am fanatically attached to anyone involved in the
production.  I would say that it should be nominated for best costume and
special effects.  Johnny Depp gives a stellar performance but he is
unlikely
to be nominated for a film of this genre.  It is the first Disney film
that
I have liked since the Lion King and undoutedly the first nonanimated film
that I have liked by Disney since I was a child.  My wife also enjoyed the
film and our adolescent daughters did not think it was cool to go the film
with us, but I would suggest that it would be appropriate for most all
children over the age of 10.
It is a far superior form of entertainment compared to its namesake theme
park ride!I doubt that the Haunted Mansion can rise to this level when it hits the
screens at Thanksgiving.

******
5 August 2003
7

You have to love this movie. When I knew that this movie was coming into
theaters I knew I was going to love it just because it's a pirate movie.
This movie is what every summer movie should be about. It has action, a
lot
of laughs, a cute adventurous story and settings, and lots of fun. The
characters are just lovely, and Johnny Depp is just too hilarious. It was
worth watching this movie just because of his character and the way he
transformed himself into "Jack Sparrow." This priate is such a genuine
guy.
He is smart and funny, and above all good looking. He made me laugh every
time he said something.
This movie is so much better than Bad Boys II which I thought had a really
stupid plot. On top of that, it was too dragged out, and even though some
of
the scenes make you laugh, they are way too exaggerated to the point where
you stop laughing and wonder how easily amused the rest of the audience
can
be just because they sound like they are talking like to gay lovers in a
public record store while being filmed and while the rest of the people in
the store are watching them.
Well, anyway. Like I said, the cast was terrific, and this is now my
favorite adventure-movie. The fact that Jerry Bruckheimer produced this
movie helped in the creation of such a daring vision of a priate movie. I
don't think there is one action movie that I do not love by this guy.Pirates of the Carribean had spectacular special effects, and the
landscapes
that they chose to film on were just too beautiful. And Keira Knightley is
just one smokin' hot brunette. She has the most beautiful face in the
whole
wide world. I would have given anything to have been Will Turner at the
end
of their adventure.


******
4 August 2003
10

Beautiful acting, beatiful scenery, and beautiful direction grace this film.
I totally loved it. "Pirates" is probably my second or third favorite movie
ever. Johnny Depp shines as Jack Sparrow--"It's CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow--and
Orlando Bloom is good as Will Turner. Keira Knightley is not a great
actress, but she's hot and was pretty good in "Pirates."10 stars out of 10 for "The Pirates of the Caribbean." I can't wait for the
sequel!

******
4 August 2003
6

It's pure Disney.  A family fantastical adventure. That does not mean it is
a good film.  It's okay.  There is plenty of spectacle and color.  Johnny
Depp is fun but needs more material to work with.  He had a great character
but the script held him back. Geoffrey Rush had the same problem; not enough
material to explode off the screen.If you have ever been on the Disney Theme park ride Pirates of the Caribbean
then you can see the spin off.  The dog holding the chains as well as the
prisoners sticking their heads out the bars.  Novelty for sure.  There are
some beautiful shots of the ships.  The ghost ship, The Black Pearl was
beautiful to gaze upon with it's black torn sails and hull looming in the
fog. The film is full of edited fight scenes using quite a few close ups.  It's
all for fun and the audience seemed to enjoy the yarn.

******
4 August 2003
10

Probably the best movie I've seen this summer (well, this and Finding Nemo.)
 I came into it just to see Depp's Keith Richards impersonating, and I took
a lot more out of it than I ever thought I would.  Fun, fast-paced, with
interesting characters and a good storyline.  What more could you want from
a summer movie?  Honestly, it doesn't feel like you're sitting in a theatre
for 2 1/2 hours.  It probably could have been cut down by half an hour here
and there -- but the movie never dragged on or was boring.The acting was great!  Johnny Depp was incredible as always!  Geoffrey Rush
was very good, and Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom had great performances
also.  The movie has everything -- action, adventure, humor, romance.  Not to
mention nice special effects.  I was particularly impressed that the movie
wasn't sexist, either.  Keira Knightley's character kicked butt alongside
everyone else, and even the guys in the movie were held hostage at one point
or another.I can't wait for the sequel!  

******
4 August 2003
10

I went to this movie expecting the only good part to be Orlando Bloom.
Instead, I got the best plot for a movie since... well actually since
Lord
of the Rings, but that wasn't too long ago so it might not mean
anything;)
What I mean to say is, Pirates of the Caribbean is fabulous.  It is truly
what the word action packed was made for.  This movie is entirely
unpredictable with false endings all over the place.  Whenever you think
the
movie is about to end, it surprises you in ways unimaginable.  To add to
that, the casting was fabulous.  Johnny Depp was the star of the show,
portraying the crazed "Captain Jack Sparrow" ("That would have to be the
worst pirate I've ever heard of").  For being over 40, Depp was very good
looking as well;).  Geoffery Rush was perfectly casted as Captain
Barbossa
of the Black Pearl.  He created a perfect mix of a villain and a poor
tortured soul.  Keira Knightley played the part of Elizabeth Swann
wonderfully.  Lee Arenberg and Mackenzie Crook were incredible as the
goofy
pair of pirates Pintel and Ragetti, respectively.Okay, now onto Orlando Bloom.  While I love him dearly, he is clearly not
cut out for the hero role.  He plays a much better sidekick.  Still, he
played the part of Will Turner to the best of his ability, which is still
remarkable.  It is very obvious that playing the elf Legolas in the Lord
of
the Rings Trilogy has made him a much better actor.  Whenever there was a
fight scene he pulled out the Legolas moves he acquired while filming the
trilogy.  There's also the added bonus of him being so
hot!:)Having seen this movie 3 times, I hope you will take me as a credible
source, and go see this movie.  At the very least, rent it when it comes
out
on video.

******
4 August 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean has totally became one of the best movies of the
summer for many reasons.Johnny Depp was definitly the best choice to play Jack Sparrow, and the
performance from all the actors was astonishing. The sets and visual FX
where outstanding,... ILM should definitly get credit in the next academy
awards. The movie is very entertaining. It has out of this world action and a rich
love story. The pirates' performances are truly fantastic, giving the movie
a sense of what pirates were really like.The plot is overall fantastic, even
though the movie is based on Disney's theme park ride. but the movie truly
sticks to the origin of the story. Anyways, I truly recommend others that haven't seen it, to go have a good
time watching this movie.It is a blast. 10/10

******
4 August 2003
10

Okay, I have read some reviews from some 'highbrow' critics, punching holes
in the storyline, commenting on the FX and length of the movie, sniffing at
the 'over the top acting' - well folks, I normally don't enjoy movies at the
theatre, even sitting through them at home when they come out on DVD is
torture, (I can't sit still that long!) I am NOT a young female fan who went
to see the 'hotties', I have never been a Johnny Depp fan, I usually HATE
Disney movies, and I, like many, thought the Pirate film genre has had it's
day. So it was only a family birthday party that got me to this one in the
first place.Well, I am sure glad because I have never enjoyed anything so much in
years -  the acting, the scenery, the story, the costumes - all great fun!
I have seen it several times since and every time I see something I missed
before - and some of the so-called storyline holes and unexplained things
make sense once I saw it again.  This was great entertainment, pure and
simple, and although I don't know if I will like Johnny Depp in anything
else, he was THE MAN to play Jack Sparrow.  I heard he was given free rein
(although reluctantly at first) by the Powers That Be to flesh out this
character - that was their best decision because Jack Sparrow stole the
show.  Geoffrey Rush WAS the way I always picture a crusty old  Pirate
Captain, he did a great job.From 8 to 80 - enjoy this hilarious romp - I didn't expect the humor but it
works great!  And although I am sure the pompous imperial wizards of
Oscardom will not recognize this flick for anything except maybe costumes -
the music was excellent, Rush deserves a nod, and Johnny Depp deserves an
Oscar for this character's development.  Awesome job, buddy!!

******
4 August 2003
10

I'll admit when I first heard that a pirate movie was being made, I thought
it was going to be terrible.  Pirates of the Caribbean has changed my mind.
I think that Johnny Depp is unbelivable in his role as Captain Jack Sparrow.
I think the character is awesome, I think the plot is outlandish ... but its
a Pirate movie.  The effects are incredible as well.  Overall, the film is
definatly on my top ten list.

******
4 August 2003
10

Disney has once again this summer outdone themselves. 'Pirates' is the
first
pirate movies in about 40 years that has done well- this movie has lifted
the 'pirate's movie curse' so to speak. This is one of the best movies ive
ever seen. It has WELL DONE sword fights, romance, humor, curses, speacial
effects, and most of all Johnny Depp. He has waited 40 years for an
oportune
movie like this to show what he does best. He steals the show and you
leave
wanting more of him. THe movie just fits so well together you just want to
be there in the middle of all the action; and thats what great movies are
about. 5/5 bravo disney, verbinski, bruckhiemer, and johnny ;)
bravo.

******
4 August 2003
7

This was not a Errol Flynn or Tyrone Power sea story, but it was
entertaining.  Johnny Depp gives a good performance, as only Depp can do.
The photography was very well done although the story was a little
dragged
out.  This one could wait for DVD or VHS.

******
3 August 2003
10
I saw this film on it's opening night. I do not think I have
ever
been so pleased with a film. It had all the classic elements of a great
film. Action, Adventure, Romance, and rather exquisite looking leading
man...The performances in the film were absolutely Superb. Johnny
Depp
has proven once and for all that he is one of the greatest actors of the
film era. He carries this movie with ease. His method of acting is
unprecedented. The rest of the cast reigned supreme as well.The special effects were done wonderfully.  There were moments
when you truly felt for the characters. The script was perfect. It had
very
comical moments, and scenes filled with action. I will definitely see
this
movie again. 

******
1 August 2003
10

A pirate's life for ME!  This movie was truly a FUN ride!  Okay, enough
shouting.  See this movie; it works on all the great movie-making levels. 
Depp was magnificent - as naturally anyone would imagine that knows his
work.  I'm jealous I'm not him, but that's between me and my therapist to
work out.  Bloom shows just as much skill in his craft as in Lord of the
RIngs, and it always seems to work for him that his characters are masters
of their trade.  He just has that look of wisdom beyond his years... I
guess.  Knightley... quite a different role than 'Bend it Like Beckam' but
also a good strong female role. And she succeeds to be the damsel in
distress that can kick some butt.  Disney delivers as only it can and WATCH
for some scenes from the actual disney ride.  Brought back those childhood
memories from my favorite in Disney and now this:  my favorite DIsney film. 
I wasn't sure if i was going to mean that, but I really do.  I just hate it
when people build up a movie, getting my expectations so high, so I'll try
to restrain.  Great cast.  Smooth direction.  Disney elements (music, fun,
and plot).  And Jack Sparrow ROCKS as the pirate character in this film.  10
out of 10 for this MUST see.thank you

******
1 August 2003
8

This movie is GREAT! Depp has depth and he proves it wonderfully in this
film. I think that Depp is a very good actor who has come a long way in his
career. I have admired him since he did "Edward Scissorhands" which is still
one of my favorite movies. Anyhoo, Orlando Bloom did a good job as Bootstrap
but I don't see why all these girls think he's so hot. Oh well, his love
interest is the one that's REALLY HOT!!! Keira Knightley completely lights
up the screen when she's doing her thing. Okay enough about the actors, back
to the movie. The movie has a great story and it sails like the Loveboat
without as much love. It has great pacing and the costumes and CG are
awesome as well! YOU GOTTA SEE THIS PICTURE!!! Ahoy mateys, the ship's going
to sail and it's time to wail!!!!

******
1 August 2003
10

This movie was the BEST MOVIE EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Johnny Depp & Orlando
Bloom were amazing in their roles of Captain Jack Sparrow & Will Turner.
This movie has everything; Comedy, Action, Adventure, Romance. Everyone
should go and see this movie!

******
1 August 2003
8

This movies is a blast. Rush & Depp are perfect. Depp's acting takes this
movie to a whole different level. The picture is always nice to look at
and
the story is good. One flaw - it is too long. Why would any director take
a
commercial piece like this and allow it to stretch over 2 hours, let alone
nearly 2 & 1/2 is beyond me. I can see Terry Gilliam wanting to hold out
for
a masterpiece like Brazil or Peter Jackson's Lord of the Rings due to it's
very detailed plot, but come one, this is supposed to be light
fare.

******
1 August 2003
9

this movie was perfect.  there wasn't a single thing i didn't like.  the
cast was great, the story was great, the action was incredible.  of
course,
it's not a sweeping epic like goe with the wind or even star wars, but
who
cares?  it was entertaining to the max

******
1 August 2003
8

This is a pretty good movie. Not as i expected. I highly recommend this
movie if you like Pirate movies. Johnny Depp plays an excellent pirate in
this movie. The cast is great including Orlando bloom as the pirate turned
good.

******
1 August 2003
10

If you are a fan of Johnny Depp, this is a must see movie for you!
Honestly, as an actress I was blown out of the water (no pun
intended). Johnny Depp lights up the screen as Captian Jack
Sparrow. He is a character you instantly love! I have never seen
Johnny Depp do a bad acting job, and believe me this is no
exception. Granted the movie is a little long, but all of the time is
well used, and there for an inportant reason. Poor Orlando Bloom
was a bit out of his league, but fantastic none the less. Keria
Knightley is fantastic and so is Geoffry Rush. There is not one
thing I could say about this movie, but GREAT! I was entertained
the whole way through, and Johnny Depp kept me laughing. I
swear, he is the only man in Hollywood who can wear eye liner
and still look like a bad ass! If you wish to become an actor this is
a movie you have to see!

******
1 August 2003
10

This was a fun adventure from start to finish!  There were many nods to
great pirate films of the past (The Crimson Pirate comes immediately to
mind) and the story enough fresh twists to keep us on the edge of our
seats
to the end.  Highly recommended, you'll want to see it
again!

******
1 August 2003
9

Wow! This was the first movie produced by Disney to be given a PG-13
rating
and I think that was a great move on Disney's behalf. This movie combined
awesome visual effects, a great plot, quarky actors, and a killer
soundtrack
to make one heck of a movie. I've fallen in love with Disney again, and
I'm
sure you will too, after seeing the movie! 9/10

******
1 August 2003
9

this movie was perfect.  there wasn't a single thing i didn't like.  the
cast was great, the story was great, the action was incredible.  of
course,
it's not a sweeping epic like gine with the wind or even star wars, but
who
cares?  it was entertaining to the max

******
31 July 2003
8

     Just saw it last night and I've got to say, what a fun movie!  Lots of
humor and adventure, an interesting (if at times overly-convoluted) plot,
and an over-the-top performance by Johnny Depp, who unquestionably carries
the film.  I have heard that Depp consciously modeled his performance on
Keith Richards, remarking that pirates were the rock stars of their day. 
Well, it works like gangbusters!  The support is good too, though nowhere
near Depp's level.  And the female lead is certainly easy on the eyes.  The
special effects, particularly as regards the ghost pirates, are good as
well.  Overall, this is the kind of film you can just sit back and enjoy,
without having to think too much if at all.  And well worth the time and
money at a first-run theater.  Hell, I had so much fun watching it that I
didn't even mind the blatant Disney commercialism underlying the
venture...

******
31 July 2003
6

I agree with the ohter reviewers who said Johnny Depp made the movie.  The
rest of the cast put forth mmemorable performances.  I give it a 7/10 but
without Depp I can see it possibly garnering a 5 or 6.  I liked Keira
Knightley in "Bend It Like Beckham" but she didn't do anything for me in
this one--though she "looked" stunning :)  Orlando Bloom need something. 
Maybe more engergy or a enthusiasm, I'm not sure.Some of the fight scenes got a little silly but for the most part they were
concise and not too drawn out.  However, one idea did strike me as odd.  If
the bad pirates could not be killed because they were undead...then why
didn't the good characters help them lift curse, thereby taking away their
"powers" and making them mortal?  Anyway, if you like the big screen see it
now.  If not, wait for it to be on cable.

******
31 July 2003
8

Firsth thing i thought when i first heard when about this movie was that
this will be just a usual action. Action like those we watches every week.
I
saw many movies for pirates before. When i firsth saw it... It was much
better than i expected. I gave it 8/10 cuz it was predictable at moments.
Fight scenes mostly, and some of them was too long (that scene with Will
and
Jack in Will's working place for example). Music was excellent.

******
31 July 2003
10

This was by far one of the best movies I've seen in a very long time.
Orlando Bloom is so hot, even with long hair. Not only that but he is a
great actor with an even better future. Johnny Deep was great as Jack
Sparrow and I loved his representation of a pirate. Orlando's character,
Will Turner, is the perfect man. Sweet, caring, kind, passionate, strong,
dependable, his own man, and a skilled craftsmen and swordsman. If only I
could find a guy like that. I was really impressed that Keira Knightley's
character, Elizabeth Swann, was portrayed as such a strong and independent
person. Usually female characters in movies set in this era are displayed
as
weak and in need of a man to save her from every little problem. And while
Elizabeth did need some rescuing she didn't just stand by and wait for it
to
happen. She helped in the fighting and even at one point even did the
rescuing of herself and Jack. This is a great movie that left wanting to
see
it again even as I left the theater. This is one movie I will definitely
buy
as soon as it is released.

******
31 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is a swashbuckling adventure in the flavor
of
the Golden Days of Hollywood. It took me back to the days of Errol Flynn
in
"Captain Blood." It had plenty of the high seas action, just enough creepy
mystery and a healthy dose of contemporary humor.
I agree that Johnny Depp stole the film with his memorable approach
to
Captain Sparrow. But, it was only because he made such brave acting
choices
that he rises above this otherwise gifted cast. Everyone is cast perfectly
and the director sets the tone beautifully from beginning to
end.
The real hero, however, in this film is the script. It launches us on
a
hair-raising voyage full of intrigue, conflict, false bravado, and
laughter
that doesn't let up until the final frame. How rare that a film is both
entertaining and family friendly in the tradition of the old adventure
classics!

******
30 July 2003
10

This movie is great! Johnny Depp is so funny as pirate Captain Jack Sparrow.
 
Orlando Bloom is very romantic as Will Turner the blacksmith. Geoffrey is so
evil 
as the skeleton Captain Barbosa. Keira Knightley is gorgeous and she doeswell in the movie as Elizabeth Swann, daughter of Governor Swann(JonathanPryce who is always good). You've got to see it. Don't let the fact that thedistributor is Walt Disney stop you. This movie is rated PG-13. As a matter
of fact 
this is the first PG-13 movie that was released by Disney rather than
Touchstone 
which is connected to Disney and has always released the high budget adultfilms that Disney produces.  

******
30 July 2003
7

I thought this was a great movie. It was good to see Depp in a film that
wasn't so gothic or dark like his past films; Sleepy Hollow, The Ninth
Gate
and From Hell. Those were all good movies, but I was happy to see him in
something more comical. Geoffrey Rush did a great job as the villianous
captain, and Orlando Bloom had a nice follow up outside of the Lord of the
Rings trilogy. The only thing slightly negative I can say about this film,
is that it was a tad bit long. Other than that last half hour, I thought
it
was a wonderful flick.

******
30 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp was awesome in this movie. The movie makers could not have
selected a more perfect pirate. I didn't know what to expect but it was
funny, clever and the special effects were excellent, a little spooky but
not to scary. A must see for the whole family.

******
30 July 2003
10

I don't understand how critics cannot give this a better rating than they
have.  I haven't had this much fun at a movie since "Lord of the Rings:
Fellowship of the Ring" (all-time favorite movie, by the way).  Johnny
Depp,
an unexpected surprise, makes the film, and the all-star cast along with
him
just makes things even better.  Twists and turns in the plot are more
numerous than the Disney ride itself, and I am amazed that the script
writers created such a genuine article from just a ride!  By the way, go
buy
the soundtrack now!  I haven't heard music like this for a long
time!

******
30 July 2003
9

The movie was a lot of fun, though it dragged on for about a half-an-hour
too long, and the ending seemed altogether unrealistic.  Most of the
fight
scenes were too long and I had a hard time believing that mortal sailors
could give undead pirates such an extended fight.  And the ending
should've
had Bloom and Knightley joining Depp as he sailed away with his new
ship.
But all that aside, Johnny Depp gives his best performance since Donnie
Brasco as the wild, crazy, and slightly effeminate Jack Sparrow.
Throughout
the film he's incredibly funny and he obviously had a lot of fun with the
part.
The rest of the cast, for the possible exception of Geoffry Rush who
shines
as the villain, isn't anything special, but at the same time there's
nothing
really to complain about.  Knightley is definite eye candy, but wasn't
that
believable, and Bloom does a good job(just not Legolas
good).
Overall the film was exciting and you should definitely see it, if only
for
Depp's performance.    

******
30 July 2003
7

FIRST IMPRESSIONI dont know about you, but I've been on Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean
ride probably a dozen times.  Its a classic, and in some ways the new
blockbuster hit, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl,
is
one as well.SUMMARYBasically, Johnny Depp plays Jack Sparrow, a cunning and smooth-talking
pirate who seems like he might have spent a little too much time at sea.
After the governor's daughter gets kidnapped by an odd gang of pirates,
who
have been sailing on the mythical Black Pearl, it is up to Jack and a
courageous blacksmith to not only save the kidnapped girl but also
prevent
the crew of the Black Pearl from destroying the curse that plagues
them.ACTING: 93%Truthfully, I wasnt a big fan of Johnny Depp.......until now.  He is
terrific in this movie.  His smooth, humorous words and his somewhat
drunken
stature make his original pirate character into a full scale movie of its
own.  In some respects, I dare say, he made this film.  But, all the
other
actors, including Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush, are top notch and
worthy
of praise.  Still, its Johnny Depp who lights up the screen, and
everytime
he enters a scene, the movie is somewhat enhanced and ultimately more
enjoyable.  All in all, great acting all around.STORY: 75%Moderately good story.  I mean its nothing epic or rather new, but its
decent for an action movie.  Usually in a standard action flick, the
plots
follow a set pattern.  The bad guys steal something, and the good guys
set
off to take it back.  "Pirates" follows the same premise.  One thing I
didnt
like about the story, and this is a big chunk of the story actually, was
why
did Jack and Will Turner want to stop the pirates of the Black Pearl from
breaking their curse?  I mean, once the curse is broken, they become
mortal
men.  So, the danger of walking skeletons with the intent to kill would
be
over.  And it wasnt like they were going to kill Will Turner over the
coins;
they just needed his blood.  They knew and the audience knew that a
simple
cut would have sufficed.  Decent story, with that one big fault in the
story.DIRECTION: 85%When a high scale action blockbuster comes out, you know its probably a
Michael Bay film or a Jerry Bruckheimer film.  In this case, its a
Bruckheimer film, and he doesnt disappoint.  The shots of the battling
ships
floating around in the fog and the smoothness of the transition of the
pirates to skeleton are all perfect.  The shots of the beaches and palm
trees also bring out a certain feeling of being stranded on a deserted
island, with nothing to do but fish.FUN FACTOR: 85%One of the things that plagued this film slightly is its length.  At 133
minutes, the sword fighting got a little boring towards the end.  But,
nonetheless, the rest of the movie, especially the beginning is totally
engrossing and I would have to say "Pirates" is one of the more
entertaining
movies of the year.FINAL IMPRESSION  ---84%With its exciting action sequences, the humor of Johnny Depp, and the
excellent shots of the town and ships at sea, Pirates of the Caribbean is
one movie definetly worth your time in the theater.  Oh, and did I
mention
Johnny Depp?

******
30 July 2003
10

but those whiners that are slamming this movie on imdb have missed the
point
by such a wide margin that you either have to question their sanity or
their
intelligence.The sword fights weren't violent enough or well choreographed enough for
you? Suck it up, it's a Disney movie, it's meant to be suitable for kids.
What were you expecting? Blade?You could tell the CGI was CGI? Nice going there Sherlock Holmes. Here's a
hint for you: walking undead skeletons don't exist, of course it was going
to be CGI.You disagree with the method for boarding a ship? Oh give us a break, it
was
supposed to be a comedic moment.You thought the acting was over the top? You people need your heads
checked.
It is supposed to be a fun movie based on a fun ride in a fun park. Grow a
sense of humor or just keep your uninformed and negative comments to your
miserable and sourpuss selves. If you wanted Training Day or Schindler's
List, you should have rented them.For those of you who have not seen this movie, go and see it. It is
probably
the most fun swashbuckling movie since Raiders of the Lost Ark and
provides
a very enjoyable evening's escapism. If you want to see a feature full of
gritty realism, go and see one.

******
30 July 2003
10

Though this movie has been alternately panned and praised, there are a few
things for certain.  It will never win any big Oscars, and it is very
enjoyable.
There's a little bit of everything for everyone in this movie.  For those
in
the audience who love women, Keira Knightley is beautiful and talented, if
somewhat a little too close to looking JUST like Natalie Portman.  For
bad-boy lovers (even if only hormonally), Johnny Depp is a wonderful
choice,
and for those of you who like the boy next door, Orlando Bloom keeps up
his
star-power with a pretty face, and he does well with what little he's
given
to do.
Johnny Depp positively steals this movie.  For Depp fans, it's been a
while
since we've seen him stretch his proverbial wings.  This role is not only
fun, it's quirky, and quirks can be darned hard to portray.  He does a
fantastic job capturing the audiences' imaginations, not to mention the
occasional mind, heart, and oh my yes, set of hormones.
I was disappointed in Geoffrey Rush's performance; it seems bizarre that
the
man who played "twisted" so well in "Quills" could put forth such a
mediocre
bad-guy in this film.
One thing I did find disappointing was the LACK OF CHARACTERIZATION AND
PLOT
given to Will and Elizabeth.  It hardly seems fair that we are told
nothing
of what happened to them between childhood and adulthood.  C'mon... give
us
at least something.  Nonetheless, their respective portrayers did well
with
what little they had.
All in all, it was good entertainment.  I recommend it.

******
30 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp was awesome and I had actually swore I would never watch a
movie
with him in it at From Hell, but thank God my daughter loves Orlando
Bloom.
This was the best movie I have seen this summer and I have seen a lot of
them.

******
29 July 2003
8

First of all, I really wasn't expecting to be impressed with this movie,
even though I am a Johnny Depp fan. Most movies this summer have have been
pretty bad, most notably, Bad Boys II.  Jack Sparrow was always two steps
ahead of everyone, and I really liked the way that the story tellers didn't
reveal was his wily plans were until they came into fruition.  The casting
was dynamite, as was the cinematography, writing, humor, and set decoration.
 If I were to raise some of the films weaknesses, I'd say that 1) It was
probably too long and had at least one too many endings, 2) some of the
violence was a little too graphic,in particular, the slicing of throats and
when the British navy troops were run through the sternum with swords.  I
might also have editted out the crying child when the pirates plundered.  It
was a little too realistic.  The denoument was a little drawn out, but i
like the way that even though the damsel's finance was written as unlikable,
they didn't cliche him and make him into the scorned rejected villain. But
all in all, I definitely recommend this movie.  Maybe the sequel will be a
little more family-friendly, but still, I endorse this film as
sequel-worthy.

******
29 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, in a word FANTASTIC!
 Great story, great performances, great cinematography, and eyepopping
special effects combine for a pirate adventure like never before.  Do
yourself a favor, go see this movie, you won't be disappointed!  I could
have easily sat through another consecutive viewing!

******
29 July 2003
8

Over the past few years, summer movies have been fairly drab, dull and
boring. Alas this is no more. Pirates of the Caribean is the most fun
i've
had in a long time at the movies. It had action, adventure and comedy.
Johnny Depp did a brilliant two and a half hour impersonation of Keith
Richards. He steals the show from Orlando Bloom as Jack sparrow. To make
matters worse for Orlando Bloom, Geoffery Rush as Captain Barbossa was
brilliant. To top the whole movie off, the blend of comedy and action was
great. There came a point where i was reminded of Monty Python, with the
two
British guards who were talking about "the ship with black sails". Kiera
Knightley was good too, she was a damsel who wasn't exactly in distress
all
the time, she could fend for herself.

******
29 July 2003
10

W/out Johnny Depp, I probably would have given the movie about a "5".
It's
got a lot of action, good special effects and good actors.  Until seeing
this movie my vote for number one movie character was Hannibal Lector.
Depp's portrayal of Jack Sparrow has just bumped off the cannibal.  Some
may
think the following is a ridiculous statement, being the kind of movie it
is, but I think Depp should be nominated for an Oscar for this.
Brilliant.
I've seen the movie twice and planning on number three this
week.

******
29 July 2003
9

This movie is not a masterpiece... but its a fun movie. Definitely worth
watching on a big screen. The plot is simple and predictable... its an
adventure movie, we know where things will end, but the ride itself is
fun.
There's humor all over... sometimes subtle (nice touch). Special effects
are
very good. Depp's character is a treat to watch. Its unfortunate that
once a
movie gets so much attention, people become very critical... almost like
they feel they have to dissect every detail and show the rest of us why
we
are wrong in thinking that the movie is good. I say... check it out, and
play along. 

******
29 July 2003
10

All I can say is thank goodness. Something for everyone and a true family
adventure. For mom there is Jack Sparrow - wow!! Teenage girls will love
Bloom, the boys have a pretty girl to look and the younger boys like the
evil monkey! It's swashbuckling, clean fun that never stops entertaining.
Visually stunning, fun, humorous and very Princess Bride"esque"... Like
the
Bride it has everything...Love, sword fights, War, Comedy, Giants (well
sort
of)  well you get the picture. Saw it twice in the theatre and the only
regret is that I can't purchase the soundtrack, although I intend to bug
Disney relentlessly until I can. Best movie of the season for sure and
will
be added to the top 100 best of all time and of course to my ever growing
DVD collection. 

******
29 July 2003
10

I loved the movie so much I could see it every day! Johnny Depp was
hilarious! His facial expressions in this movie were so funny. Orlando
Bloom
is so hot!!!!! He also, like Depp, did a wonderful acting job. The
fighting
scenes were entertaining like the rest of the movie. I loved it when Depp
and Bloom were fighting. It looked so real. Orlando Bloom, was so cute
when
he was fighting, his face I cant get enough of.
I would not give that movie a rating less then 10! They did an awesome
job.
Love,
Bearroo89 

******
29 July 2003
10

This movie is the best movie ever!!! It does the ride justice. It is
twisted
in humor all the way through. Disney did a great job. Nobody could have
played Captain Jack Sparrow like Johnny Depp did; He truly made Captain
Jack
Sparrow what he was. Orlando Bloom was the right person to play Will
Turner.
Keira Knightley played Ms. Swann perfectly, and Geoffrey Rush was great
as
Captain Barbossa. Every one I have talked too has given their highest
ratings!! This is a MUST SEE MOVIE!

******
29 July 2003
10

***CONTAINS SPOILERS***
This movie... well, it's so good I can't even begin to explain it. I may
begin with saying that Johnny and Orli look awesome in it. The scene
where
Sparrow first appears is just wonderful, on his sinking boat.Johnny's acting is perfection in this movie. So far I have seen it 5
times,
soon to be six, and it is wonderful.
Keira Knightley is excellent, and Geoffrey Rush is great as Barbossa.In my opinion, Pirates of the Caribbean is flawless. I usually hate
violent
movies, but for some reason I love it in this movie. Probably because
when
they stab the people and stuff, there's not much blood and you rarely see
the bodies, especially at the end.
The casting for this movie is perfect, and nobody else could ever play
the
characters. Jack Sparrow is hilarious, and he makes the movie a comedy.
Without him, the movie would be a lot less wonderful, but still
good.
I think the best thing about this movie is that there are few curse
words,
therefore making it okay for younger people. Although it is violent, like
I
said before there is little blood and few bodies shown.Another good thing about this movie is, well, I sometimes feel akward
when
dramatic moments occur, and in this movie, even the most dramatic moments
can remain pleasurable.
This movie is brilliant, and I highly recommend it to people of *all*
ages.
I give it a million thumbs up! A 100 out of 10!

******
28 July 2003
7

Without Johnny Depp this movie would be nothing.  Seriously.  Mediocreplot.  Mediocre direction.  Between an hour and a half hour too
long.But it does have Johnny Depp.  I'll tell ya, I don't know of anothermovie where so much success can be attributed to a single person.  Deppis incredible.  He is a glam rock star in a pirate's body.  Hisperformance is entirely genuine.  It's incredible.  His performance isso brilliant that for the Academy to ignore him would be an absolutetravesty. (as much as something in Hollywood can be)It's basically like this... if Depp isn't nominated for his performancein this movie, it will show exactly how out of touch the Academy iswith mainstream America.This movie is definitely worth seeing.  Although it's not my favoritemovie of this year (I would place it behind T3 and X2) it is veryentertaining, and Depp's performance alone is worth the price ofadmission.  Drink up me hearties yo ho!

******
28 July 2003
10

this movie appeals to many audiences. its quite witty and has a star
studded
cast. Its story line, while not superb is very unique and is very
entertaining! orlando bloom is endearing, but its johnny depp that'll make
you come back to see the movie again and again.

******
28 July 2003
6
I don't really see what the big deal was about this movie. It starts
out promising, but I was pretty bored throughout the last 40 minutes.I will admit that all sets, props, and costumes were done with
painstaking detail. The pirates are a colorful, entertaining lot.
Acting was okay; Depp was amusing, and fake-Winona was nice eye candy.
There are some wickedly funny moments, but plenty of stale one-liners
and repeat gags as well. They are the kind of cheap shots at humor that
can be sure to have the audience rolling on the floor as long as the
movie has already roped them in by then.The ending is naturally cheesy and draws out for way too long. Although
not as bad as some, Pirates still had plenty of plot holes for a party
pooper like myself to pick at.***SPOILERS***- when one ship boards another, as the English did when chasing Sparrow
and Turner, do they really send EVERY SINGLE PERSON over to the other
ship? Wouldn't it make sense to keep at least a handful of people on
your own ship?- Why did Sparrow steal a coin from the trunk near the end of the
movie? In the end, it just needs to be tossed back in anyway. Was it
just so that he could whip it out for drama's sake? "Ah ha! I stole
this coin!"- If Sparrow had been under the curse the whole time, then wouldn't he
also suffer from the lack of sensory pleasure? He certainly still
enjoyed rum.- I had thought that the heroes would break the curse right as the
pirates were walking along the bottom of the sea (a very neat scene, by
the way). They would have all instantly become mortal and then
immediately drown. I was disappointed when they instead waited another
30 minutes, let the ghost pirates kill several dozen people first,
fought the immortal pirates themselves for another 10 minutes, and THEN
broke the curse. A blown opportunity for a neat ending.***END SPOILERS***The special effects were good, but that's not enough nowadays to carry
a movie.I was trying to figure out how this movie pulled off an IMDb 8 out of
10. Here's my theory: the promotions for Pirates successfully scared
off the vast majority of would-be critics. The trailers and ads had
Disney and BRUCKENHEIMER splashed all over, and that was enough to
insure that only the sure-sells would actually pay to see it in a
theater. I am predicting that Pirates will not age very well, and the
rating will slip over time down to about 7.Overall, I give Pirates a 6 / 10: worth seeing at least once. Perhaps I
am outgrowing the action, adventure genre.

******
28 July 2003
10

Depp is genius and Rush is brilliant! Together they beguile and devour
bringing piracy to a new level! This movie is a must see. Orlando Bloom
and
Keira Knightly were respectably enjoyable, but Capitan Jack Sparrow stole
the show and has set the stage. An affront no less, should he not be
acknowledged for his portrayal in this role.Having been a Depp fan for years, it is no secret that Mr. Depp is truly
gifted.  My personal definition of an unparalleled, bravura actor is
undoubtedly the often, disregarded Johnny Depp. This film is certainly
evident of his talents (treasures, have you) proving you can't judge a man
by his charcoal.Great film, great effects, great cast! Phenomenal job Mr. Depp and Mr.
Rush!
I'm enchanted once again. You two are magnificent!

******
27 July 2003
9

It's bizarre, if you think about it.Millions of people are crowding theaters to see a movie about pirates - that
famously dead genre that nonetheless gets resurrected by a studio executive
every few years, to the same crushing defeat.  Yet "Pirates" is slipping by
minor percentages each week in the box office, outperforming sure-fire
blockbusters that opened after it did, and garnering repeat viewings in what
must be record numbers.How did this happen?Start with two brilliant character actors who are both over-the-top and yet
utterly within character, and who shine in equal measure when they share the
screen: Johnny Depp and the not-oft-enough-mentioned Geoffrey
Rush.Add the archetypal forbidden romance between members of different social
caste, who have loved one another since childhood and yet are destined to be
apart.Throw in a swashbuckling score, plenty of well-executed swordplay, great
special effects and enough humor to keep all the melodrama from eliciting
groans.These are the elements of a box office phenomenon.For those of us who look for more in our movies than "that was fun", there's
plenty to keep us in our seats (or get us back in our seats, as was the case
with me):The story is intricate, the legend well-developed and fully explained, and
the execution consistent.  I've heard every question raised pertaining to
the plot of this film, and every one of them is answered within the film.  I
think those subtle details get missed because there's not a tremendous
amount of exposition - which would bog down the movie's pace.  Instead,
other than a comic diatribe describing the curse of the Black Pearl, we must
get our information in bits and pieces, paying close attention to the movie
throughout the entire running time.  This is the hallmark of screenwriters
who care, and who participated in the movie's development.  It is also the
result of a director who cares about story, and who insisted on getting it
right all the way through.In addition, there are moments of brilliant and unusual cinematography that
keep the otherwise-tedious swordplay interesting.  Watch the first
swordfight between Will and Jack for all the background set details, the
movement of the machinery in the blacksmith's shop, and the camera angles. 
Later, when the curse is in full evidence, the seamless special effects
provide visual spice throughout the longer sequences.On second viewing, the score was a bit heavy-handed (though nowhere near the
constant amusement-park calliope of the "Harry Potter" films), and really,
it's allowed - we must remember that this film is in part an homage to the
ride at the Disney theme parks, and the music is a great way to give a nod
to that feeling.I'll agree that the final 20 minutes or so of the film lag a wee bit -
there's one more skeleton-pirates-fighting-melee scene than I personally
needed, and everything after that is clearly set up for a sequel.  But I
won't say I didn't enjoy those 20 minutes, nor can I point to any single
part of them that I think the film would have been better
without.I'm a movie buff, but I'm picky.  This one will be in my collection, and
frequently re-watched, when the DVD comes out.  And I have this funny
feeling I'll be back to the theater again before it leaves the big screens. 
9/10

******
27 July 2003
7

From the first scenes with Depp's Captain Jack Sparrow, you know this is a
movie meant for fun.  Sparrow is not serious and brooding, nor is he
portrayed as a typical action hero.  He's quick on his feet to be sure, and
fast thinking as well.  But he's also bumbling and prone to mishap.  He's a
*delight*.You see the Commodore, played by Jack Davenport, and you immediately expect
the tired "self-righteous pompous person of authority" stereotype... but
they don't use it.  Norrington turns out to be decent and honorable which is
another refreshing change.Even the undead pirates are presented in a humorous (not comical) light,
rather than serious horror.  That's a testament to the skill of director
Verbinksi who certainly knows how to do horror (see: The Ring), for the
undead are shown in full rotting, guts-bared glory.  Yet, like the rest of
the film, they are elevated into adventuresome fun.As for the story itself, Pirates is fair.  This is an adventure film, and to
try to make more of it is to recognize its failings.  Popular film for a
long time now has glorified the wrong things.  Evil over good, etc.  Pirates
doesn't do any better here, but at least it's not heavy
handed.Remember, this is a "summer movie".  That has come to mean action over
story, style over substance and lots of adrenaline.  Pirates succeeds well
here.  As with most "adrenaline movies", you won't remember many details
afterwards but you will be left with a sense of enjoyment and satisfaction. 
Pirates won't make you think, but that's the point.7 out of 10.

******
27 July 2003
10

What an enjoyable movie for my whole family!  I can't remember the last
time
my wife, our kids, and myself enjoyed a movie more.  Johnny Depp as
Captain
Sparrow was fantastic.  His characterization made the movie a truly fun
"ride".  Fun too was catching the director's references to Disney's park
ride in the movie. 

******
27 July 2003
10

Pirates was one of the better movies I've seen in awhile - not only was
the
cinematography great and the special effects amazing, the acting left
nothing to be desired.The plot was gripping and left me wanting more - 2 hours is fairly long
for
a movie, but I could have sat through 2 more hours and loved every minute
of
it. A great blend of action, adventure, and comedy.The fight scenes were beautifully choreographed and exciting, with the
final
battle leaving most of the audience cheering and clapping, not to mention
laughing, going from skeleton back to human again.Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow was amazing, his facial expressions and
mannerisms really made the character one of a kind.
Unfortunately, Orlando Bloom did leave much to be desired (not in a good
sense, ladies)- good looks aren't everything. Geoffrey Rush makes a great
pirate, and Keira Knightly did a good job in more of a lack-luster role
compared to the others.All in all, a flick that left me wanting to see it again and again. This
is
one movie that'll never be boring to watch, even after you've seen it a
hundred times.

******
27 July 2003
10

I recently saw "Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl." The
movie blew me away with its outstanding character range and extremely
amusing plot. I couldnt have asked for anything better. Im my mind this
is
the Movie of the Year! Go see it NOW!

******
27 July 2003
10

Please do not listen to the people that say it is awful, they do not know
what is great and no doubt they don't have much fun in their lives.  So
you
kind of have to feel sorry for them, because they are so miserable they
can't enjoy a fun movie like this!  So to those that have not seen it, go
see it!  It's a really fun movie, and just very entertaining.  Everyone
in
the movie played their part so well.  I can't wait to see the
sequel!

******
27 July 2003
9

this could be the summers best movie almost beating  T3,X2 or even Matrix
RealodedJohhny Depp deserves a oscar nomination his performance was so damn good
while  it isnt to far fetchd if Geofrey ruse received a best supp actor
nomination

******
27 July 2003
10

I've seen this movie a total of 4 times. Why? Not because I didn't
understand it because it is easily painted out for you the first viewing,
but because it is a great story and an actor's showcase. I haven't seen a
film in a while that has kept me as entertained the entire length of the
film such as this one. Johnny Depp completely steals the show as Jack
Sparrow and his love for the Black Pearl.
(SPOILERS)He tries to get the ship back in his own hands, as he was captain before
the
curse set it's course, but he was thrown off the ship and marooned on an
island. Since he was unable to take a coin from the cursed chest, he
wasn't
affected by the curse itself. This is what I don't understand. Many people
say the plot is thin and doesn't make sense, but the whole movie revolves
around the Pirates looking for the last piece of gold.(End of Spoilers)I loved this movie and will buy every version that comes out on DVD in the
future, I strongly suggest you see what a good movie is all
about.

******
27 July 2003
10

For those that were disappointed with the action of this movie, I think
you
have missed the point.  The comedy has something for everybody (parents
and
kids will laugh at the same jokes for different reasons).  Even though it
is
a long movie, I never once looked at my watch or thought 'enough
already.'
This is a first class movie all the way!!!!  Except for the academies
bias
against comedy, I think Johnny Depp would get Oscar buzz.

******
27 July 2003
10

sure its a disney film, but pirates of the caribbean is one of the best
movies i've seen this summer. its hysterical (Thanks to the very lovely
and
extremely talented johnny depp), has action and a pretty girl for the
boys,
a pretty good story, a couple remotely scary parts and sweet love story.
johnny depp makes this movie worthwhile tho; if he wasnt in it it wouldnt
be
very good. but he is, so it is. :) for loads of swashbuckling fun, check
out
Pirates!

******
27 July 2003
10

I love this movie, and am glad that it has (finally) made its way on the
top
250 movies on the IMDB. It deserves it. Pirates of the Caribbean is
amazing
on every level. First of all it's a movie with a screenplay. Many witty
and
interesting lines pepper the dialog, making it entertaining. So many
movies
are just there to watch, there is nothing to listen to, it is a breath of
fresh air to be caught up in the words as well as the visuals. But on to
the
visuals, the special effects are amazing as well. Leaving the movie
theatre
there was only one scene where the special effects took me out of the
movie,
and that was the first one with the ship coming out of the fog. Pirates of
the Caribbean achieves what every other blockbuster has failed, delivering
great CG effects that are realistic and seamlessly woven into the movie.
Now
on to the acting, the weakest link in this is Orlando Bloom, but that is
not
to say that he is bad by any means. He has the least to work with so it
isn't fully his fault. Keira Knightly is very good she is quickly becoming
one of my favorite actresses, and her character is wonderful. She is not
just "the girl" she is one of the leads up there with Johnny Depp and
Orlando Bloom. Her character is one of the best female characters in an
action movie since Princess Leia. Geoffrey Rush is one of my personal
favorites and doesn't disappoint in his part as the evil pirate
captain.Now Johnny Depp, he deserves his own paragraph (as well as an Oscar
nomination) for his Captain Jack Sparrow. From the moment he sashays onto
the screen with his beaded dread locks, gold teeth, and slurred cockney
accent you cannot take your eyes off him. He is marvelous. So off beat,
and
perfect that if all other parts of the movie were bad, he would have been
worth it anyway, and the fact that the other parts of the movie are great
makes his part glorious icing on a delicious cake.Pirates of the Caribbean is my fourth favorite movie of all time. I give
it
10* out of 10. Please excuse me though, I must go to the movie theatre to
watch it again.

******
27 July 2003
9

The posters and previews made this movie look sort of cheesy, but it was
actually quite a good movie.  Very handsomely produced by Jerry
Bruckheimer
and good to great performances by all.  Johnny Depp was really funny and
Geoffrey Rush had a lot of fun with his role too.  The writers (who also
wrote SHREK and THE MASK OF ZORRO) gave this simple and chliched story
life
through witty dialogue and characters.My biggest complaint was with Gore Verbinski's direction of the sword
fight
scenes.  I think that he and his cinematographer tried to mask the
mediocre
choreography by quick cutting weird angles that obscure the action.
However, Verbinski did a pretty good job on the ship battle scenes.  That
moonlight/skeleton effect was really cool.  I'd love to see a making-of
documentary on the DVD.My Grade:9 out of 10P.S. We saw a preview for HAUNTED MANSION before the movie.  It actually
looked like it might be pretty cool.

******
27 July 2003
10

This movie is one of the greatest movies i've ever seen, and i've seen
alot
of movies in my time. I'm like a movie fanatic. I love to curle up in a
quilt and watch a good movie with all the lights turned off, and this is
the
perfect kind of movie to watch. I think Captian Jack Sparrow was the best
part of the movie because he stole your attention in every scene he was
in.
He had the most hilarious lines.  And dont even get me started on the way
he
walks.  It's definately a movie worth seeing over and over
again.

******
26 July 2003
10

If you like good fun, if you need a story (plot), and you enjoy some mayhem
added in.  Throw in a couple of enduring characters, for flavor.  Then,
you'll LOVE this film.No T, no A.  Not any even any sailor's language (in a Pirate's movie -- go
figure).  Just action, adventure, character, and story!  Enjoy the
ride!Johnny Depp falls into another excellent role.I give it 10/10.

******
26 July 2003
9

A Disney movie is a huge blockbuster hit? Who knew? But it's true, Pirates
of the Caribbean is without a doubt the best summer blockbuster this year.
Some have said that this movie was targeted toward kids and that
small-minded adults would find it good as well. I hardly consider myself and
my friends small-minded but when we went to go see this movie we were
laughing our heads off and left the theater pumped after it ended. Of course
you can't talk about this movie without talking about Johnny Depp's
portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow. I knew this movie was going to be a
classic the first time Captain Jack came on the screen. I wont give anything
away but those that have seen this movie know what I'm talking about and
probably laughed as hard as I did. I'm not the biggest Johnny Depp fan,
mainly because I just haven't seen too many of his movies, but this has to
be the role of his career. He probably wont win any awards for it but
niether did Harrison Ford for Indiana Jones and that's the sort of character
Jack Sparrow is only more quirky and flamboyant. The supporting cast was
outstanding as well. Geoffrey Rush played a good pirate, but I never thought
he was all that bad. I mean who could blame him for being a little ornary
after ten years of dealing with that curse? Orlando Bloom plays a very
heroic and Erroyl Flynn type character.  He plays these characters well but
wasn't given a whole lot to work with. I did like how he made fun of Jack's
mannerisms in one scene. And then there's Keira Knightley. What can I say
about her except that she's absolutely beautiful. People say she looks like
a cross between Natalie Portman and Winona Ryder. I say who cares who she
looks like she's gorgeous and her British accent completely knocked me out.
I've read a lot of these reviews but I can't believe no one has mentioned
the two gay pirates or the two stupid British soldiers. I'm sure they were
used to make the movie more appealing to kids but they were still hilarious!
I couldn't help laugh at them. Overall this movie kicked butt. So it's two
and a half hours long. I didn't notice it. And for those who seemed bored
with it and mock it for whatever they find wrong with it I always remeber
this. This movie wasn't made for the oscars (or though I wouldn't be
surprised if it got some special effects or costuming nods) it was made to
entertain an audience and that's exactly what it did.  You can't go into a
movie and expect it to be Citizen Kane or The Godfather everytime. You have
to understand where the producers and cast and crew were coming from and all
Bruckheimer does is make entertaining movies and this is definitely one of
them. 10/10 

******
26 July 2003
10

Oh my gosh! I saw this movie last week and still can't stop thinking
about
it. It is definetly one of my top ten.I'm actually about to go see it
again.I don't see why so many people don't like it. I think it's good for
guys and girls.It's just such a good movie.

******
26 July 2003
10

I just got home from seeing this movie.  It has everything that you could
want in a movie:  Horror, Comedy, Romance, Adventure.  I loved it!!  It's
actually very appropriate for families (content-wise).  The acting was
great.  The special effects were amazing!  I laughed so hard at the
comedic
acting of Johnny Depp.  Orlando Bloom proved that he knows how to handle a
sword.  I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone.


******
26 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is one of those rare films that gets better the
more times its viewed.  In fact it seems deliberately designed for repeat
viewings, so dense is the amount of information packed into what I found
to
be an incredibly short two and a half hours.  It may not be an
intellectual
piece, but it's certainly one of the more intelligently created films that
I've seen.  Perhaps its this denseness of information that's caused
various
critics to complain about plot holes because it does get to the point that
you blink and you've missed something.  Not that the film cannot be
enjoyed
without following every single explanation, but those critics determined
to
nitpick will erroneously find something to complain about. Certainly if
they're unwilling to dig deep enough - and with a summer entertainment
flick
like Pirates, who would think that you needed to dig deep?On the substance of the film itself, watching Pirates is the most fun I've
had in the cinema since... actually, I'm not sure when the last time was
that I enjoyed a film this much.  Johnny Depp's performance stands held
and
shoulders above pretty much every action hero to grace the screen.  His
entrance alone will become one of those shots thats played alongside Gene
Kelly singing in the rain, the Death Star blowing up, Julie Andrews
singing
in the mountains and Indiana Jones running from that boulder.  I've seen
the
film four times, and now I don't laugh when I see it, I start laughing
about
five minutes before (much to the annoyance of the rest of the
audience).The rest of the cast are pretty good too - a stand-out performance from
Geoffrey Rush, solid work from Orlando Bloom, (the gorgeous) Keira
Knightley, Jack Davenport, Jonathan Pryce and the host of minor players.
The
script is witty, clever and imaginative, while also still managing to pack
in every convention of pirate movies under the sun - but then what else
would you expect from Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio who wrote Shrek, The
Mask
of Zorro, and apparently Disney's Aladdin.  And then Gore Verbinski's able
direction manages to create a look that's both modern and classical at the
same time.The only downside to the whole thing is the musical score.  Much as Klaus
Badelt (et al) produces some decent music to match the pictures, the music
does sound derivative, it lacks a decent hero's theme (something along the
lines of the Indiana Jones theme), and probably would have sounded much
better if it had been written by Alan Silvestri.  But that's a minor
complaint in a film that actually makes me think that there's hope for the
summer blockbuster.

******
26 July 2003
10

Upbeat, entertaining, left you feeling good. Would like to see more like
this...action, story line, Depp was great! Orlando Bloom is an up and
coming
Errol Flynn. This is one for all ages. Even mindless movie viewers inured
by
endless blow-em-ups will enjoy this one.

******
26 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is perfect!  It is so much fun for people of
all ages, genders, ethnic and racial groups!  So many movies just appeal
to one group, but everyone loves this one.Johnny Depp should get an Academy Award for his hilariously charming
portrayal of Jack Sparrow.  And Orlando Bloom is the perfect innocent
caught up in the scandalous behavior of the pirates.
If you haven't seen this movie, go now.

******
26 July 2003
9

This was a very fun film to watch.  Johnny Depp steals the show as Captain
Jack Sparrow.  I wasn't aware that the movie was over 2 hours long, I was
having such a good time watching it.  Plenty of action and laughs.  I will
buy the DVD as soon as it comes out.  I plan on going to see this movie
again within the next week or so.

******
26 July 2003
8

Johnny Depp's "Captain Jack Sparrow" carries the movie -- see Roger
Ebert's
description of his character.  Everybody else is wooden except for the
pirates; many of them are a hoot...especially the guy with the "vision
problem" and his pal...

******
26 July 2003
10

One of the best I've seen this year.  Possibly, the best, this year.
Great
story, plenty of action. My 2 sons, 12 and 15 loved it.  It has something
for everyone, even a romance for us ladies. Johnny Depp steals the show.
He
is terrific!  Lots of humor. I wouldn't take really young kids to see it,
cause it does have some intense scary scenes. But this what Hollywood
should
be making instead of a lot of the garbage that comes out of there.  Great
movie!!!

******
25 July 2003
9

My only quibble? It's about 20 minutes too long. Some scenes could have been
edited without losing anything. Other than than, a winner.The acting, especially Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush, was superb. And
Orlando Bloom ensured himself a bigger role in his next movie. The story
line was actually quite entertaining and the special effects?The ships always looked like ships, not some CGI image of a ship. And the
crew of the Black Pearl?Let's just say that the effects used to depict the crew were remarkable. A
real tour de force, which was very subtle at first and then caused a "what
the?" reaction when it sunk in. As others have said, it's not a movie for youngsters. My 11 and 12-year olds
were a little spooked by some scenes, but it is not gory. Violent, yes. A
bit repulsive here and there, yes. But never gratuitous.Go see it and enjoy. 

******
25 July 2003
10
This movie was fabulous. I don't think I've enjoyed a movie in the
theater this much in a really long time, and I see lots of movies. The
critics mostly gave this movie mediocre to good ratings, but I wonder
if they were at the same movie I was, because it was great!I have heard that this is the first PG-13 Disney movie, and it
certainly has more blood and violence in it than most Disney
live-action films, but compared to most adventure movies it's quite
tame. The skeletons and sword-fights are realistic and well-done
without being real enough to be scary to anyone but small children. I'd
recommend it as a family movie, having watched it with my parents and
friends.It's also a teen/twenty-something movie, with particular appeal for
fans of Johnny Depp, as well as for everyone who drooled over Orlando
Bloom as Legolas in "The Lord of the Rings." My male friends, who found
Keira Knightly so attractive in "Bend It Like Beckham," may not even
recognize her in this movie because she has such a different look, but
it's a look that's much more typical of a romantic heroine.In "Pirates of the Caribbean:The Curse of the Black Pearl," Orlando
Bloom shines as the very good-looking Will Turner, and Keira Knightly
as Elizabeth Swann plays opposite him with vim and verve. Will has some
wonderfully swashbuckling duels, and just the right touch of romance,
adventure, derring-do and endless courage as he faces up to his
personal tragedies and revelations about the past without dwelling on
it or making the movie sad. Elizabeth is a little different from the
usual fainting females whom men are trying to rescue, because she isn't
afraid to get in a boat alone and row after Will when he needs
rescuing.One of the best special effects is when the pirates are moving in and
out of shafts of moonlight, particularly the duel between Johnny Depp
and Geoffrey Rush. Johnny Depp, who played Captain Swallow, seemed a
bit tipsy throughout the movie, and his odd behavior and wry wit
cracked me up time and again. Jonathan Pryce, though his part is small,
is quite enjoyable as the prissy governor, Elizabeth's father. Another
highlight is the monkey, whose antics are possibly the most freaky of
any in the movie. I couldn't understand the talking parrot most of the
time, and the guy with the glass eye who was supposed to be comic
relief wasn't all that funny, but generally the humor in this movie was
great; not too heavy-handed or dirty, just highly entertaining.If you get a chance to watch it, I hope that you enjoy the Pirates of
the Caribbean as much as I did! Go see it! 10 out of 10.

******
25 July 2003
8

"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" shows how much you
can get out of a Disney attraction.  The action is exciting, particularly
the swordfight between Orlando Bloom's Will Turner and Johnny Depp's Captain
Jack Sparrow.  I found the visual effects quite well done.  And Depp stole
the show as the swaggering, staggering Captain Sparrow.  I'm looking forward
to when this pirate ship sets sail again!

******
25 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightley did a
wonderful job. It was really rad seeing Johnny Depp do such a good
impersonation of Keith Richards, but then again Johnny Depp is one of THE
best actors in Hollywood. He picks great roles and here is another example.
Pirates is a wonderful movie. GO SEE IT! Oh and it was really great how they
mimicked a lot of scenes from the original ride, i.e., the scene in the Port
Royal jail with the criminals trying to get the dog to bring the keys (that
are in his mouth)over. Bloody good... Go see it!

******
25 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean has always been my favorite ride of Disneyland. The
smell of the water, the wind breeze, and the pirate animatronics. The film
has the same characteristics as the theme park ride. The pirates are
humorous and they fall into humorous situations. Such as trying to fetch the
doggy with the keys in his mouth. Pirates of the Caribbean is the best
Disney film yet! The story is creepy with cursed pirates. Johnny Depp's
performance as Captain Jack Sparrow is fantastic. He was humorous and
Captain Barbossa made a great appearance as a scurvy pirate. The famous song
was sung many times in the film. It's great. Pirates of the Caribbean is
this summer's blockbuster of the year. There's swords clashing and pistols
and cannons firing. The action is daring and the curse is scary. Fantastic
job! This is a Disney film! A bit violent, though. But great! The Haunted
Mansion looks good too. The preview is amazing! Pirates of the Caribbean is
a true sword fighting film! If you have any comments for me, please e-mail
me at tylerripen@yahoo.com.

******
25 July 2003
10

The versatility of Johnny Depp keeps on surprising me relentlessly. He does
a wonderfully flippant portrayal of Jack Sparrow. Geoffrey Rush, was just so
wonderfully evil, nuff said. The special effects were mind boggling, we just
loved those changes of in and out of the moon light.
Will definitely keep it on my list of 'want to see again'.

******
25 July 2003
10
Probably my favorite movie ever! johnny Depp was really funny, here are
some of his funny lines. I'm in the market, as it were. You need to
find yourself a girl mate. then where do the stories come from I
wonder. Welcome to the carribeans love. no not good, stop not good, you
burned all the rum. there will be no living with her after this. i love
weddings, drinks all around. I'll buy you a hat, a really big one,
Comador. Elizabeths safe just like I promised and is all set to marry
Comador just like she promised and your going to die for her just like
you promised, so were all men of our words really except for elizabeth
who is in fact a woman. Elizabeth it would never work, I'm sorry. and
Will nice hat.)nobody could have played the part better, loved his walk and facial
expressions. Orlando bloom was also great very hot. Keira was really
good too. Loved all the actors. I have seen this movie 6 times at the
theater and recommend it.

******
25 July 2003
9

Virtually every line out of Depp's mouth is golden, and his acting is
what
drives the movie.  The film itself is a little long and overburdened at
points, but Depp's performance makes everything else worth putting up
with.
Orlando Bloom does an adequate job as the clean-cut hero.

******
25 July 2003
10

If you haven't seen this movie yet go see it. I promise that it will be
the
funniest adventure you will ever see. Johnny Depp is so funny in this
movie
that he will have you laughing from beginning to end. The action and the
scenery were awesome as were the actors. I only wish that the movie were
longer because I enjoyed it so much. Go see this flick and you will not be
disappointed.

******
25 July 2003
10
   ***SPOILERS***   ***SPOILERS***
I'm going to be sure not to say anything that can be thrown back at me.
But
I have to start out with Depp. Without Jonny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow,
This movie would have gone nowhere and people wouldn't have loved it as
much
as they did. I feel that I must protect Depp from some of the IMDB users
who
love to be Critical of movies they had too high of expectations for.For
one,
Jonny Depp did not over-act his role, in fact, if Jonny hadn't acted the
way
he did, the movie wouldn't have been even half as enjoyable. I have read
all
the 500+ comments for this movie and most (90%) were saying how great this
movie was. The other 10% however were totally bagging the movie, for all
of
you critics out there I have some advise, walk into the movie with no
expectations and don't cut apart the movie, movies are not made to be
critisized, they are made to entertain people and entertain this movie
did.
I was so happy with the performance by Depp, that the fourth time I saw
this
movie, I spent the whole time just watching Depp's hand movements, the way
he moved his head, his expressions and carefully listening to his voice,
and
I must say I loved it even more after that. If you are going to this movie
expecting gore, blood, cussing and other disturbing things, please keep in
mind that this movie was made by DISNEY! This film however was not a true
disney film, it definately had it's moments of adult humor, but was also
made as a scary film for the youngsters.On a higher note, I will better explain the movie, and try not to spoil
anything. I must start off by highly reccomending this movie to EVERYONE
exept of those of you who love gore and sex too much to go watch a movie
without it. The effects were superb and nothing short of PERFECT. The
casting was also exelent and I could not think of a better cast. The one
liners are great and really give it that extra something that every movie
should have.IF YOU HAVE NOT YET SEEN THIS MOVIE, SKIP THE NEXT
PARAGRAPH...SPOILERS...SPOILERS...SPOILERS...SPOILERS...SPOILERS...SPOILERSI noticed the second time I saw this movie that it starts and ends with
the
same song, YO HO YO HO, A PIRATES LIFE FOR ME... And I thought this was a
nice little touch that really ties the movie together at the end. I must
also say that I love the part when Miss Swan faints during Norrington's
proposal,It was histerical, along with Captain Jack Sparrow's entrance on
his sinking boat, superb. The fight scene with Captain Sparrow and Turner
was great as well and really had a sence of irony to it, as did the whole
movie. Then the introduction of the Black Pearl and the first skeleton FX
,
also great. And when Captain Sparrow and Turner steal the Interceptor, now
that was truley imaginative and highly creative, again perfect. I also
think
that Cotton's Parrot (Jack's new crew) also added a great touch throughout
the whole movie and the trade of Captain Sparrow and Miss Swan made you
feel
bad and good at the same time. Then the capture (more of a disposal) of
the
Inetrceptor by the Black Pearl was alot of fun as was the scene of Captain
Jack and Miss Swan on the Island, Highly Comical, as was their rescue. And
this is when things REALLY start to get exciting. We are here introduced
again to the effects of the skeletons in the night sky as everything
starts
to go from worst, to having high hopes. In this part Captain Jack's crew
is
rescued as is Captain Jack himself, along with Turner but not before tons
of
British Navy-men die, Captain Jack himself is stabbed only to find that he
too is a skeleton because he had stolen a gold coin(I actually thought him
to be dead at this point and was really sad only to see that things were
okay)And this is when you REALLY get impressed, when Captain Jack and
Barbossa are fighting in and out of the moonlight changing from live to
undead, THESE are the effects that come close to matching that of the
Matrix
(different FX though)and this is the part even you critics loved!!and then
Barbossa, the Rival, the Nemisis, the all-around bad guy we love to hate
is
shot and killed by Captain Jack's only bullet from his only pistol what
was
given to him by Barbossa only ten years before when he was marooned on
"That
Godforsakin spit of land"right when the curse of the Black Pearl is lifted
by Turner. AMAZING!!! all of this was perfectly timed and choreographed
down
to the last second, AWSOME. And of course all ends well when Captain
Sparrow
excapes from being hung and then gets away on his new and improved Black
Pearl as Turner gets the girl. I must admitt that there were a few
loopholes, or misstakes, such as Ragetti's wooden eye that swivals. This
is
totally impossible for there are no tendons or muscles conected to his
eye,
it even moves when the curse is lifted. But all-in-all A PERFECTLY WELL
ROUNDED, WELL WRITTEN MOVIE...This paragraph is for those of you who have yet to see this great movie.
You
will be delighted with the well written one liners, the great cast, the
great scenery and well done FX.Also I'm sure you will all be impressed
with
the loyalty that the directors and writers showed to the famous Disney
Park
ride at least three to four scenes from the ride are actually in the
movie.
But I warn you DO NOT LEAVE AFTER THE MOVIE, STAY AND WATCH THE CREDITS,
THERE IS A SPECIAL SCENE AT THE END THAT OPENS UP FOR A SEQUEL TO OUR NEW
FAVORITE PIRATE MOVIE!You will love this movie(most of you)and I hope no
one
is dissapointed!! I give this movie a 10/10!!!"It's not a key, a hold, decks and sails; that's what a ship needs, but
what
a ship is, what The Black Pearl REALLY is,is FREEDOM" -Captain Jack
Sparrow

******
25 July 2003
10

Took the family to see the movie last night, and would have to say that we
have not had that much fun in a long time.  It had action, romance, great
special effects and a storyline that wove the whole 2.5 hours together
very
well.Being "ex-Disney", I appreaciated some of the inside humor ("More like a
guideline"), and loved the way they integrated the scenes from the
attraction into the movie - without being too hokey about
it.I am not a real fan of Johnny Depp, but I thought that his performance was
outstanding.  The rest of the cast was great, but he stole the
film.Great for the family, great for dates, great for everyone.

******
25 July 2003
10

As the title suggests, this was an incredible movie. It included stars
such
as Johny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow, Orlando Bloom as Will Turner and
Geoffery Rush as the evil Captain Barbrossa. The plot line was great and
the
acting was incredible from the main cast to those two undead pirates with
the removeable eyeballs. When I first saw the trailer, I must admitt I was
seeing it because Bloom (Legolas from LoTR) was in it. But I soon learned
that Depp was much better than Bloom in this movie. Depp kept the audience
laughing in about every sceen he was in, and Bloom provided the color
commentary. Another good part was the music. It was just like a Star
Wars/Lord of the Rings soundtrack. Loved it. Overall, the movie get a full
10/10. Certainly, the best movie of the year so far. 

******
25 July 2003
10

Took the family to see the movie last night, and would have to say that we
have not had that much fun in a long time.  It had action, romance, great
special effects and a storyline that wove the whole 2.5 hours together
very
well.Being "ex-Disney", I appreciated some of the inside humor ("More like a
guideline"), and loved the way they integrated the scenes from the
attraction into the movie - without being too hokey about
it.I am not a real fan of Johny Depp, but I thought that his performance was
outstanding.  The rest of the cast was great, but he stole the
film.Great for the family, great for dates, great for everyone.

******
25 July 2003
10

This is a exciting,adventurous, hilariously funny, action
movie.
Thier are parts where your laughing your but off the chair. Parts that
make
you jump in your seats and wonder what is going to happen
next.
I would see this as many times as I could for all the parts that is
excellently  funny and exciting!

******
24 July 2003
10

When I first heard about Pirates of the Caribbean: The curse of the black
pearl, I was exited. I thought, "Wow, that looks pretty good!". Well, when
I
saw the movie, my thoughts changed. It wasn't pretty good. Is wasn't good.
It was great. Now, I will start this with the graphics. They where
amazing!
Every bone was correct, and the rotting flesh was so creepy it wowed the
audience in every way. Now, the actors... they where all also perfect. The
one that I must say shined the most, was Johnny Depp (Captain jack
sparrow)!
He was perfect, and his acting and moves made him the most complex
character. The others where also great, but there's something about Johnny
Depp. Another thing to talk about. It's rated PG-13. Is this a bad thing?
Not at all. Should you take your little kids to see it? No. It's almost as
violent as "Lord of the rings". That's not a bad thing, though. The music.
This was yet another great part of the movie. The tunes where fast paced,
action packed, and amazing. In fact I highly recommend for you to buy this
soundtrack. The setting was perfect, and the parts that are the best, (The
duel, and the final battle etc.) are absolutely amazing. This is not only
the first PG-13 Disney movie, but "Pirates" was also probably the longest.
The comedy was side-splitting. Overall I highly, HIGHLY, recommend this
movie. You will love it. I give it a 10 out of 10.

******
24 July 2003
10

I loved Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl! I saw it 3
times and I want to see it again! I thought that it was incredibly funny
and
the effects were so good! I can't wait until it comes out on DVD/VHS! I
just
can't wait!!!! The Cast Did an excellent job! I WANT TO SEE IT AGAIN AND
AGAIN AND AGAIN AND AGAIN!!!!!!!!

******
24 July 2003
7

The leading actors were all excellent.  Also, the many character actors
gave
added spice to the movie.   The movie could have been edited down by
removing some of the duplication   How many times did we need to visit the
cave.

******
24 July 2003
10

Where to start?? I must say that this movie was just WOW. Not only was
Jonny
Depp hot, along with Orlando Bloom, not only was the casting great,
asigning
Rush and Depp's rival, Not only where the skeleton FX amazing, not only
was
I suprized at the faithfulness to the Disney Ride, but every little detail
of the movie was perfection, plus or minus a few. But what I loved the
most,
What really made this movie a must see, was Jonny Depp's performance as
Captain Jack Sparrow. Now I keep seeing people making the mistake that
Captain Sparrow was gay or always drunk, which would explain his strange
yet
comical movements but alas, hes was none of these, he was crazy. Mr. Gibbs
said so himself. "they marroned him on and Island but not after he went
mad
with hate" Why do people always overlook the important
stuff??-Syd"It's not a key, a hold, decks and sails; that's what a shipneeds, but what a ship IS, what the Black Pearl REALLY is... isFREEDOM."

******
24 July 2003
8

I think that this movie was very much a surprise! I really liked it.
Johnny
Depp is hilarious, Orlando Bloom is hot, and all the women in the movie
kick
ass! YAY! Not to mention that the plot is intriguing and the special
effects
are very good. Check out the Johnny Depp/Jeffery Rush fight scene, it's
great!

******
23 July 2003
9

I've seen a lot of movies this summer.  Everything from X2 to The Matrix
Reloaded to Hulk to T3.  These were all action packed and/or thought
provoking.  It was about time for something that was just `fun'.  Pirates of
the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl filled that
quota.Orlando `Legolas' Bloom stars as Wil Turner, a typical
`blacksmith-with-a-heart-of-gold-turned-to-piracy-after-undead-pirates-kidnap-his-one-true-love'.Keira `Not-Natalie-Portman' Knightley (who actually played Queen Amidala's
decoy in The Phantom Menace) is Wil's one true love, Elizabeth Swann.  It's
one of those `high-class-girl-has-to-marry-high-class-even-though-she-loves-lowly-blacksmith'
stories, but when she's captured by undead pirates, things
change.Johnny `Didn't-He-Used-To-Be-Really-Famous?' Depp makes this movie as
Captain Jack Sparrow.  Depp stole every single shot he was in, playing the
typical `pirate-who-you-never-really-know-what-side-he's-on-even-at-the-end'.
 Depp is hilarious, and I will probably buy this movie when it comes out on
DVD, if only for his performance."Impressive" Factor: High.  Besides the humor brought by Captain Sparrow,
the special effects were beyond.  Just beyond.  Industrial Light and Magic
outdid themselves on this one.  You see, the undead pirates show their
undeadedness when moonlight hits them, which makes for some creepy, dramatic
moments, but once that point is brought across, it's almost like it's no big
deal.  Skin, no skin, its all the same.  It's about time special effects
weren't the focus, no matter how awesome they might be.  The ending battle
is great, perhaps only because the special effects were used to enhance the
story, not just be there.Overall:  See this film.  It has everything.  Pirates, love, humor, special
effects.  Go.  Now.

******
23 July 2003
7

Yeah, it was produced by Disney and the budget had "Disney" written all over
it, but I have never seen a Disney movie quite like this before... and I
like it!  It wasn't easy getting me to this movie: I don't see Disney movies
in the theaters... ever and I never see pirate movies, but my friend
convinced me to go and to be honest the commercials looked
good.Well, I'm glad I went.  This was an experience to behold.  The landscapes
and cinematography is beautiful and the acting is terrific.  The story is
the only thing in this movie that's Disney and that is only the basic
framework. I.g.: Don't expect a surprise ending, be prepared to say, "Well
isn't that ironic?" In a sarcastic way.  But that is okay because a movie
that ends like that is okay now and then.  Besides, what is inside the frame
is totally un-Disney and it made me like pirates.There are many sword fights and many people die... I think just one is a
record for Disney.  The over all tone is dark and foreboding and the
solution to the plot is more like an Indiana Jones film.  While there are
more senses on land than in the ocean, all the scenes are beautifully done
and look like something you should see in a pirate movie.Now onto the best part of the movie: Jack Sparrow.  I have a new respect,
actually I have some respect, for Johnny Depp; no one could have made the
role better.  He plays a headstrong, not-not-so-up-to what he thinks he is
pirate.  In fact, most of the amazing stuff this guy pulls off is totally
luck and total stupidity on the part of his enemies.  He also brings a level
of humor that goes between sarcastic and blunt and back and forth that
really makes you wonder what he's going to say. The one liners and over all
mood he gives the film makes it all that more enjoyable.  He's like a modern
day good for nothin' wannabe hippie that had everything dropped into his lap
and if it isn't given to him, he gives up... finally a pirate I can relate
to!  Anyway, I hope he returns for sequels.Keira Knightly is, well, a perfect balance between talent and beauty.  While
anyone could have acted the role she makes the heroic portions of the role
all that more believable and she looks damn good doing it.  She's a woman
that you can believe four guys would be going after at once.  She is sexy
and strong and I loved her in the movie.  Wish I could say the same for
Orlando Bloom, but he really wasn't in his element and obviously hasn't
developed enough to make the best of what he's got... he seemed to method
act a lot of it.  Geoffrey Rush played Barbossa really well and looked
especially well.  I really felt hate towards him.In all this is a terrific movie that deserves it's success.  Anyone who says
other wise is looking to deep into the movie... it's Disney, and you can't
expect Forrest Gump.Go see it even if you don't like pirates or Disney films, I did and I liked
it.How it stacks up to me:
Forrest Gump: 10/10
snatch.: 9/10
jackass the movie: 8/10
*Pirates of the Caribbean... ect: 7/10*
Phone Booth: 7/10
Tears of the Sun: 6/10

******
23 July 2003
10

I absolutely loved this film as well as Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp
(yumm!)It was entertaining the whole time, I never looked at my watch
once!The special effects were awesome, especially during the dueling
scenes.
I highly recommend that everyone should see this movie!

******
23 July 2003
10

Although I am not a big Johnny D fan, this movie was great. This Disney
production will become a classic in their list of best
films.
I'm not one to write an extensive review on a movie so, I'll make this
short
and sweet. Go and see this film, you will not regret it.

******
23 July 2003
9

I have to admit going in to this picture I had some reservations. I mean
how
desperate has the movie industry become that they are driveing around
Southern California looking for amusement park rides for story ideas. I
grew
up in Anaheim right next to Disneyland so I am intimately familiar with
The
Pirates of the Caribbean ride there. I have to say that thankfully though
this movie only has passing resembleances to things that take place on the
ride; instead chooseing (correctly) to use the ride as inspireation for
almost a completely new story idea.First off I have to say that the special effects were incredible, of
course
what could you expect but the best from ILM. I dont think i've seen a
movie
in the past year where they dident have some part in the special affects
in
the movie if needed.The movie itself was supriseingly rather well paced. I dident realize
untill
I got home that the movie was over 2 hours long, there simply are no slow
spots in the movie, and certainly nothing you'd start thinking about
sneaking out to get some popcorn over so you better come in with all the
goodies you want for those 2 hours because your not going to want to
leave.The story is amuseing in enough places to make the movie generaly classed
as
a comedy along with the action/adventure/fantasy tag but it somehow
manages
to roll all this into one without boreing the audience.It's sappy in some places, but comidicly so instead of being weepy. And
the
romantic sub-plot is goofy enough to be funny but romantic enough to be
beliveable, and above all fairly original.The only reason I don't rate this movie a 10 is I dident leave it with the
heart pounding intensity of being totaly drawn into the movie and the
story
it represents, but to be honest this dosent seem to be the intention of
the
movie at all. Instead it comes off as a light hearted romp thru the
imagination of someone who's probably been on the ride at Disneyland one
too
many times. :)There are a few nods to the ride itself also, specificly 3 or 4 places
where
scenes from the movie could have been cut directly out of the ride, but it
comes off more as an homage to the ride origin of the story itself instead
of the movie relying on peoples familiarity with the ride to support it.There is also an amuseing bit at the end that I wont spoil here you can
click on the side bar under "Crazy Credits" to see exactly what it is but
it's probably the only part of the movie that shamelessly plugs the
possiblility of a Part II if the movie goes in that direction.

******
23 July 2003
10

The Pirates of the Caribbean; the Curse of the Black Pearl, is long in
both
title and running time. However, to those of us, myself included, who
would
sit forever in a movie theatre so long as we liked the movie we were
seeing,
the time was neither too long, nor over-done. At a whopping two hours and
fifteen minutes, I found surprising little lag time in the plot as it
hopped
easily and smoothly from one scene to another. Though a lot of people are
saying it was repetitive (and I'll admit, some parts were), I found I
didn't
care much as the movie was such a well done piece of work that it had me
wanting it not to end.If you haven't heard enough about Johnny yet, here's some more. Though the
casting was superb for all the roles, Depp certainly stole the spotlight.
With a swaggering walk, slurred accent, and clever costume, the infamous
Captain Jack Sparrow sweet talked his way out of trouble (an into the
audiences' hearts!) time and time again. This suave rougue with his
half-drunken manner, his clever comments, and his daring eye-liner look,
got
himself into and out of trouble in about equal amounts. Though he always
managed to come out on top, most of the time it was obvious he was not
entirely sure of what he was doing; though he did a good job of faking it.
Not on any one side all of the time, Jack Sparrow played the part of a
hero
(whether he had intended it or not), while just trying to retrieve his
beloved ship from the hands of the mutinous Captain Barbossa. However many
flaws the bumbling Captain Jack had, and though he didn't always play by
the
rules ('pirate' after all), he became a loveable, goofy character that has
landed Johnny Depp his greatest role yet, I believe. He seemed to have
sunken completely into his role, and invented such a clever
character.This action packed movie has a little bit for everyone, comedy, action,
adventure, even romance, though Disney did a good job of not steaming up
the
screen too much. A carefully placed love plot was tied in with the rest of
the movie, so as to keep it discreet but add a little spice to this
adventuresome flick; not to worry parents, no Titanic scenes in this film!
The two lovers, Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann, were played by the
talented
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley, both of whom did excellent jobs with
their roles. Geoffrey Rush played the mutinous Captain Barbossa, who was
an
excellent villain, though not so funny as to take away Depp's role as the
main comic relief.The animation was nicely done, and it was an interesting concept to see
the
crew of the Black Pearl turned into living skeletons. The plot is easy
enough to understand, and will keep the younger audiences interested, as
well as the older audiences. Great twists, memorable characters and
quotes,
beautiful scenery, and a carefully crafted plot kept me interested the
whole
way through. I'm only sorry I didn't stay to see the extra scene at the
end,
I'll be seeing the movie a second time, and will definitely enjoy it just
as
much. It has quickly climbed my ranks among favorite movies of all time.
Though it was based on a ride, and many would consider it just a
'marketing
ploy', I say; "if they spent the time and money to make it, and it's good,
let them reap the benefits. They earned it." Pirates of the Caribbean is a
memorable movie, with an awsome selection of characters (and actors) and a
clever plot that I think anyone who just wants to escape reality and have
a
good laugh will enjoy. Definitely one to see in theatres!

******
23 July 2003
10

My family has seen this movie 3 times and plan to go back again!  As the
credits start to role, my children are asking, "when are we going to see
it
again?" or "when can we buy it?"  It has all the elements of a great
swashbuckling pirate movie, it was very comical in parts, and even had a
romance.  The special effects were outstanding.  I also recommend this
movie
for the simple fact that it is difficult to find a movie that the whole
family enjoys with that much sword play and not a lot of gore.  I would
recommend this movie to anyone looking for a great ride!

******
23 July 2003
10

This movie had great graphics and the acting at the very beginning was ok
but got great later on! I did get confused once or twice about the curse
because they don't say it right out but put bits and pieces in throughout
the movie which isn't bad, but the timing of the bits and pieces were.
Which
is probably why some people got bored. But it all came together
eventually,
plus I had my friends to ask. I would defiantly recommend this movie! It's
funny, exciting, romantic, etc. . . 

******
22 July 2003
6

I was not expecting this movie to be a comedy, I was hoping for a more
serious movie with realistic swordfighting scenes accompanied by some blood.
I was kinda hoping for a Braveheart on the seas with high suspense and drama
which the movie never had. It was just a kiddy movie with a few love scenes,
a few fights, and a few scares from the ghosts, but nothing too scary. The
only good things about the movie were the special effects and seeing the
ships in action.

******
22 July 2003
6

An entertaining comedy/action film that keeps you entertained even if you
barely remember it later.  Johnny Depp hams it up as the deposed pirate and
Orlando Bloom gets to act heroic but the performances are mostly over the
top mugging.. still the action is entertaining enough and it keeps your
attention from wandering into the numerous plot holes.. As films based on
DIsneyland attractions go, this one is an improvement over "The Country
Bears" and is somewhat entertaining, despite the various flaws. GRADE:
B

******
22 July 2003
9

This movie begins with very clever and subtle humor that continues through
the whole movie.  The visuals of this film were spectacular!  Excellent
special effects and excellent scenes produced just the right atmosphere for
every scene.  Johnny Depp was brilliant as usual, though I failed to
understand what he was saying at times (along with some of the other
characters).  No, it wasn't the smarmy sea slang, it was just bad sound (or
mumbling).  The movie definitely dragged on towards the end, not ending
several times when it could have.  But even though it was late, I found
myself hoping that it wouldn't end!  It was just that kind of a show. My only complaint:  I went at 11 pm, on a Sunday night, and I was SURROUNDED
by noisy children and infants!  Is there nothing sacred
anymore????

******
22 July 2003
10

Truly, what more COULD anyone ask? "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse
of
the Black Pearl" has adventure, drama, comedy, swordplay, excellent
writing,
a moderately capable damsel in distress, and two very, very beautiful men
(for those moviegoers who find such things appealing). I saw this movie
on
opening night and wasn't disappointed in the slightest, although I had
exceedingly high expectations for it.I've been a Disney fan since early childhood, and Pirates was always my
favorite ride. I eagerly awaited the movie from the first moment I heard
it
was being made, even more so once I learned that both Orlando Bloom and
Johnny Depp were to star in it. They both pulled their weight admirably,
particularly Depp, whose Keith Richards-inspired, not-quite-effeminate
Captain Jack Sparrow is, in my opinion, one of the best characters ever
put
on screen.In short, I wholeheartedly reccomend seeing "Pirates," repeatedly, and I
fully intend to buy the DVD the day it comes out. (And by the way...make
sure you wait until the end of the credits to leave--there's an extra
scene!)

******
22 July 2003
10

Well, shall I say ostentatious and cynical, rather...I find myself frustrated when I read bad reviews of good movies. I know that
it is a critic's job to be critical, hence their title... and I know that a
critic can still appreciate a movie and still use wit and intelligence to
point out some of its flaws... and I also know that a critic should not
conform to other's views but I've unfortunately glanced over a few biting
reviews of this film. It's really disgusting. The only reason I see that one
would denounce this film as one of the worst of all time is that they are
trying to go against the grain to seem really smart or ironic. "Pirates of
the Caribbean" is one of the greatest movies of all-time - finally an
Indiana Jones/Star Wars type adventure for the modern generation. And even
if an audience member (or critic...) didn't personally enjoy the film (which
I find very hard to believe) - he or she can at least admire it for all the
technical achievements and brilliant writing, editing, cinematography,
direction, acting...! Any way, my point is, there is a line that a supposed
critic can cross over, they can cross over into cynicism... in which a
reader of his or her review should question whether this person knows
anything about movies in the first place. "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a
masterpiece and I don't think the readers on IMDB need to be told that, they
should just go see it! A crowd pleaser with depth and intelligence, finally!
It is times like these when I thank God for Disney and Johnny
Depp!


******
22 July 2003
10

Val Kilmer in Tombstone is equivalent to Johnny Depp in Pirates of the
Caribbean.  He totally steals the show!  He is so awesome!  I have been a
fan of Johnny Depp since way back...Platoon I think.  He is such a great
actor.  And let's not forget Orlando.  He's a great actor too.  Loved him
in
LOTR, loved him in Pirates.  Awesome start!    

******
22 July 2003
10

I first saw the previews of this movie a while back, and was dying to see
it, because of Orlando Bloom. When it finally came out, I was so mad that
I
couldn't go on the first day. I went the next day with my friend, but I
wasn't setting my expectaions too high because, well, I'm not the biggest
pirate movie fan. But it was AMAZING!!! Johnny Depp is hilarious as Jack
Sparrow, Orlando provides the eye candy as he swashbuckles his way into
your
heart, and Keira Knightley is, of course, the beautiful damsel in
distress.
Everyone did a great job in this movie! The effects were amazing; I was
pretty creeped out by those skeletons, I can tell you. Basically, this
film
is great to see if you're looking for a good, fun time at the movies. I'd
gladly see it again anytime.I'd give it a 9/10. Good job, Disney! You pleasantly suprised me with this
one!

******
22 July 2003
10

Pirates was excellent.  Some critics have said it's too long.  I never
noticed the time because I was enjoying the movie.  Johnny Depp was
fantastic and he was surrounded by a great cast.This isn't Oscar stuff..this is what summer is all about.  A fun escape
from
the real world.

******
22 July 2003
10

All I have to say that this is one of the best films so far in 2003.
Except
for, DUH LOTR 3.Orlando Bloom has to be the sexiest man alive right now and he was
wonderful
in this movie.  He is showing that he is very universal in his
acting.GO ORLI!!!

******
22 July 2003
10

This was truly a fun movie.  My expectations were low, as I am not a huge
fan of Johnny Depp, but this picture changed that.  He gave a great
performance and completely held me and my kids attention for the full 2
hours plus. I loved the special effects and the way the humor is woven
through the whole picture.  This will be a must own for our video
library.
Oh yeah - I say it on the opening day and there was great enthusiasm - we
saw it a second time and there was still a wait - this is a
keeper!

******
22 July 2003
8

A bit long... but this movie is still excellent and the cast is
outstanding!
Geoffrey Rush, Johnny Depp, Keira Knightly, and Orlando Bloom do and
excellent job at playing pirates and civilians in the mid-18th century. I
hadn't expected much, but for a Disney movie it's pretty violent. The plot
is pretty good actually and is played out well. It's just a fun time,
nothing too in depth. They make a couple errors, but it's not a big deal.
And although it may be long, it just makes it more fun... you don't want
it
to end!

******
22 July 2003
9

We saw this movie today, and we both enjoyed it tremendously. Johnny Depp,
as usual, is easy on the eyes, but we loved the cool special effects,
explosions, swordfights, fort attacks, shipwrecks, ship
highjackings--while
perhaps a tad too long (over two hours), it is definitely worth the price
of
admission. Not to mention the soundtrack is excellent. Go see this film.


******
22 July 2003
10

This movie is a classic. It's going up on my shelf the day the DVD comes
out. It's so much FUN! :) Loved the acting, it was even better the second
time, and I'm planning on going to see it in the theatres again. SFX were
great, Johnny Depp is the heart and soul of this movie, my favorite
swording-fighting scene was between Depp and Bloom in the rafters,
Knightley
is lovely and funny in her own right, and Cap'n Jack Sparrow's entrance
has
got to be one of the filmdom's classics. Great cinematography, the plot
was
great (and left room for a sequel :), and I don't have a single complaint
about it. The thing I enjoyed the most about it was that it was just
rolicking good fun. It's up there with quotables like The Princess Bride
and
Holy Grail. Rush played a very good ham to Depp's cheese. Depp played it
like he'd had a bit too much rum...ten years ago. Pryce was even redeemed
upon a second viewing. Great costumes, a totally plastered good
time!

******
22 July 2003
10

We thoroughly enjoyed this Walt Disney film even though we aren't big
Disney
fans. It was a fun swashbuckling movie with a good cast and interesting
plot. Johnny Depp was an awesome pirate. He was fun to watch. His
character
was charming and eccentric. We also liked Orlando Bloom and Keira
Knightley
in their roles. We also thought the graphics with the skeletons was pretty
neat. Good entertainment!

******
21 July 2003
10

I did not expect to be as blown away by this movie as I was, considering the
source material.  It was a surprise to see this goofball adventure yarn
become quite extraordinary cinema.  There are some healthy doses of Errol
Flynn-Basil Rathbone derring-do (Bloom and Depp buckling swash in the smithy
shop) along with great comedic moments and memorable characters -- I need
not mention that being Depp's manic and hilarious Jack Sparrow.  A manlier,
gayer pirate has never lived.  He would have walked away with the movie
completely if Orlando Bloom had not been well nigh perfect as the earnest
love interest, looking pretty damn good in those nice-fitting duds and
delivering his lines seriously to counterbalance Depp's utter insanity. 
Geoffrey Rush looked like he was having a fun time snarling "arrr! me
buckos!" around the deck and the whole ride was worth my money.  The only
negative is Keira Knightly's bizarre way of holding her lips.  Must be an
affectation, because I have seen the same maneuver on Renee Zellweger and
Michelle Pfeiffer (in years past).  Irritating little mannerism,
that.Anyway, can't wait for the DVD!10/10

******
21 July 2003
10

This movie not only had superb and foooinee actors and actresses, it had a
great plot, too! The special effects were amazing, and Johnny Depp was a
treat! I honestly couldn't choose who was the cuter and best actor, Johnny
Depp or Orlando Bloom! They were both stunning as their charactes. This
movie was amazing. It had action, romance, horror, and comedy! Everything
you need for a 10 out of 10 movie! This one hit the mark, everyone..X MARKS
THE SPOT!

******
21 July 2003
10

This movie is an incredible ride, like no other. I had to give this movie a
5/5, it is that good. Right when I saw the preview a few months ago, I knew
I had to see it. I am glad I did. Worth any price at any theater. This has
to be Mr. Depps best work ever. He was wonderful, not only to watch but his
acting as well. He is the perfect mix of bad/good/funny pirate. I cannot
imagine anyone else playing the part as Captain Jack Sparrow better than
him. NO ONE. The visual effects are the best part of the movie I must say. I
have never seen anything like it, it was like it could have been real. The
skeletons in the moonlight, creepy. One thrilling adventure everyone should
see. Acting is wonderful, not one cast member out of place or horrible,
which is usually the case. Everything fits together, like a puzzle. In most
movies, one piece or a few pieces of the puzzle are missing, but in
"Pirates", the puzzle is complete. 

******
21 July 2003
10

wow.wow.wow.
thats how you make a movie!
entertainment! 
I know they won't, but the Academy should recognize Johnny Depp in some way,
that was FANTASTIC as Cap'n Jack! best acting I've seen in a
while.
its good old fashioned swashbuckling, great effects, and just altogether
good fun. I hope this movie does REALLY well.
please go and see it, you won't regret it!!!


******
21 July 2003
10

i saw this movie twice already and i am itchin to see it again!  This is
the
best movie ever made!!!!! It is so funny, and romantic, and exciting! How
could you possibly not enjoy a PIRATE MOVIE?! i can't believe people are
dissing this movie! All i know is there has got to be something wrong
with
you if you did not have a good time.
(this is my second comment for Pirates of the Carribean, the first one is
a
review of the movie, and this comment is about other people's comments.)I want to point out to all the picky viewers who weren't impressed by
the
special effects that the movie is also for kids and if the skeletons were
any more detailed the children would be crying. If you haven't seen it
yet,
GO SEE IT FOR YOURSELF! don't be put off by other peoples comments, go
and
see for your self, who's knows you may fall in love.

******
21 July 2003
10

I see alot of movies but very rarley have the desire to see one more than
once.  This movie however has been a great exception.  Johnny Depps
performance is outstanding,  the story is exciting and the special
effects
are great!  I have found myself back in the theatre every day since the
movie opened and I love it every time!

******
21 July 2003
8

To see the previews with Johnny Depp with Tammy Faye
Bakker-like eye-liner caked on, I thought, "Finally a movie that
makes Cutthroat Island look reputable."  But after viewing the film, I
realized that only someone as quirkily eccentric as Depp could
have pulled off this role.  Most of the fun stems from Jack
Sparrow's charismatic bumblings.   You can't help but like the guy.
I think the spark of the movie would have been lost if they had cast
a lunkhead action hero.  You don't need Ahh-nold for the best
action movie of the summer.

******
21 July 2003
10

I am just glad to see so many people who agree with me. The
characterizations were wonderful. The storyline (though from a commonly
recognized genre) was not totally predictable. The special effects and
musical score complimented the movement of the story, and the photography
was (especially the island scenes) excellent. The only thing this movie
didn't have were tears (which I was glad to do without). What more could
you
ask for?This was interesting and fun. I love high seas adventures, and "Pirates
of
the Caribbean" is going to become a 'must watch' classic.

******
21 July 2003
10

This is the best Pirate movie since Hook.
I loved every minute of it.
The producers knew what they were doing when making this movie. It had a
little of everything for all people.

******
21 July 2003
10

Amazing! Exciting, Thrilling, Funny, Charming! One of my absolute
favorite
movies of all time! Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow makes the movie
what
it is and adds a humor to the story line. Orlando Bloom and Kiera
Knightly
are wonderful together, and Geoffrey Rush is positively evil and
exciting.
The music and special effects are great! All of the actors and actresses
are
wonderful.

******
21 July 2003
10

POTC is absolutely the BEST movie I've seen all my life and I've seen a
number of movies. It contains different genres, such as comedy,
adventure,
and romance, that come together to result in a great film that's, without
a
doubt, worth seeing more than twice in the theater. Johnny Depp, who
plays
the hilarious Captain Jack Sparrow, has proved his superior acting skills
once again, while at the same time, taking the female audiences' breath
away
with his gorgeous face and hot bod. It's actually kind of awkward that I
find the black eyed "pirate look" he flaunts to be very sexy and I think
gives him a sense of mystery. He was deff. my favorite! As for the other
cast members, they also did an outstanding job. Geoffry Rush, who's other
movies I've never seen, played the villain of the film very well.
Newcomers
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley are rising stars who were lucky enough,
AND talented enough, to get one of their first roles in a movie like
this.
The movie is entertaining for all ages, both boys and girls. It was
thankfully long and kept me sitting in my seat wanting more and more,
even
after the two and half hours were over. POTC deserves every kind of movie
award there is and I hope it receives at least three. I am going tomorrow
to
see it again with a friend who has also already seen it. After that, I'll
probably go a few more times because I can't wait long enough for it to
be
released on DVD!! Go see it before it's no longer in
theaters!!!

******
21 July 2003
10

This is a fun film with a nice balance of comedy, action and story. This
movie was all about having fun. Johnny Depp's portrayal as Jack Sparrow
is
FANTASTIC. He really delved into the character to bring out the nuisances
that make him interesting to watch and listen to. The costuming was
outstanding, with a fine attention to detail. This is one of those movies
I
would enjoy seeing again, and again, and again!

******
21 July 2003
10

An outcast pirate and a swashbuckling young smith are united in their
quest
for the cursed ship named "The Black Pearl" which has captured the
beautiful
daughter of the islands governor.Great show. From the action sequences to the acting (especially by Depp),
this movie delivers. The music is great too (almost as good as the
Gladiator
soundtrack - which is also by Hans Zimmer). 9/10.

******
21 July 2003
10

This movie was one of the greatest,cutest, and funniest pirate movies I
have
seen. The cast was great. Johnny Depp was hysterical. I was cracking up
just
by the way he walked. Orlando Bloom was great at the hero who denies his
true nature. Keira Knightley was pretty funny too, especially when she
started really chowing down. Geoffrey Rush was downright creepy. The
special
effects was awesome. I loved when the pirates transitioned into zombies.
The
costumes were perfect. All great choices made by Jerry Bruckheimer and
the
director.

******
20 July 2003
10

The pirate film has returned, and Errol Flynn would be proud. Pirates of the
Caribbean is simply a fun film to watch. Johnny Depp is particularly over
the top which makes Captainb Jack Sparrow stand out that much more as a
legend in his own time (and mind). Geoffrey Rush is his usual great self,
and plays dignified evil to the bone. 
   Outside the acting, Verbinski continues to use imagery which is simply
fun to look at. Much like in "The Ring" he has some visuals which really
pulls you into the movie. The script never lingers too long without coming
back to life and it seems like the cast generally enjoyed the experience
which comes across in their dialogue and word play.
    In the end, this film may be 2.5 hours, but it feels like so much less,
and it accomplishes something most films don't. You leave saying, "I would
watch a sequel to that." 

******
20 July 2003
6

At a lengthy 2 plus hours with intense fight scenes aplenty, this movie
doesn't exactly seem like kid stuff.  Don't be fooled.  Like the Disney Land
ride that inspired it, this is a movie that can be enjoyed only by the young
and the young at heart.  Aged cynics should see something else.  This is a
movie for all the men and boys who have ever dreamed of making women swoon
by skillfully wielding a sword, all the women and girls who have ever
dreamed of being saved by a dashing young man.Leave logic at the door, because like all those childish fantasies, this
movie exists for the thrill of the moment, the clash of swords, cheeky one
liners, and a bombastic score.  The whole thing would be completely
ludicrous if not for the performances of Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush, who
give a little class to the whole affair.  They handle the material by going
completely over the top, and winking conspiratorially at the audience as
they do it.  In his portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow, Depp combines equal
parts drag queen and fiersome pirate to arrive at a character that captured
my attention every moment he was on the screen.  Geoffrey Rush isn't as
good, but is good enough as the evil Captain Barbossa.  Orlando Bloom and
Keira Knightly get to play it straight, while simultaneously giving audience
members something pretty to look at.The plot is too complicated to adequately summarize in a short space, and
why bother?  The plot is inconsequential anyway, serving merely as a means
for these actors to fight with their swords, swing around on ropes, and go
broke for laughs.  If you wanna enjoy this one, you might as well just let
go and get in touch with your inner child.  You'll be glad you
did.

******
20 July 2003
10

I had been a fan of the Disney ride ever since I was a kid, and it remains a
favorite into adulthood. We were in DisneyWorld in the fall of 2002 when we
heard that they were making a movie of the ride and my first impression was
not good. However I'm glad to say that I was wrong! The movie had the same
fun-spirited adventure as the ride and it's surely to delight kids of all
ages, whether or not you've been on the ride. Johnny Depp was truly wonderful as Jack Sparrow, as were Geoffrey Rush as
Barbossa and the lovely Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann. The flim had
humour, lots of adventures and battle scenes, and the special effects were
great. This is truly a film for all ages, though the little ones might be
scared by some of the scenes.*** out of ****

******
20 July 2003
9

I entered `Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl' with
mediocre anticipation.  Pirate movies are said that have a curse of their
own, with a handful of such films failing miserably at the box office
throughout the 90s.  With such low expectations, imagine my surprise when
the movie turned out to be far from a turkey.Now that's not to say that this is a great film.  Heaven knows that for the
past decade most Hollywood summer releases are essentially $100 million
B-movies, and this is no exception.  The story is shoddy, the quips are
many, and the special effects have a sort of `look at how fake I am!'
feeling to them.But it is a rousing adventure, and for the most part, the cast eats up the
proceedings with vigor.  Our film begins with young Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightley) spotting a boy floating on a makeshift raft near the decimated
remains of a ship.  The boy is pulled aboard Elizabeth's ship, which is
currently transporting her father Governor Swann to a settlement in the New
World.  She takes a pendant off the boy while he is unconscious, which has a
suspicious looking gold coin attached to it.Flash forward eight years to our story proper, where Elizabeth is now
blossoming into womanhood.  Despite the well-meaning interference of her
father to arrange her marriage, Elizabeth's heart still lies with the boy,
Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), who is now a blacksmith with a deep resentment
of pirates which stems from his mysterious past.  Before the conflicting
love triangle can come to a head, however, the fort comes under attack by
the pirate crew of the Black Pearl, a supposed ghost ship that haunts the
Spanish Main, and Elizabeth is taken hostage along with the
pendant.Upset about the unwillingness of the British Navy to go after her, Will
decides to enlist the aid of Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), a pirate
being held in the fort awaiting a hanging.  Sparrow is naturally more then
eager to escape the gallows, and becomes especially intrigued when he
discovers Will's name.  The two unlikely companions gather a scurvy crew and
then set sail after the Black Pearl, Turner on a rescue mission and Sparrow
seeking to settle a vendetta.The standard pirate movie cliches of forcibly boarding ships under naval
engagements, talking parrots, sword fights and buried treasure abound, but
the film has such a refreshingly energetic pace that every plot point seems
fresh.Depp is the most pleasant surprise in this film, as a dishonored pirate who
laughs at danger while reminding everyone that they're in the presence of
greatness.  He manages to make Sparrow a unique character, with a laid back
demeanor even during crisis and a strange loose limbed drunken-like gait
that resembled the way he stumbled about in `Fear and Loathing in Las
Vegas.'  He takes a shine to young Will, playfully dropping hints about the
boy's father's past.  Depp took what should have been a textbook role and
brought life to what could have been a lackluster adventure
tale.Geoffrey Rush also excels as the Black Pearl's Captain Barbossa, the leader
of a supernatural crew of cutthroats searching the seas for the artifacts
that will restore their mortality.  Rush is energetic but not hammy, and
steals his scenes by underplaying his role instead of trying to fill the
screen.  Along with Depp, he is the brightest star here.Bloom and Knightley are serviceable but not outstanding, certainly up to the
task of the stunt work but not the human side of the story.  They're in love
because the script says so, and there's little chemistry between the
two.Apart from the Disney World ride the movie takes its title from, it probably
owes equal parts of inspiration from `The Mummy,' `The Evil Dead 2,' and,
because of all the skeletons, `Jason and the Argonauts.'  The movie offers a
few unexpected surprises and charms, and stands out like a diamond in the
rough against most summer dreck.  Plus you have to have to admire any film
in the 21st century that delivers lines like `avast me hearties' and `shiver
me timbers' with a straight face.

******
20 July 2003
10

This was a fun movie
this was mainly becuase of  Johnny Depp
he really went all out on this part.
It was like taking the ride in  Disney World


******
20 July 2003
10

This was a wonderful movie! Johnny Depp was hilarious, and Orlando was
great! Anyone who has any interest in pirate movies, or just adventure
movies should see this, it was fantastic! This movie is definately a must
see!

******
20 July 2003
10

All movies should be this much fun to go see.  With most of the junk
Hollywood produces now, I hate to spend $20+ for two tickets, 1 medium
popcorn and a bottle of water, so that my kid and I can waste 90 minutes
of
our life, and come out thinking, "well that movie was OK...."  I watch
tons
of movies, but generally wait till they're on DVD so I only blow $4 at
Blockbuster if it sucks.HOWEVER, cheapskate that I can be, POTC was worth every penny!!! Even
though
some people here might think it was too long because Hollywood's getting
us
trained with the 80-90 minute flicks so they can cram in more showings at
the theater, I loved every second of it. I'm 40 and my daughter's 11 and
we
both had a blast.  And what's odd is that neither of us is particularly
into
"pirate" movies.  It's just so much fun to watch, it's appropriate it was
based on a Disney ride, because that's exactly what it is, a 2 1/2 hour
long
movie ride that lets you escape from reality into a wonderful
fantasyland.They couldn't have picked a better cast for this picture.  Johnny, Keira,
and Orlando were perfect in their roles. Keira reminds me of a cross
between
Brooke Shields and Jennifer Garner. She's pretty without being too
perfect,
but portrays the damsel in distress that can swing a plank of wood like
McGwire if need be. Orlando is a great romantic anti-hero/love interest
for
Keira's character. And as a dirty, natty-braided, gold-toothed, and, you
assume, smelly pirate, Johnny Depp was as sexy a swashbuckler as you'll
ever
see on film (and MINOR SPOILER...) he doesn't even do anything resembling
a
love scene!  Any female that doesn't want to jump his bones after seeing
one
of his side-ways glances needs to get her hormones checked!Filmmakers who are wondering why their movies don't make money at the box
office need to take a long hard look at this one and learn some
lessons.A)  If we want to see serious issues or be depressed, we can turn on CNN.B)  Movies don't have to be crammed full of blood, gore, profanity, or
nudity to be a smash hit.  You'll make more money when parents can take
kids
to a show without being embarassed or horrified every 30
seconds.C)  When we go to a movie, we know the people on the screen are acting,
and
the actors know we know they are acting, so let your actors have fun with
this, and subtly wink at the audience every now and then.  It doesn't hurt
and we viewers love it!D) Don't underestimate the intelligence of the movie-going public, even
the
kids.  Movies can be hysterically funny with well-written, well-timed
lines
without resorting to stupid slapstick, pie-in-the face, or toilet-themed
humor.My kudos to the creators of POTC.  They did everything right, and I
predict
they'll sell a fortune of DVD's when this comes out at the stores.  I know
I'll be buying it the first day.  This is a movie I'll want to watch many
times over.

******
20 July 2003
10

After ticket prices for an admit have rose to a staggering $9.25 in my
area,
I have tried to avoid the theaters as much as possible and wait for the
dvd
to come out and rent it at my local Blockbuster for a measely $3.00.
Surprisingly, after seeing Pirates of the Caribbean in Hawaii where the
price for a movie is $6.25 (I'm in California now) I have had the urge to
want to see the movie again, even if i have to pay nearly $10 for an
admit.
I've gone twice already and am going a third and fourth time soon!This movie is SO WORTH your money and more importantly, your time. It's
not
your typical, "arrgh.." peg-legged, one eyed pirate movie, its an original
movie that this summer has been dying to find. In a summer full of
seemingly
endless sequels, Pirates proved to be the diamond in the rough. Full of
spectacular action sequences, a humble love story, and a very subtle (yet
hilarious) humor, its got something for everyone. Johnny Depp gives the
performance of his life in this movie and most definately proved that he
is
a genious in the acting world, and is one of the most brilliant underrated
actors ever to be on the silver screen. Granted, I have appreciated Depp
for
his other acting roles in his career, but his work done here is
incredible.
His Captain Jack Sparrow is one of the most intriguing characters in movie
history. With his humorous wit and indescribable charm, he is the pirate
that guys want to be, and girls want to be WITH. Orlando Bloom and Keira
Knightley, as the young beautiful stars in this movie, give the movie its
youthful spunk, adding to the fact that their acting job was terrific.
Definately rising stars! Geoffery Rush was outstanding as Captain
Barbossa,
and the greatest villain that you loved to hate.Overall, this movie was just unforgetable. It is a good 2 hours and 30
minutes to spend with whoever you want, and is worth seeing more than
once,
even if you have to shovel out a couple of dollars in your wallet. Believe
me, you won't be disappointed!!! And you'll walk out of that theater
wanting
to see it again!!!

******
20 July 2003
10

This film is a swashbuckling good time.  The acting is superb (though
Depp
steals the show) and the plot is witty and entertaining.  In terms of
purely
swashbuckling delight, it does rival (but does not surpass) Rob Reiner's
"The Princess Bride".  A good show all around.

******
20 July 2003
10

I thought this was a really great movie.  Johnny Depp deserves an Oscar
for
his performance of Captain Jack Sparrow!!  He was awesome!  Also, Orlando
Bloom gave a great performance, as did the other characters.  I can only
hope that the rumors are true and a sequel is in the works.  What a
swashbuckling adventure and fun time! 

******
20 July 2003
10

I'll admit that I am not hard to please when it comes to the action genre.
When I go into a theatre to watch an action film, I'm not expecting any
kind
of magnificent acting jobs or solid plots. But I was pleasently suprised
with POC.For starters, this movie had tons of quality action in the form of sword
play, gun fights, town raids, and naval engagements. Second, it was
solidly
funny, especially Depp. His character and acting job is so funny, you
might
mistake him as some veteran comedian if you had never seen any of his
previous work. Third, the imagery is simply compelling - many film makers
should strive to meet this level of quality. Fourth, if you are male, miss
Knightley is extremely easy on the eyes. You looks like an ultra-hot
version
of Wynona Rider with long hair. And finally, the plot is actually way
better
then I expected. It keeps you so engrossed that the 2.5 hour run time
passes
in the blink of an eye.I would have to reccomend this film to everyone. I will no doubt buy the
DVD
the day it hits shelves.

******
20 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp is hilarious, Orlando Bloom is gorgeous, and Rush is the best
undead pirate that I've ever seen! If you love adventure with a dash of
romance or if you just love Johnny Depp, this movie is for you!  It's
truly
a high seas adventure that you won't soon forgot.  

******
19 July 2003
10

This movie is extremely interesting, a blast of fun, and won't put you to
sleep, some pirate movies are so boring because all they do is show how the
pirates live. This one they accomplish that objective, and accomplish a very
interesting obstacle, with a thrilling ride to keep you awake. The acting in
here is another great part of the movie, Johnny Depp does a great job
because every other second his eyes get bigger, then smaller and etc. Johnny
Depp also walks weird the whole movie. Orlando Bloom does a tremendous job
of a man who loves a woman, you can see that when he looks at her he doesn't
care about anything else. The woman (i forgot her name) does a great job,
she to showes that she doesn't care about anything else while she looks at
him. They both really show there amount of chemistry in this movie. Captain
Barbosa had a real job of it, being tremendous as a bad guy, having the
accent that most pirates have, basically he plays the role of a bad guy
pirate extremely good. Another great part of the movie is the script, while
coming with an action sequence, the movie has bit parts of comedy, showing
how much pirates like rum, how much pirates do wrong to woman, and sometimes
how stupid pirates are. A great script also because of the use of language.
The directing job by Gore Verbinski (also did a great job on The Ring) was
tremendous again, also a big help to the actors by telling Johnny Depp to
move his body a certain way. Telling each actor the way to act. Overall this
movie turned out a masterpiece, thrilling, comic, interesting, dramatic, and
romantic. Ten out of ten I gave it, I would suggest you see this one to if
your up for a blast of fun, and a thrill.

******
19 July 2003
7

I took my 14 year old son and his friend to see this movie. It was an
enjoyable, but predictable flim. The story was fairly interesting but
tended
to drag in places. I felt it would have been better if about 20 minutes
had
been deleted.Johnny Depp was very engaging as Capt. Jack Sparrow and Orlando Bloom and
Keira Knightly were appealing in their roles as Will Turner and Elizabeth
Swan.  Geoffrey Rush gave a very solid performance.  Good flim to see with
your younger teen family members.

******
19 July 2003
10

This is the best film ever!  It has the best duo ever, which involves a
love
story of an awesome girl!  It is hilarious and adventurious at the same
time!  This movie is based on the best theme park and the greatest ride
ever!  As soon as I get money I'm gonna watch over and over!


******
19 July 2003
10

First, I must admit I oringinally was interested in this movie because
Orlando Bloom, the Legolas of The Lord of the Rings was staring in the
movie.  That and I liked Pirate movies of the older days such as Black
Swan.When I went to see the movie I was surprised at how good the movie was.
It
had a interesting plot and wasn't your normal Pirate movie.  Normally the
romance is between the Pirate and the leading lady, but Orlando wasn't a
Pirate...at least not in the way He thinks.It has a interesting back story as well and was incredably funny.  I went
to
see it twice and laughed more at the second time simply because some of
the
things I realised were funny because of later events.I recommand this to anyone one who loves pirate movies and doesn't mind
laughs and good fun.  It is a wonderful family film although It might not
be for younger children because of the skeletons.This is definatly a repreive from the lackluster films of the
year.

******
19 July 2003
9

Have loved pirate movies since the '30's and what fun this one is, thanks
to
the versatile Johnny Depp!  Have never seen him in a movie that I did not
like.  The special effects were very special.  It was not too long as many
critics claimed, and I just might go to see it again!

******
19 July 2003
10

Since its release on July 9th, I've seen this movie 3 times, and enjoyed
it
more with each viewing. With a wonderful cast that included the humorous
Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and the evil cursed pirate Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush), this film should contend for an Academy Award in 2004.
This
movie encompasses the entire realm of why pirates were viewed as dishonest
buccaneer looters who only cared about themselves and gold treasures.
Former
captain of the Black Pearl, Jack Sparrow wonders through the Caribbean
looking to regain his ship from the mutinous Captain Barbossa. After
saving
the life of the beautiful governor's daughter Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightley), Sparrow runs away from the British Naval Fleet and meets the
son
of a famous pirate, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom). After Elizabeth is
kidnapped and taken to the Black Pearl, Sparrow and Turner join forces to
rescue Ms. Swann, who Barbossa believes is the one who could shed her
blood
to end the curse. Sparrow manages to get aboard the Pearl, but is
unsuccessful in getting back Elizabeth and instead is marooned on an
island
with only a pistol. Once Barbossa learns that Will Turner is the only
blood
relative of the late William "Bootstrap" Turner, he tries to kill him only
to be rescued once again by Jack Sparrow. Once Turner spills his blood on
Aztec gold, Barbossa is shot, and the pirates are defeated, Sparrow is
sentenced to death by hanging by the leader of the Royal Fleet, Commodore
Norrington. Sparrow's life is saved by Turner and he escaped to regain
control of the Black Pearl, while Will and Elizabeth proposed their love
to
one another. An incredible, edge-of-your-seat action comedy that will make
you want to see it over and over again. Truly the best movie of the year
and
worthy of some hardware. I recommend it even for those who don't fancy
adventurous films.  

******
19 July 2003
10

When I was growing up as a young lass there was nothing I wanted to be
more
than a pirate.  I've been to Disneyland and ridden Pirates of the
Caribbean
more times than I can count.  I must also admit that even as an adult I've
always come home with a few plastic swords and sacks of pirate treasure.
There is something about the thought of being a pirate that totally frees
someone.  Of course we all picture honorable scoundrels much like Indiana
Jones or Han Solo to name some modern ones (First two characters I thought
of, Harrison Ford however is not in the film).  But the rogues we have
here
are just as lovable, each in there own way.From beginning to end this film is a winner, everything on the scene is
gorgeous and full of rich color, filming in the Caribbean really made the
movie stand out. Personally I'm chomping at the bit to get the soundtrack.
About 5 minutes into the film I said to my friend sitting next to me
"Isn't
this great music?".  It's touching during the few quiet scenes and
suitably
bombastic when it comes to fighting always helping the story move along
and
reach the right emotional tone.Depp as so many other have already noted is simply remarkable in his role
and it the Academy had any sense whatsoever he'd at least be considered
for
an Oscar (not nessacarily win) but that won't happen God forbid an
action/comedey that is successful and appeals to everyone win something,
can't appear mainstream.  Keira Knightley and Geoffrey Rush fill there
roles
quite nicely, Bloom and all the other are ok but certainly not
outstanding.The plot...does really it matter?  Honestly it doesn't but that fact that
is
above par for a summer movie only make this movie more worthy.  And while
it
does get a bit long at 140 minutes or it barely noticeable.  Maybe about
10-15 mintutes could have been trimmed without losing anything.
All in all a 9/10, add another point for all the lovingly placed
references
to the ride i.e. , "That dog is never going to move" and you get my score
a
perfect 10/10 

******
19 July 2003
10

This movie was the best we've seen in awhile.  The special effects are
incredible, the dialogue is quick, Johnny Depp is characteristically
unique
with
his interpretation of the character (and his hilareously appalling
costume
additions which, thank goodness, Disney allowed), Geoffrey Rush has
equally
appalling teeth and does a great job as a diabolical villain, and the
plot
never
lulls.  I couldn't find an appropriate moment to leave my seat to pee
through the
whole movie.  You need to see every minute, so skip the soda.  We were
thoroughly entertained and may even go back to see it again (I don't
think
we've
ever done that).  We'll definitely buy the DVD.  Don't miss this one!
It's
too much
fun!

******
19 July 2003
10

I absolutely LOVED this movie!! This movie included action, humor, and
romance...all the actors were FANTASTIC!! I LOVED this movie!! 20/10!!
Most
definitely!!I hope they grab ahold of MANY Oscars...cause I know they deserve it!!
You
should REALLY see this movie!! It's great!! 

******
19 July 2003
9

This was the 'surprise' movie at the close of the Cambridge Film
Festival - and lived up to its billing.
At no time during this lengthy movie did my attention waver . This
was an occasion where the driving sondtrack did aid the pace of
the film, and did not obliterate the action, but complemented it.Johnny Depp excelled himself, archly camp for much of the movie.
The fight scenes   were all excellent, though my personal
preference was the first one between Johnny Depp's Captain
Sparrow and  Orlando Bloom's Will Turner.
Lots of small humourous notes - the false eye being struck by a
fork being a personal favourite!
I'm left wishing I could look as great as Johnny Depp does in his
make-up - that stays immaculate throughout, and the energy he
invests in the part makes him clearly the pivotal role in the movie,
wise-cracking all the way.
I'd never normally go to watch a film with this kind of story line -
now, I can't wait for it to open in the UK on August 8th - go
see!

******
18 July 2003
9

Man, after seeing my share of overhyped summer stinkers this year (I.E.
Matrix Reloaded, The Hulk and T3) I was really hoping for something good
with this movie. I WAS NOT DISSAPPOINTED. This is a great movie, one of the
best films I've seen not just this summer, but period. Where to begin? Gore
Verbinski has given us an action packed swashbuckler with lavash scenery,
fine performances, and wall to wall action in the mold of films of
yesteryear. The peformances by Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush
were fantastic. The special effects were also very well done. when the
pirates of the Black Pearl would step into direct moonlight...well you can
see for yourself, pretty impressive. With that said I will warn parents with
younger kids, even though the title is stampped with the Walt Disney logo;
this is a violent film with several parts that may scare the little ones.
Cool Movie...9 out of 10 

******
18 July 2003
10

This movie was fantastic. I thought it was a brilliant story to do. You
never really see pirate movie lately and I think they are great movies. This
particular movie was a different kind of pirate movie. I think this was
better because the different skeletons that attack people and they don't die
is great and very cool. There was only two things that I didn't like about
this movie. One reason is that I thought the movie would be better if
Captain Jack Sparrow would fight the skeletons with his crew instead of just
fighting his first mate who betrayed him. The other reason is that it should
have a little bit more adventurous scenes of action violence. But I also
thought the movie was hilarious. I thought the movie was great and I
recommend it to all viewers who like pirate movies and like Johnny Depp
movies. It was great and I give it TWO THUMBS UP. 

******
18 July 2003
10

I saw this excellent production today and was thrilled!
Everything about it was great!
All involved with the film did an outstanding job and should be proud of
themselves!
It was great to see the Lady Washington in full sail!
Disney has always been great at creating great fantasy films and I look
forward to the release of her next fantasy, The Alamo.

******
18 July 2003
10

There isn't much one can say about a movie with as much action filled stunts
and adventures as this one. Johnny Depp and his witty one liners on top of
amazing sword fighting, tells us that he is still as awesome as the years go
by. And who can forget Orlando Bloom and his suave, yet bold moves as his
character would die for his lady love (most of us ladies of course fell in
love with this charmer in LOTR). Together this smoking duo go on an
adventure that might end all their lives or make them heroes. Either way no
one can escape the CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL!!!!

******
18 July 2003
10

like i said before that was the best movie of the summer!! or one of the
best movies i ever saw!! johnny depp did so good as well as all the
others..i think they did a great job in producing this movie..i loved it
n
im watching it twice in the theaters!!!!I LUV JOHNNY DEPP

******
18 July 2003
10

I wasn't sure about the movie with Disney behind it but... hooray for
Disney! I believe they out did themselves.
Sexy actors, good specials effects, funny and just all around was a
great way to spend an afternoon.
Can't wait for the sale of the DVD!

******
18 July 2003
10

Like many, I'm sure, I was put off by the very concept when I first heard
about this movie.  Modeling a movie after a ride at a theme park?  Did we
learn nothing at all from The Country Bears movie?  But the more trailers
I
saw, the more snipets of Depp's performance ... I began to look forward to
the film's opening.  By the time it arrived at theaters, I could not wait
to
see it.I was not disappointed, not in the least.  This move is entertaining and
funny, start to finish. Jack Sparrow's entrance is a classic and Depp
never
lets up from there.  He is amazing, bringing something so unique to this
role that it is literally unforgetable.Some have remarked that the horror aspect may be a little strong for the
younger kids, but don't let that put you off.  If your children could
handle
either of the Harry Potter movies, the scare content of this film is no
worse than giant snakes or disembodied evil sorcerers.By last count, there are over 400 reviews of this movie after it had been
out for only a week ... that says quite a bit about it already.  There is
really no point in rehashing all the comments already being made.  I would
only reiterate this singular point: Don't miss this movie!

******
18 July 2003
8

In this movie Jack Sparrow was hilarious. The plot was good, but it was a
little long. I did enjoy seeing it. I think it would be neat if they came
out with another movie following this one. Overall this was a good movie
and
i do recommend you seeing it.

******
18 July 2003
10

I was a little skeptical in the weeks leading up to the release of POTC.
From what I could gleam from the previews I felt it had the potential to
either be terrific or horrific.However, after reading a few great reviews on the day of the film's
release
I let my hopes get up and for once was justified in doing so.  While the
basic love story between Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley left a little
to
be desired and sort of left parts of the ending a wee bit flat, the movie
makers wisely did not let that side of the story play too key a role in
this
film's overall presentation.  I should clarify that the actors'
performances
were good and did not carry the blame for the lack of spark and flame in
this romance.  It seemed more like the writers wanted just enough romance
to
move the story along where needed, but not so much as to interfere with
other more interesting aspects of the film.One thing became quite clear about 5 minutes into the show; this is Johnny
Depp's show all the way! However, it does help to have a great surrounding
cast to bring the thing off nicely.  Geoffrey Rush was fabulous as Captain
Barbosa and several of the minor roles were played with unusual comedic
brilliance as well.  While not a perfect, nor moving film, POTC has to be
one of the most entertaining and fun films I've seen in a long time.
Parts
left me fighting the temptation to start clapping and cheering.  Besides,
after a long week at the office it's just what I was looking
for.


******
18 July 2003
8

I enjoyed this film more than I thought I would.  Sure, the casting is
great, but does every ride at Disneyland need to be a movie now?But back on track, 'Pirates' is good fun.  Very tongue-in-cheek.  Johnny
Depp's Cap'n Jack Sparrow is hilarious.  Just about everything Geoffrey
Rush
does is worth watching.  Once I got past Keira Knightley's amazing
resemblance to Natalie Portman-it took me about half of `Bend It Like
Beckham' to figure she was too tall to be Natalie, so who was she?-it
wasn't hard to see there is much more to her than just a lookalike.
Orlando
Bloom is...well... Orlando Bloom (I'm smiling while I type this).  Though
he
really doesn't have much to do except look smoldery and act rashly, which
applies to Depp and Knightley, too, depending on the moment.It's a little hard to figure who the protagonist is, but I didn't mind too
much.  There are several bouts of swordplay that look great but lean
toward
the pointless side (please ignore the pun).  A lot more is going on than
is
necessary: a lot of quirky little subplots that the house enjoyed but that
don't really go anywhere.  Over all the film is really quite long, and
begins to feel like it; trimming would have helped, not hindered.  The
special effects were great, and Verbinski didn't dwell on them as other
directors would have (thank goodness).  All of that aside, though, I had a
good time.  I have always been impressed with Johnny Depp and thought him
capable of much more versatility than he receives credit for; I think this
piece demonstrates that versatility, as did the pleasant surprise that was
`From Hell'.  And he is hot, even with nasty teeth and eye-shadow.  Huzzah
that someone finally made a stomach-able pirate flick!  I'll give it a
B+.

******
18 July 2003
10

i went to the movie theater already loving the movie, when i came out i
was
in a Pirate phase! this movie has got to be the best movie of the year so
far. on a scale of 1 to 10 i would give a 100! i dont think the movie
wouldnt have been very good without Johnny Depp. he was the perfect man
for
the job. Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, and the lady who played Elizabeth
also did a tremendos job. how could someone not like this movie? every
little kid wants to be a pirate and it stays with us all our lives. Will
Turner said pirate blood runs though his viens. but i disagree it runs
through everyone and this movie really brings it out.
"You forget... I'm Captain Jack Sparrow!"
~dathomirprincess 8-)

******
18 July 2003
10

You would think that Gore Verbinski and Jerry Bruckheimer would discard
the
notion of making a pirate movie after Cutthroat Island and Pirates
'success'
(the first of which shut down a film company). Yet, undaunted, they set
out
to make Pirates of the Carribean. They made more than a movie, they made a
masterpiece.The Plot:
Very creative. Something that many movies now are lacking save for a
few.The Music:
Incredible. Many movies have a bland score that leaves a bad impression on
the movie. The score ranks up with that of the Lord of the Rings
movies.The Cast:
As if newcomer-turned-famous Orlando Bloom wasn't enough, they also tossed
Geoffery Rush, Keira Knightly and Johnny Depp in the mix, the latter of
which would be a shame if the Academy Awards didn't nominate. The
supporting
cast is well done as well.The Acting:
It wasn't surprising to see that Orlando Bloom did a great job, seeing as
how his acting in Lord of the Rings really stood out. Keira Knightly put a
good twist on the 'Damsel in Distress' stereotype by actually doing
something instead of just moping about and screaming like most Damsels in
Distress. However, Geoffery Rush and Johnny Depp really stole the show as
Captain Barbossa and Captain Jack Sparrow, 2 sides of the same coin so to
speak.The SFX:
Also would be a shame if the Academy Awards didn't nominate. The
transformation of the pirates is shown seemlessly and effortlessly. I was
worried that the SFX Team would 'forget' to transform a pirate into a
skeleton every now and then, but luckily they pulled through. The other
effects are spectacular too, such as the boats, scenery and what not. Even
some parts have better SFX than The Matrix ReloadedThe Twist:
It's a Disney movie. It's PG-13. Now if that doesn't surprise you, this
will. Blood, swears, explosions, people getting stabbed, people getting
blown up, people losing their eyes (sort of, if you've seen the movie you
know what I mean), use of alcohol, people getting their throats cut open,
some real creepy parts (the skeletal monkey was one of them) and to top it
all off, prostitutes... Disney should make more movies like
this.So far, 2003 has been a fairly good year for movies (aside from Dumb and
Dumberer, Legally Blonde 2, ect.) but this movie has shone out from the
rest. However, the year is nearly drawing to an end, but there are still 2
more great movies coming out: The Matrix Revolutions and Lord of the
Rings:
Return of the King. All in all Pirates of the Carribean will stand the
test
of time, much like Lord of the Rings and The Matrix will, and hopefully
its
impending sequels will too. I really hope the sequels don't put the
Pirates
underwater, like 99% of Disney sequels do.


******
18 July 2003
9

Harking back to the days when Pirate films and fantasy films were being
released with decidedly more regularity this film really brings the young
imp inside us all out, the sort of young imp that takes delight in
watching
classic fantasy swashbucklers from the 80's such as the Princess Bride. I
am
a big fantasy film fan, I love to plonk on oldies like Krull, Labyrinth
and
this is the sort of film that really brings that desire back again, not
quite to the same level that Lord of the Rings did but still this is a
fantastic adventure movie.What you have here is your basic pirate/fantasy adventure storyline,
there
is treasure involved, ghosts and of course damsels to be rescued not a
Princess but a governors daughter in this case. Considering that the last
big studio pirate film was the pap Cutthroat Island and that this film is
based off of a theme park ride the signs did look ominous that this would
be
pants, but the cast involved plus good scriptwriters and a very excitable
trailer put pay to that and as such this has struck gold at the box
office
and is a critical and public success.The film has great set design, it looks great and there is real scale to
it.
The action is exciting, the score is chest thumpingly good and the film
creates a sense of magic, this is movie making magic, it's a feel good
summer movie and has likeable characters and a witty script, hence this
seems to have got the best audience reaction I've heard in ages. This
movie
is about having a great time, it's not particularly meaningful but it is
great all round family fun that doesn't suffer from dull patches or
failed
expectations.The cast are all good. Orlando Bloom is given a lead role for the first
time
and he handles himself well, Keira Knightly is feisty and sexy as the
damsel
in distress, who of course is whooping ass with the best of them by the
end.
Then there are Brit actors such as Jonathan Pryce, Jack Davenport and
Kevin
Mcnally who are all good. Geoffory Rush takes delight in chewing the
scenery
as the bad guy, but in typically show stopping form is Johnny Depp as
Cap'n
Jack Sparrow who plays him out like Keith Richards from the Rolling
Stones
(I s*** you not). Depp is superb, he makes the movie, the movie on its
own
right is pure fun and a good time but Depp really does add another level
to
it with his charm and his humour. He has boundless energy throughout the
film and his cockney accent is faultless, Depp proves once again what a
versatile actor he really. Until watching this filming I had not enjoyed
a
film so much this year aside from Nemo and X2. It was a rollicking good
time
with great effects, and also very funny. This is good news for the
fantasy
film genre, with it coming alive recently with hits like Lord of the
Rings
and Harry Porter perhaps we'll see some more, while perhaps not with the
regularity of certain periods like the 50's or 80's. One of the years
best
most definitely.****

******
18 July 2003
10

Action, romance, adventure, and tons of comedy.  I laughed all the way
through this extraordinary movie.  You will sit on the edge of your seat
through the entire movie wondering what's next.  There were tons of
surprises throughout this unique story line.  It was totally awesome.
Captain Jack Sparrow tries to reclaim his ship, the Black Pearl, by
fighting
some pirates who deserted him on an island long ago.  The pirates who
deserted him found a treasure that was cursed and need the blood of
"Bootstrap" Bill Turner's only child to defeat the curse.  They kidnap
Elizabeth Swann, thinking she is the child.  Jack tries to rescue her.
Her
father and the Commodore who wants to marry her also try to rescue her.
Will she survive?  Will she marry him? You will definitely fall in love
with
this movie.  Anyone can enjoy it.  Old, young, men, women, boys and
girls.
It's a romantic comedy, action-adventure, thriller.  It is
AWESOME!

******
18 July 2003
10

When I saw the 2nd trailer for this film, I thought to myself that it was
"The Mummy" done at sea with pirates instead of in Egypt with mummies.
But
that's not a bad thing necessarily; this film is fun in an over the top,
tongue in cheek kind of way. More a parody of pirate films than a real
pirate film itself.Many people say that Johnny Depp makes this film as Captain Jack Sparrow,
and while he certainly is fun to watch, every goofball needs a straight
man
to play off of, and Orlando "Legalos" Bloom does that about as well as
anyone else out there would have. Oh and Keira Knightley is hot.The plot concerns Miss Keira being kidnapped by pirates (the ringleader
played by Geoffrey Rush) who think that her blood will break a nasty
curse
hanging over them, all they need is to cut her hand open on the gold
medallion in her possession by way of Orlando. The only problem is that
it's
actually Orlando Bloom's blood they need, not Keira's. But no one is
aware
of this right away so Orlando busts Johnny Depp out of jail and he agrees
to
help Orlando rescue the woman he loves.Chaos and mayhem ensues. It's fun! 

******
18 July 2003
10

I think that this movie is the best this year. Also Johnny Depp plays the
COOLEST pirate ever. He is really funny and shows that he can really
ACT!!
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley were also awesome!!The best parts of
the
movie were where Captain Jack Sparrow kept getting slapped by different
women. (" I don't think I deserved that and I may have deserved that!"
FUNNY)

******
18 July 2003
10

Being a girl who doesn't always go for the cute guys (i.e. Orlando Bloom)
or
the romantic side of things (i.e. Elizabeth and Will), I was looking
forward
to a good, action-packed movie that wasn't like any other one this
summer.
I got it.  Johnny Depp stole the movie with his hilarious presentation of
Jack Sparrow, and Keira and Orlando were just wonderful in and of
themselves
(why couldn't Keira have been picked to play Queen/Senator Amidala in the
Star Wars movies?!).  Nostalgic scenes relating to the actual ride,
powerful
music, and so imaginative it makes you want to go do SOMETHING relating
to
pirates. :) 

******
18 July 2003
10

I have to admit this movie was better than I thought it might be.
Johnny Depp is of course a great actor, and in this movie he displays
once again his extraordinary ability to develop a unique and memorable
on-screen persona in any movie in which he appears.  This ability is
made even more incredible by the staggering contrast between his
real-life self and the characters he plays.  Orlando Bloom has fewer
lines than you might expect, but he does a good job with what's given to
him.  Overall this movie is not heavy on plot or on character
development, but as an action movie about pirates it is as good or
better than one can reasonably expect it to be.  It may not be one of
the best films ever made, but it is certainly good entertainment for
your ticket money.

******
18 July 2003
10

It seems to me that the only people who didn't like this movie were the
movie critics and their wanna-be's. And it's been my experience that if
the
critics don't like it, the audience does. Vice versa. It's one of those
facts of life, I guess.Now, one could say it's because 'the audience just doesn't understand' as
if
we're just lambs to the slaughter, mindless drones who gobble up anything
the masses tell us is fun and cool.Normally I'd agree, but I think this is one instance where the audience
knows something the critics don't, not the other way around. Oh how I long
for the days when a movie was watched for enjoyment and not the lighting
concept alone.Oh wait, we're there. *in a stage whisper* Someone forgot to memo the
critics and the wanna-be's.And for those who said they got lost in the plot twists, I just have to
say:
you can't multitask either, can you. That's not a question. A statement of
fact.In short (or long as the case may be. I do tend to ramble.) I loved this
movie. I found it entertaining in everyway possible; the F/X, the romance
(a
personal fave of mine), the comedy, the action. And that last one is
saying
something since usually I find the fight sequences in movies rather drawn
out.I've seen this movie four times. That's right four. I enjoyed every minute
of it. Not once did I feel the need to glance at the watch I don't wear.
And
I plan to see it many more.Sure you can say I have no life. That's your opinion and you're entitled
to
it. But seeing as it's my life, I think I'll spend it in a way that's most
enjoyable to me. And since I found POTC very enjoyable, that's one of the
things I'll do.I guess all I have to say is that those who didn't like it lost their
imagination a long time ago. That's not something you should be checking
at
the door when you enter a theater, just so's you know.On a final note (yes, I promise I'm almost done), for those nonbelievers,
take a look at the box office results. If the movie were that bad the word
would spread like it did with Matrix Reloaded. You wanna talk
bomb.JMHO.AL

******
17 July 2003
10

Well, what can I say that everyone else hasn't already said about Pirates of
the Caribbean (POTC)? Since Dec. 2002, one very good or great or FANTASTIC
movie after another has been released. I have been watching movies in
theaters now for about 40 years, and the quality of films this year has
never been better overall in my opinion. I have seen 3 films that I thought
were perfect, (I didn't think they could be improved at all), these were
Finding Nemo, Terminator 3, and now POTC. Of course, the plot was great,
incredibly entertaining, non-stop ACTION. Great special effects which were
TOTALLY BELIEVABLE (if you can believe in undead skeleton pirates!). Fine
acting (with Johnny Depp giving maybe the best acting performance of the
year-it helped that he had such a great script & all those funny lines). The
costumes, sets, ships all seemed so real, it was easy to believe we were
REALLY back in the pirate age set in the Caribbean Sea. If this film is not
nominated for an Academy Award, then there will be no justice (of course it
WON'T, any movie that is popular & makes more than $10 million at the box
office won't be considered ESPECIALLY if it is the best movie that
year.)I have seen every Johnny Depp film he has made I believe. I haven't always
liked them, because some were too oddball or weird, but he has ALWAYS been
interesting & fascinating in them. For those who are too young, (and he
probably doesn't want to remember), his first hit film was "Nightmare On Elm
Street 1", where he stood out among all the dead teenagers. About the same
time, he became the star of a great TV show on a brand new FOX TV network,
called "21 Jump Street". A great show which only lasted a few years I
believe. He was great in "Cry-Baby", he was PERFECT in "Edward
Scissorhands", he was great in "Benny & Joon", he was PERFECT in "What's
Eating Gilbert Grape" (the movie that started 
Leonardo DiCaprio's career as a star). In this film, Johnny Depp should have
won an academy award for best actor (maybe for E.Scissorhands
too.)
In "Ed Wood", he & Bill Murray were FANTASTIC, in "Don Juan DeMarco" he was
the only good thing about that movie. Same with "Legend Of Sleepy Hollow".
In POTC, the rest of the cast is good, but Johnny Depp IS OUTSTANDING!!! If
this movie doesn't win an Academy Award, then Johnny Depp DESERVES to win
one! Disney/Bruckheimer announced a sequel already, I believe they said
Johnny signed up for it. IF HE DIDN'T, then don't bother making a sequel. He
is the reason I could have watched the movie for 6 hrs. instead of 2 & 1/2.
He was that fascinating (with the help of the great script!) I hope to go
back & see this film again, along with "Finding Nemo" & "Terminator 3" which
were equally perfect also.

******
17 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is an excellent movie.  I am not big on the whole
pirate issue so I was unsure if I wanted to sit 2 and a half hours to watch
this but time was well spent seeing this movie.  For it being a PG-13 Disney
movie it was spectacular with it's action sequences and the story line all
together.  Though the ride at Magic Kingdom is totally different but idea
was somewhat the same, the movie turned out great.  I am going to go and see
it again.  Let me tell you it's worth seeing.

******
17 July 2003
10

This was truly a joyful and entertaining movie that from my point of view
was most likely this years worth a watch!!The curse of Cortez is set on the pirate ship crew by the name of Black
Pearl. In order to remove the curse they have to find the missing gold piece
they had stolen and to spill the blood of a dead pirate after they retrieve
the last piece.
Unfortunately the missing piece is in the hands of the beautiful Elizabeth
Swann, a governor's daughter in love with the local blacksmith and swordsman
Will Turner. When Elizabeth is kidnapped by the crew of the Black Pearl,
Will Turner accepts the help of the low-life pirate Jack Sparrow, but little
does Will know about the true story of Jack Sparrow, as they sail after the
Black Pearl.We were very hesitant to see this movie in the beginning, but after reading
the reviews we decided to give it a chance and we were surprised and in awe
of the wonderful story it contained. The movie has it all, action,
adventure, humour and a wonderful cast. Orlando Bloom makes a wonderful
appearance outside of his superb portrayal of Legolas in Lord of the Rings
as Will Turner, the young man, who knows so little about his family. Johnny
Depp was quite surprisingly brilliant as well as the strange, wigged out and
2-faced pirate Captain Jack Sparrow and least of all the beautiful Keira
Knightley, who portrayed Elizabeth Swann is a definitely rising star in the
chain of Hollywood actresses!
I rate this 10 out of 10 and then some!

******
17 July 2003
10

I really enjoyed this movie. Its highly entertaining, and performance by
Johnny Depp was amazing. I just love him. I only have one small complaint:
romance between Orlando Bloom's character and Keira Knightley character, was
not believable at all. They had no chemistry, no sparks, nothing, at one
point i asked myself "why is he risking his life for her?". Well, i guess u
cant have it all. But it doesnt matter, this movie is highly entertaining,
with good actors (johnny depp), good action and good story. See it!!Ratings: 10/10

******
17 July 2003
10

I just loved this movie! I can't wait to see it again. Johnny Depp is
absolutely brilliant as Captain Jack Sparrow. Not only is he incredibly
hot
to look at, but his ability as an actor never disappoints. He has
wonderful
comic timing and his accents are always perfect. He has the ability to
fully
become his character and he definitely becomes Captain Jack Sparrow in one
of the best performances of his career.
Geoffrey Rush and Orlando Bloom also shine.
Between the action packed fight scenes, the fantastic special effects and
the likability of the characters I think the pirate curse on Hollywood has
finally been lifted!
This movie will be a huge blockbuster hit! Kids and adults will both enjoy
it.

******
17 July 2003
9

I've always been a fan of swashbucklers.  Add Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom,
and Geoffrey Rush, and you have the perfect movie as far as I'm concerned.
This movie was such fun and full of surprises.  You can't go wrong with
this
one.  Well worth your time.

******
17 July 2003
10

Very entertaining film! Very authentic costumes, realistic sets and props,
and a real joy to watch. Johnny Depp seemed to be having a lot of fun with
this role, and in my opinion is one underrated actor. He has an excellent
comedic gift, as well as a fine talent for drama. This is one film to just
sit back and enjoy!

******
17 July 2003
10

I remember the first time I saw previews for this movie on my computer a
long time ago and I couldn't wait to see it. When I finally did see it,
it
didn't let me down. I would have to say it is one of Johnny Depp's best
movies and he certainly made me laugh. All the actors in the movie were
very
good and I think this is a good follow up for Orlando Bloom after he did
Lord Of The Rings.

******
17 July 2003
9

For all those out there who are knocking this movie, you are being much
too
harsh! You can't expect a life-changing experience from a Disney movie
based
on pirates and plunder, but you can expect a lot of fun.I would have
never
guessed the idea came from a ride in a theme park...With a cast of Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, and Kiera Knightly, the
constant
witty humor and good vs. bad battle makes it so much fun to cheer for the
good guys (Knightly and Bloom) and also the not so good guy (Depp). Depp
was
outrageously funny in this movie with his quirky humor and gestures, all
three leads did an incredible acting job. Whenever Bloom had a funny line
he
delivered it perfectly, which just goes to show how versatile an actor he
can be. I was impressed at the writing and plot which was easy to follow,
and had fun twists along the way.This is really a movie that can appeal to everyone. 

******
17 July 2003
10

When I went to see this movie, I didn't expect it to be as good as it
looked! It was better! The movie was a good length for the content it
had. I
personally think it was very well written, and the fight scenes were very
well choreographed.The actors were very well chosen and played their role very well. I can
remember the audience laughing at most of Johnny Depp's witty comments
and
jokes. Geoffrey Rush was an outstanding pirate captain, almost made for
the
role. Orlando Bloom played the charming blacksmith, in love with Keira
Knightley, the governor's lovely daughter.The whole plot was interesting and you could tell the writes knew what
they
were doing. The crew of the Black Pearl was under a curse because they
stole
coins of Aztec gold. Until all the pieces were reunited, the curse could
not
be broken.In conclusion, Pirates of the Caribbean was not just a mediocre pirate's
movie. It is worth seeing, and most would agree you are not wasting your
money on watching it. I would give it a 10/10. I strongly suggest you
watch
it, while it is still out. 

******
17 July 2003
7

The show could definitely be shaved down for time (2 and a half hours!).
It's a lot of fun though, and it's worth seeing just to watch Johnny
Depp's
unique performance.  Geoffrey Rush also puts out a great performance as
the
cursed captain of the Black Pearl.  The CG of the cursed pirates in the
moonlight is amazing!

******
17 July 2003
10

Cursed pirates lead by Captain Barbossa sail about on a ship that comes
from
legend to seek out stolen Aztec gold that laid the curse upon them for ten
years. The must spill the blood of the holder of the final piece, and lift
the curse forever.  Now, Will Turner, a Blacksmith, must find the aid of a
surly pirate captain Jack Sparrow to save his one true love, Elizabeth
Swann.  And, although Jack Sparrow may seem dishonest, it's the honest
one's
you should look out for, honestly.The first trailer I had seen for Pirates of the Caribbean was pretty
mediocre, and only showed the actors who'd be starring.  As soon as
"Johnny
Depp" graced the screen, I thought that there was some home for this poor
looking movie.  Then I went to see it myself, and was totally blown out of
the water.  I've seen it three times myself now, and I feel every time is
worth it.  It's fun hilarity that the entire family can enjoy, and it'll
spurn parents on to read pirate stories after bed time.


******
17 July 2003
10

The movie was exciting and humorous thought out the entire viewing. It
has
just about everything from sword fighting to romance from the humorous
Jack
to the loving Will. I have seen it 3 times already and will buy it as soon
as it comes out. All the actors did a great job and I can't wait to see
the
next one. I just hope it won't take more than 3 years. I would recommend
this movie to anyone who wants to have a good laugh and a bit of a
scare.

******
17 July 2003
9

As disheartened as I was to hear that a feature film had been made based
off
a Disney ride, I have to say that I was pleasantly surprised by this
movie.
Johnny Depp's performance as Captain Jack Sparrow really carries the
entire
film and is completely worth watching.This film also marks the only time I have ever seen CNN's movie critic and
the critics at The Onion's AV Club both say that a film was worth seeing;
that alone should drive you to the box office. ;) 

******
17 July 2003
10

This movie is seriously a great show. It has everything in it that anyone
could ask for out of entertainment and nothing you wouldn't want. Plus
for
disneyland buffs like myself the "inside" tributes to the ride has in it
are
amazingly hilarious. Johnny depp is absolutely the BEST person they
couldn't
have gotten. HE IS CAPTAIN JACK SPARROW!!! The on screen chemistry
between
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley is stunning. I have seen this movie
four
times already in less than two weeks of its run and I know I will see it
many times more. IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT YET...GO SEE IT RIGHT NOW!!!


******
17 July 2003
9

just got out of this movie like 20 minutes ago and i loved it, well not so
much it but him. Johnny depps role which all are raving about IS worth the
hype.  Ive never seen a more likable character in a summer movie he
brought
a screen presence like nothing i have seen before, and while he was
amazing
the movie itself was far from it, the cgi was top notch but it is a movie
about pirates so it wears on u a bit, but everytime i looked at my watch i
would miss some little gesture depp made that was hysterical, so i just
stopped looking at my watch, and i think geoffery rush's character is
being
overlooked by a lot of people he was excellent as the other captain with
some great one liners.  only real issue with this movie was legolas
(orlando
bloom) he was nothing special by any means and made me somewhat angery
because his character clashed so much with all the others, they all looked
like they were having fun but he was a little too serious. but all in all
a
great movie, and im impressed with disney this summer they put out 2 of
the
best flicks this summer, even though they didnt quite touch 28 days later,
or matrix reloaded. well done disney, and i think Depp deserves an award
for
keeping a 2:30 long movie alive by himself, not many actors can do
that.

******
16 July 2003
10

I admit, I originally went to this movie simply because I'm an Orlando Bloom
fan, and because the speciall effects were interesting. What I expected was
a mediocre Disney movie, lacking originality (it seems they have so little
of it anymore), especially because it was based off the ride. But...WOW! it
was the best thing I did on my birthday, going to see this movie. Worth the
money, worth the time (I didn't look at my watch once), and definitely worth
seeing again. The special effects are magnificently done, especially the
quick transitions between skeletal and non-skeletal pirates when they are
underwater. the actors did a wonderful job bringing the characters to life,
and the action was fantastic. For once, Disney surprised
me.

******
16 July 2003
7

It was okay.
Bad
1. Length- I was bored. :(Good
1. Geoffrey Rush :)
2. Johnny Depp :)Wasn't a fan of The Ring and Gore Verbinski almost won me over here,but
my
boredom overweighs all the good things.

******
16 July 2003
10

NOTE: THIRD PARAGRAPH CONTAINS SPOILER FOR EXTRA SCENE!Please see my other comment, with the one line summary of "One of the
best
movies of all time!" for more information. I believe that is what it was
called anyway.I recently saw this movie for the third time (once on a sneak preview 2
days
early, once with a friend, and today with a relative) and I still am not
at
all sick of it! I love this movie! Everyone does a wonderful job,
especially
Orlando Bloom ;D and Johnny Depp : ). I give it 10 out of 10, and I would
give it more if possible. Disregard the rumors that it is "too long"-
none
of the three times I have seen it have I felt bored or anxious for the
next
scene. Pirates of the Caribbean will keep you on the edge of your seat
with
excitement, or rolling on the floor laughing. Also do not believe it is a
kids' movie. Kids will enjoy it, but it is made for more mature
audiences.
Other false rumors say that the accents are all fake (NOT TRUE!!!) or
Orlando Bloom cannot act (WAY NOT TRUE!!! He is one of my 2 favorite
actors). All in all it is AWESOME!!!I just had to add another comment to tell anyone who did not stick around
for after the credits to tell them what they missed (NOTE: THIS IS A
SPOILER!!!) There is a quick scene after the hundreds of boring credits
that
makes waiting worthwhile. It begins by showing Barbosa's green apple
floating in the water just off the shore of Isle de Muert(o?). The camera
shows random sights like Barbosa's body, the coins, the water, the gold,
the
treasure chest, and then switches to a view showing Jack the monkey
swimming
over to the stone chest of the cursed Aztec gold. The monkey then climbs
to
the top of the chest, takes a coin out, and turns back into a skeleton
monkey. A perfect setup for a sequel! As seen on the Pirates of the
Caribbean trivia section of this site, The Curse of the Black Pearl was
added to the title after the first few previews came out in hopes that
the
movie would do well in the box office and a sequel could be made. And
things
are certainly looking promising! The movie has done excellently in the
box
office and I for one am highly anticipating (and hoping for) a follow up.
Let's just hope it will be as great as the original!

******
16 July 2003
10

Oh, I can't say enough good things about it. There was minimal swearing,
no
explicit sex scenes or skanky outfits, and the script was great. My
personal
favorite character was Jack Sparrow cause he was sooo cute and did such a
great job. At first I went to see it because Orlando was in it, but when I
saw how much better Johnny was at acting, I loved it because of him.


******
16 July 2003
10

This is the first film I've loved since Chicago...Everyone was terrific! I
will definitely be purchasing Pirates as soon as it comes out on DVD. I
can't say enough about this film.  Visually it's wonderful, the music is
out
of site.  Perfect summer adventure that you must see!

******
16 July 2003
9

This is a must-see-movie for this summer... tons of fun, and some great
acting. Good special fx too! Johnny Depp is the best pirate i've ever seen
in any pirate movie... not that i've seen a lot but hey.. he's great in
this
movie... and so is the rest of the crew.. the story is easy and fun to
follow.. i think this movie will be enjoyable for a wide range of
people...
Go see it now!!!

******
16 July 2003
10

I just got back from seeing the Pirates of the Caribbean and all I can
really say was it was one of the most fun and entertaining movies I have
seen in a long time. To me, it was more than just another "Johnny Depp
movie" it was a look back at my childhood. I can remember being 5 years
old
on the Disney ride having the time of my life. In all honestly, there
were
several parts in the movie that almost looked like the robots from the
original ride (such as the part when the 5 pirates are in the jail cell
holding the bone so the dog with the keys in it's mouth would come near
it)
It was just great. The action was intense, the music was good, the sets
and
special effects were awesome, the acting was terrific, and the story line
was nothing less then pure fun. Johnny Depp's portrayal of Captain Jack
Sparrow was nothing short of amazing. You can tell he was having fun with
it and really got into the character. I have never really been a big fan
of
Geoffrey Rush but he definitely pulled off playing Capt. Barbossa without
a
doubt. The only minor thing this film lacked was Orlando Bloom (you know,
Legolis Greenleaf the elf) I think in LOTR he is excellent but this might
have been over his head, although, he wasn't horrible, I'll say that. One
thing that stood out to me was the violence. I loved it. It was, by far,
the most ruthless Disney movie I have ever seen. Basically the bottom
line
is, I walked into the theater thinking this epic wouldn't be all that
good
and after 2 1/2 hours I walked out thinking it was a definite 4 star
movie.
Reccomend for sure ... extremely entertaining!

******
16 July 2003
10

A summertime Jerry Bruckheimer-flick isn't going to get Academy
attention;
too bad, because this is the stuff of Best Actor awards.The movie's a lot more fun than you might expect. Depp is a key reason
why.

******
16 July 2003
10

The only thing I did not like about this movie was the end. It was over
way
to fast! I loved it and will buy it the minute it's out. The rating was a
little severe, I think. It's clean (except for some violence) no swearing,
and no nudity like what we see nowadays.

******
16 July 2003
10

This is a fun movie. I took my 5 kids ages 7 - 16 and they ALL loved it. The
action is great and the special effects work well and are not overdone.
Johnny Depp is wonderful as Capt. Jack Sparrow. He plays the part so
realistically that you begin to believe he's really a pirate. Geoffrey Rush,
Orlando Bloom, and Kiera Knightly are all wonderful in their portrayals but
Johnny Depp seems to steal the show. Major kudos for his accent. It's always
nice when an actor takes the time to get the character into his blood. It
makes it, as I said before, realistic.It's very expensive to take 5 children to the movies but we've seen
"Pirates" twice, now. That in itself should say something. My 7 yr. old
asked when we could buy it as soon as we walked out of the theater. My
answer? ........YES!!!!

******
16 July 2003
10

After seeing Pirates of the Caribbean, I was so sorry that I waited until
the day after it was released to see it.  It was fascinating and
captivating, and very unlike all of the other childish movies that Disney
has created.  I originally went in the theater as a fan of Orlando Bloom
and
I left the theater as a fan of the movie.  I can't wait to go and see it
again.  

******
15 July 2003
7
Why is it that every blockbuster now thinks that it has to come in at over
2hrs, some judicious editing especially in the fight scenes and this film
could have come in at about 1hr 40 and been much tighter for it. Instead the
film finds itself in the doldrums for long periods at a
time.Johnny Depp as the eccentric Captain Sparrow is wonderful, Orlando Bloom is
so-so, in several fight scenes you were half expecting him to whip out his
bow and fill the enemy full of arrows.Jack Davenport, plays Jack Davenport, a stiff English middle class guy, just
as he plays in Coupling and Ultraviolet but it's nice to see him getting
exposure on the Big Screen

******
15 July 2003
10

About:  Well, I wont tell you much about what this movie is about, because I
walked in not knowing much, and I loved discovering things a long the way as
I watched.  Here's what I WILL tell you: The Black Pearl is a ship of cursed
pirates that are after the one thing that can free them from there curse,
and Will Turner (Bloom) who needs the help of Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp) to
stop them.What I liked:  What DIDN'T I like about this movie? It was great,
swashbuckling entertainment!  And despite the fact that it's a Disney movie,
it really isn't something I'd take my 6 year old little brother to go see.
What it does have from Disney is the typical pair of characters as comic
relief in the form of two arguing British soldiers, and two bumbling
pirates.  It also is very funny, with jokes that never are never "hit and
sinkers."  I love Johnny Depp's character, Captain Jack Sparrow. Johnny once
again proves that he is one of the finest actors of today, and while he is
drop dead gorgeous, he loves to play against his looks, which is one of the
great things about him.  His character is one of the highlights of the
movie, a roguish, quirky, crazy? maybe, but oh so clever pirate. I also
liked Elizabeth Swann (who is that actress) who, thank God, is like a normal
girl.  They didn't give her amazing sword fighting abilities, or try to make
her into a "butt kickin' cleavage showin' vixen" that we often see on movies
today.  While she does do her share of pirate bum kickin' and don't worry
Jeff and Vince, she's a very pretty girl, despite the lack of cleavage.
C'mon, this is Disney folks.  The pirates are menacing in both their day
form as ragged wild men, and in their night form as skeletons.  Also, the
monkey scared the beejeezus out of me.What I Didn't Like:  Please do read above, where I said "What DIDN'T I
like?".Bottom Line:  For a great blend of action, adventure, and comedy, go out and
see Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl
soon!

******
15 July 2003
10

Full of fabulous comedy, epic battles, and plenty of twists and turns, this
movie was well above my expectations: it was amazing! Johnny Depp is
brilliant as always, perfectly cast as the witty pirate. The plot was
exciting and kept me guessing until the very end. I can't wait to buy the
dvd. You'll want to watch it over and over again. This is not a summer movie
that will be forgotten when the season is over, but is the summer
blockbuster we've all been waiting for.
  

******
15 July 2003
10

If Pirates of the Caribbean was a more serious flick, without the
laughoutloud subtle humor and hilarious parts that everyone loved, I
guarantee you, Johnny Depp would have had an Oscar Nomination. His
performance was inspired, entertaining, and strong. If he was the only thing
the movie was worth seeing for, it'd easily be a 7/10, but the other lead
roles were pulled off well, and the story was very entertaining. Against a
movie like AI, for instance, this 2 hour plus movie flew right by. I only
hope they don't butcher the sequal.10/10

******
15 July 2003
8

Johnny Depp.  I've always loved him, but I love him even more now.  He takes
this movie in the palm of his eccentric hand and makes it
sing.
But also give credit to Gore Verbinski & Co. for making a slick,
well-crafted and highly entertaining film.  The effects were great, and
Geoffrey Rush comes in a close second to Depp in inspired performance.Sure, you can nitpick and say the fight scenes and some of the other actors
were a little flat, but that would be entirely missing the
point.
By the time the credits rolled I couldn't remember having this much fun at
the movies in a very long time.

******
15 July 2003
10

You have to see this movie!! If not for Johnny Depp's hotness, then for
his
wonderful performance as Jack Sparrow. He was brilliant and his character
was absolutely the most lovable in all aspects.This is the best non animated film by Disney yet. I look forward to
possible
sequels to this film.:)

******
15 July 2003
9

Ahoy, me hearties!  The pirate movie be back and, blimey, if it be
keelhaulin' the scurvy-
ridden bilge that be marooned in yon summer theaters.Pirates Of The Caribbean: Curse Of The Black Pearl is a big, sprawling
adventure.  The
kind you don't see anymore and it's a damn shame.  The script is smart.
It
allows the
characters to figure things out.  It keeps you in the film.  Yeah, it may
be
a tad too long
at its two hour and twenty-four minute run time, but it flies by a good
portion of the
time.The acting is superb with not a single person acting in any self-conscious
way that
would reveal they are in a pirate movie.  Geoffrey Rush is great as
Captain
Barbossa with
his pirate-like growl.  He even utters "Arrrr" much to the delight of the
audience.
Casting off his turn as an elf, Orlando Bloom takes on the unlikely hero
role with vigor
enough to prove his acting chops.Of course, the real star here is Johnny Depp as the fey pirate, Jack
Sparrow, a pirate
captain without a ship.  In fact, Depp gets the best movie entrance this
summer in a
leaky, sinking dinghy.  His character he claims is based on Keith Richards
of the Rolling
Stones and it shows.  He is half-crazed and swishes around delivering the
best lines in
the film.  Yet, he is completely believable and never goes (dare I say
it?)
overboard.  I say
it's about damn time the Academy stood and noticed one of our generation's
most
versatile and creative actors, but that's just me.Pirates is one of those adventure films that will have you grinning with
pleasure through
most of its high-spirited hijinks and is right behind Finding Nemo for
pure
summer fun.
Ye be a swab if ye miss this one.  Sink me, if I don't be givin' this
movie
four st-arrrrs.      

******
15 July 2003
10

As soon as I heard that they were making a movie based on the ride, I knew
I
had to see it. Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom made the want to see it ever
stronger. And I must say, I had more fun sitting in that theatre than I
have
had in a long time. Honestly, this one of the best efforts I've ever seen.
Johnny Depp was Jack Sparrow. I don't mean to say that he merely played
Jack
Sparrow. His actions and attitude and accent and voice all came together
so
perfectly that you forgot that he wasn't actually a pirate, sailing the
seas, completely mad and wonderfully amusing for it. Orlando Bloom played
such a Will Turner that made it obvious that the part was all but written
for him. His eyes held all the emotions that Will felt. He was an inspired
choice. Two very enthusiastic thumbs way up from this movie-goer. The
critics were wrong, yet again. 

******
15 July 2003
10

I actually went to see this movie twice- and for ten dollars per ticket
(ah,
gotta love New York) this means something.I was initially dragged to this movie by my younger sister with very low
expectations, considering it was Disney-made live action, a PG-13, and the
previews weren't that great.I was very pleasantly surprised to say the least.  This movie put me in
the
mind of "Indiana Jones"- a great action movie with some comedy thrown in-
and ultimately very entertaining.  Unlike most action movies today made
mostly for the teen-to-20's male crowd who will spend on video games, etc.
this movie wasn't just an endless repetition of big guns, explosions and
breasts.  Sure, all three of those made it in there (and some of the
battle
scenes are a bit long), but they didn't dominate- they were part of the
fabric of the story and atmosphere.Both times I saw it, all but three of the jokes got laughs from everyone
in
the audience (and the sight gag that introduced Capt. Jack Sparrow was
great).Two words: Johnny Depp.  Not only is he unbelievably sexy (eyeliner and
all
- sorry :) )  but his character is amazing- funny, well-acted, and really
the moving force behind this movie.I enjoyed the other actors' performances as well (though Kiera Knightley
seemed to be struggling to stay on par a bit- but I do give her credit for
the physicality and comedy required).  Orlando Bloom, although required by
the script to make a few cheesy faces and declarations, does a good job as
the classic man out to save his love (and even has the look of a classic
movie star).The only detractors were the over-the-top cheesiness of the romance and
the
attention paid to the Black Pearl pirates (or perhaps that attention would
be ok if they were more pirate-like and a bit less hammy?)Overall, I thought this was a refreshingly good movie- something that has
been missing from summers for quite a while.  Can best be summed up in one
word: "Entertaining!"  Go see it!


******
15 July 2003
8

This film delivers. I had high expectations when I walked into the
theater,
and for some reason I half expected to be disappointed. Some movies that
get
too much premature hype leave the viewer unsatisfied, but not so with
Pirates of the Carribean. The film grabs your attention from the
beginning,
when young Elizabeth Swann discovers the Aztec medallion that will put
the
story's events in motion years later.Verbinski did an excellent job choosing his cast. Johnny Depp as Captain
Jack Sparrow entertains throughout the movie with his rugged charm and
offbeat personality. Though Depp always seems to choose odd roles, he
does
them well. Rising stars Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley as Will Turner
and
Elizabeth Swann also performed well. This movie will probably make Bloom
a
household name, and draw more attention to Knightley.The plot may have a few loopholes and the movie's running time of two
hours
and twenty-four minutes may be a bit lengthy, but overall Pirates of the
Carribean is a captivating film with adventure, romance, comedy, and a
superb cast to help the movie reach its full potential.


******
15 July 2003
9

Johnny Depp was amazing.  He commands to screen.  Orlando Bloom is the
perfect hero.  He is both vulnerable and seemingly invincible.  There was
never a dull moment. Be sure to use the facilities before the movie opens
because you won't have another opportunity.  Relax and
Enjoy!

******
15 July 2003
9

Went and saw this over the weekend...highly recommended! Totally awesome
pirate flick...it had everything: adventure, magic, humor. It is destined
to
become a classic.I can always tell how really good a movie was by how much I am still
thinking about it the following day. T3 was also very good, loved it, but
the next day I was grasping to try and actually recall a scene from the
movie that really spoke to me. Curse of the Black Pearl was just an
all-around epic, lavishly done. The 2 hours and 15 minutes flies by at a
constant quick pace. Images and scenarios are yet milling around my furry
monkey brain (and there is a monkey who plays a major role in the film as
well!)I really feared it would be a lame movie. It is, after all, modeled after
an
amusement park ride. But WOW is this NOT a lame movie. I found myself
talking with a gnarly pirate accent the rest of the day. There are also a
few scenes (try and spot them) that are replicas of scenes from the ride
(added for fun). I spotted two of them.IMPORTANT NOTE: Do not leave the theater until the credits finish
rolling,
as there is a small "surprise" after the credits.(9 out of 10) I deducted one point for the credits, which went on for
what
seemed like ten minutes.

******
15 July 2003
9

There is one rule that I try to always keep when watching a movie: don't
have expectations.  When I'm seeing a movie in the theater, I also add on
to
just see the movie for fun.  Well, due to all of the comments I read on
here
saying that the movie was great, I broke my own rule.  And surprisingly,
I
was still impressed.This movie is one that I will definitely be seeing again in the theater,
and
buying as soon as it comes out on DVD (hopefully with director's and
actors
commentary).  When I saw the first preview for this, I thought "hmm,
interesting".  Then I started seeing more, this time with scenes from the
movie instead of just a list of the cast.  Finally, they started to
reveal
the basics of the plot, and I knew that I would have to see this movie.
It's based on one of my favorite rides at Disney, with an amazingly
contagious song (which is sung in the film), and I was looking forward to
seeing how it would be portrayed in a cinematic point of
view.Acting in this movie was near to perfect.  Johnny Depp gave one of his
best
performances ever.  No one would be able to tear their eyes away from
him.
His Captain Jack Sparrow wasn't what I was expecting when I first heard
of
his part, and it was a better character for it.  He wasn't the typical
pirate.  You expect a swagger, but he has a sway.  He seems to be
permanently drunk.  And although he is a pirate, he's honest in many of
his
tales, because no one would believe him anyway, especially as most of
them
are outrageous.  I would go to the theater again just for him
alone.Orlando Bloom, there so that young girls will go see this movie, does a
very
good job at his role as Will Turner.  Unfortunately, there wasn't that
much
to his role.  He's a bit too love-struck with Elizabeth Swann to be
interesting, though his role is needed in the film.  His sword play was
probably the most interesting part about his character, and the fact that
he
has pirate blood in him despite holding a hatred towards their
kind.The audience can almost feel Geoffrey Rush's evil in the movie as
Barbossa.
He plays his role well just as one would expect from an actor like him.
He
even gets to deliver a few of the funny lines, although most of them were
awarded to Depp.For the least known of all the leads, Kiera Knightley seemed to hold her
own
against veterans such as Depp and Rush.  While they were still the ones
that
eyes were kept on, she delivered a great performance, and will probably
be
awarded quite a few roles stemming from this film.There are few problems that I had with this film.  The acting was
impressive, the sets were amazing, the CGI well used, and the storyline
went
along smoothly.  One thing that I greatly enjoyed was the Errol Flynn
style
fighting, instead of the Matrix style that most films are trying to use,
despite the century that it is set in.  One doesn't need that sort of
thing
in a movie about swashbucklers.  Fluid is the only way to describe the
CGI
usage of the pirate skeletons.  It was as smoothly as the moonlight
shining
on them.  And the added references to the ride (ie. the dog with the keys
never moving, the song) gave it the perfect touch.  Granted, some might
complain about the length, but none of it was wasted.  Just don't drink a
large soda while viewing.  And the final scene with Will & Elizabeth
seemed
a bit forced.  But those can be forgiven when the film is looked at as a
whole.It was impressive from start to finish, grabbing the viewers attention
and
never letting go.  Like the ride, you can just kick back and enjoy the
show
going on around you.  Not one to miss.

******
15 July 2003
9

Finding a movie for my wife and I to see that I think that we would
enjoy isn't that hard of a task. Finding a movie that my wife, my 14
year old daughter, my 7 year old son and myself will all enjoy?
Well that is another feat all together.  'Pirates of the Caribbean' is a
combination of great writing, great acting and great visuals all
rolled into a perfect family film that offers something for everyone.
It is a definite `go see' for any movie lover.9 out of 10

******
15 July 2003
10

This movie is awesome!!!  I am already making plans to go see it a second
time.  It's the best movie of it's class that I've seen in a very very
long
time.  There's humor, action, romance and magic.  What more could you ask
for?  A definite must see!

******
15 July 2003
6

I read most of the reviews that the other users left and I was expecting a
lot more.  For a matter of fact the only movies that I had been highly
anticipating this summer was; Matrix Reloaded, Bad Boys 2, LXG, SWAT and
Pirates of the Caribbean.Pirates was a let down.  Not in the sense that it sucked.  It didn't suck
at
all.  Johnny Depp was hilarious, and the visual effects were great.
However
it just never seemed to flow seamlessly to the point where I could become
fully immersed in the film.My suggestion; see the matinee or wait for DVD.

******
15 July 2003
7

I had heard mixed reviews about this movie, some of my friends told me
that
it was the best movie they had ever seen, and yet others told me it was
garbage. Usually I am a harsh critic when it comes to movies, so I was
pleasently suprised when I enjoyed this movie quite a bit.To me it was interesting that Disney would make a PG-13 movie, but I
suppose
that is how the winds are blowing these days. But it worked out well.
Although I expected more blood and violence, and possibly cussing, I can
see
why the movie got the pg-13 mark even with it's lack of gratutity in most
13
films. Also I was suprised that the Director could have some redemption in
this movie after making the oh-so-awful and stupid "The
Ring".As for the acting, Johny Depp was also suprisingly excelent in this role.
I
dont think I would have casted Orlando Bloom for his role however.
*Spoiler*
At the end where he suddenly became a pirate it seemed more like he was
still a blacksmith pretending to be a prirate than anything
else.This movie is almost two and a half hours long, but never was too boring.
The pace was constant and didnt drag on. Although long, it ended where it
had to and I didnt feel borded or gyped.I give Pirates of the Carribian a 7 out of 10.

******
15 July 2003
10

I couldn't believe how good this was. I went in expecting it to be
good....but no more than that. Just "good". It was outstanding! I was so
surprised. The acting, the writing, visual effects (physical/special) were
amazing. This, so far, is the only 2.5 hour long movie that I will gladly
see multiple times in the theater. Gore Verbinski really shows his
versatility coming from directing "The Ring", which I thought was great -
again unexpectedly. I will definitely be on the look out for his future
projects. With these 2 movies he jumped right into "My Top 10 Favorite
Directors" list.

******
15 July 2003
10

I've seen it twice this week and loved it.  It's a very funny,
entertaining
movie.  If you want to have some fun, enjoy Depp, beautiful locations,
interesting attire and ships, this is your movie!Stay through the credits and drink up me hearties, yo ho!

******
15 July 2003
10

All I can say is WOW.The special effects were great.  They flowed very well within the film.
There is not much gore, very little blood, and no curse words except for a
few British sayings. The backgrounds and settings were beautiful; they
make
me want to travel to the Caribbean.As for the cast, Johnny Depp was incredible. He really made his character
come to life in a very unique way. I don't remember any other pirate in a
movie having anything like his personality.  He stole all of the scenes he
was in. Orlando Bloom did a great job as the conquering hero. I was more
impressed with his acting in this film than I was with his acting in Lord
of
the Rings.  All of his fans will be swooning in the aisles of the theater.
Geoffrey Rush did a wonderful job as the villain. There were times that he
made me just sit back amazed at his character. Keira Knightley was a
beautiful heroine. She was strong, smart, and witty enough to make me feel
like cheering a couple of times.Make sure when you watch it you take a look at the end of the credits.
There
is some film at the very end that you shouldn't miss.

******
15 July 2003
9

Okay, I admit I went to Pirates to see Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp in
tight pants, and that was all I was expecting.  I was so amazingly
surprised
by the quality of Johnny Depp's acting, how well Orlando and Johnny played
off each other, Rush's awesome bad guy performance, and the quality of the
special effects, that I can't wait for a sequel to come out.  Anyone who
hasn't seen this flick yet had best go.  Don't walk, run, or fly to the
theater, sail in for a rollicking good time.

******
15 July 2003
10

All right you insecure excuse for men.  Yes, Depp's character was
unconventional, but Depp added real depth to it.  Obviously those of you
questioning your own sexuality had a problem the sayshaying of a
swashbuckling pirate.  Depp's character of Sparrow was magnificent.  The
character's layers were wonderfully teased at and by the end of the movie,
I
was wishing I was the love of Captain Jack Sparrow instead of the Black
Pearl, much to the dismay of my husband.  It is a wonderful movie.  I have
seen it three times already and plan on seeing again.  I just love men in
boots carrying swords.  They make me swoon.

******
15 July 2003
9

Totally enjoyable movie.  Depp's overacting works well as he turns it into
the eccentricity of the character.  The story line is good enough to carry
the film through, and with strong performances from the supporting cast
(G.
Rush) this film delivers.  Hard to believe this was based on a
ride!Go see it and you'll want to sail the high seas in search of
treassure.

******
15 July 2003
10

I loved the film it was Gr8 I think that it was 1 of the best movies
disney
has made in years!  The movie was not only exciting the first time I saw
it
I was on the edge of my seat not knowing what the cunning Johnny Depp and
Orlando Bloom would do next!! The Other elements that interested me were
the
stunts and special effects having the pirates turn into skeletons before
your eyes were spectacular, the list of stunt men and women names in the
credits were very long! One thing concerned me that "bootstrap Bill"
William
Turner Senior if he was shot off the Black Pearl, was he a living
skeleton,
wouldn't he be a living skeleton also with the rest of the crew? If he was
he would be in the ocean unable to die giving him in the neighborhood of
10
years to get to land or be picked up by a ship! Whatever happened to him?
Overall the Pirates of the Carribean is a "MUST SEA" that is sure to send
you to the high seas!Other Movies I would recommend: Lord of the Rings The Fellowship, Lord of
the Rings The Two Towers, Legally Blonde 2, and Finding NemoOther Movies I would not recommend: The Hulk


******
14 July 2003
10

This movie was a burst of concentrated fun, with not a moment wasted. This
is one of the best films I've ever seen. Everything about this movie is
note-perfect; every character, every nuance, every ship and sail.
Bruckheimer and Disney have really outdone themselves (this more than makes
up for Pearl Harbor). Johnny Depp's performance is amazing and even funnier
than his Ichabod Crane from Sleepy Hollow. Orlando Bloom does a great job in
his first major non-Legolas role. Keira Knightly does fine, and so does
Geoffrey Rush and the other cast; I could go on and on. The writing (and
even ad-libbing) is great, as is Gore Verbinski's direction. This beats
Cutthroat Island, Treasure Planet, Sinbad, every recent pirate/
sea-adventure movie out there. Why, this is the best pirate movie I've seen
since The Goonies, and that's saying something. If you haven't seen this
movie, then what are you waiting for? Or should I say, "Arrr! What are ye
waiting for?" Drink up, me 'arties, yo ho!

******
14 July 2003
10

More than any other actor of his generation, Johnny Depp has fascinated me
the most. Save for the choices of Brad Pitt, Depp's depth in the roles he
has chosen clearly puts him at the head of his class. His portrayal of Jack
Sparrow, in this Disney winner, is a composite performance that cannot be
compared to any I have ever witnessed. Rush, Bloom, and Knightley are
excellent in their respective skins, but Depp's Sparrow is the reason to Fly
to see this movie. Like his predecessors, Messrs. Flynn and Lancaster, each
scene is an ode to what a real Swashbuckling Movie Star should be. Haven't
had this much fun at a Movie in a long time. And the proof of this pudding
is in the spontaneous applause you will see and hear at the end of the
story(p.s. stay through the end credits). Lord, last time I experienced
THAT, was easily 40 years ago. GO take yourself and anyone you know who
enjoys escapist entertainment and dive into Pirates of the
Caribbean.

******
14 July 2003
10

I actually wasn't too high on Pirates Of The Caribbean because so many
blockbusters were coming out this year. Well, The Hulk and The Matrix:
Reloaded were both disapointing. Finding Nemo, an animated adventure, was
the best film of the summer going into this past weekend. I even saw The
League Of Extrordinay Gentlemen before I saw Pirates. What a mistake that
was. I have not had that much fun watching a movie since Austin Powers 2.
The movie was funny and exciting, with great special effects and even a love
story. It could actually be a date movie. Johnny Depp is awesome as Jack
Sparro (I mean, Captain Jack Sparro). But he doesn't steal the entire show
because Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom and Kierra Knightly were all very good.
Even side characters such as the two bumbling red coats and the two bumbling
pirates added lots of humor. I can't wait to see this movie again, in which
a disapointing summer season, this movie is #1.

******
14 July 2003
9

I went to this movie half expecting it to be nothing more than a hokey
Disney POS. Boy, was I surprised! It was actually very entertaining. Not
what you'd expect from Disney at all. I knew Johnny Depp could do comedy bits... so the fact that his character
was so lovable was not a surprise. However, this was the first time I've
seen Orlando Bloom do a bit of comedy mixed into the action, and he did it
very well. The movie was filled with funny bits, plenty of action, well developed
characters (my fav), and a decent plot (another key factor).So what's there to complain about? The only thing I can think of is the
make-up. Johnny Depp was made to look like a freaking nancy boy! He was
wearing enough eyeliner to scare Marilyn Manson. I could've done a better
job. Even after what seems like hours in the water, no one's 10 pounds of
mascara was running. Unbelievable!The special effects were amazing, (particularly the skeletons changing form
in the moonlight as they walk through the water), and somewhat disturbing,
(wooden eyeball... that's all I have to say).But overall, this was a very enjoyable movie. If you don't go to see it for
the gorgeous men in shredded shirts... see it for a good chuckle and some
cool fight scenes (esp. the scene in the blacksmith shop). It has some very
funny bits as well as tense battles. This was ultimately a very entertaining
film.One last thing... avoid looking too long at Orlando Bloom's hat in the final
scene. I felt I would go blind if I had to look at that dumb feather for
more than 10 seconds. It brought a new definition to the word "fugly"... or
"f#$%ing ugly" as it were.   

******
14 July 2003
10

I couldn't say in a 1,000 words what I truly thought of this movie. First of
all, I credit Johnny Depp with being the best Captain Jack Sparrow possible,
no one could have done better. Not only was his performance great, but he
looked stunning; at the age of 40, this married man who has two children can
still captivate the young female audiences with not only his looks, but his
amazing ability to completely devote himself to the character he's
playing.
  Ofcourse, my comment is to be about the movie. In my opinion Pirates of
the Caribbean was the best film ever. I enjoyed this movie to the fullest.
The graphics and animations were great and it was such a mix of genres, you
couldn't know what to think of it at first. Jack Sparrow made it a comedy;
Elizabeth and Will made it a drama; Barbossa made it a horror/fantasy film;
and so on.
  I loved this movie and I recommend it to everyone!

******
14 July 2003
10

This FUN and FUNNY move may be inspired by the Disneyland ride, but it's
true inspiration are the swashbuckling epics starring Burt Lancaster and
Errol Flynn (but especially Lancaster, The Crimson Pirate in particular). 
The opening scene of the beautiful Johnny Depp stepping off his mast onto
the dock and the underwater boat scene are both taken directly from Burt
Lancaster's movies.Orlando Bloom is just as wonderful here as in the Lord of the Rings trilogy;
I look forward to seeing much more of him.  It was also great to see Mr.
Depp back at last.  He is a marvelous actor who, despite great films and
Oscar nominations, never gets any respect.Plain and simple:  this is a fantastic film.


******
14 July 2003
6

I had high hopes for this film but I was a bit let down.  The story is great
and so is the acting.  In fact if it weren't for Johnny Depp's excellently
done character then I wouldn't even recommend the movie at all.  The biggest
problem (and it's a big one indeed) is that this movie is really slow in
spots.  If they would cut it down at least 30 minutes then it would have
been better.  Too many spots where it just dragged on and on.The fight sequences are good but too few.  Over all I basically enjoyed the
film but not like I had hoped.  Personally I think League of Extraordinary
Gentlemen was better.  This movie is worth seeing though it just could have
been better.  But you'll LOVE Johnny Depp as Capt. Jack Sparrow.  
:)

******
14 July 2003
10
...this movie totally rocked. They were right on the money with the cast and
just everything. I really liked Johnny Depp's character. He was probably my
favorite. But I also *loved* Orlando Bloom. He is sooo good looking and such
a good actor. I highly recommend this movie to anyone! It's so
good!

******
14 July 2003
8

This was a great pirate movie.  It has been a long time since a high budget
pirate movie has come out.  The last attempt was the dismal "CUTTHROAT
ISLAND."  And where that movie failed, POTC succeeds. POTC has everything that a pirate movie should have.  Plenty of
swashbuckling action, of course.  Lots of beautiful sailing ships.  Huge
pirate vs. Navy battles with side guns blazing and swords flashing. 
Mysterious islands with hidden treasures.  And of course, a great sword
fight showdown on top of a mountain of burried treasure. Of course, the highlight and the twist to this movie is that some of the
pirates are somewhat ghosts, suffering from a curse.  The special effects
team at ILM has once again impressed me.  The effects are amazing.  As the
pirates move around, passing in and out of the moonlight, they transition so
smoothly back and forth from ghostly skeleton to flesh.  It is seemless and
very realistic.  There are an amazing amount of special effects shots in
this movie that must have taken hours of pains taking work.  The special
effects are definitely worth seeing, and they do not skimp. More importantly, perhaps, is the story of POTC.  The story is very well
written, and the key characters of the script have very clearly defined
motivations.  Captain Sparrow wants his ship back and to take revenge on the
mutaneers.  The pirates want the curse lifted, and need the blood of one of
their own.  Elizabeth wants to be with the blacksmith she has loved since
childhood.  And he wants to be with her.  Naturally the pirates kidnap
Elizabeth and the blacksmith is off to rescue her no matter what, and to
discover his own origins.  All of these needs and wants are presented
clearly and quickly in the movie, and backed up with a lot of great action. 
This makes the movie a lot of fun to watch.The leading lady, Elizabeth, is incredibly hot.  They did a great job
casting her, because she is a lot of fun to look at.  But that brings me to
my only complaint about the movie.  She seems to be the only really hot girl
in the whole movie.  I think it could have used a few more hot girls.  But
then, I always think that.  There is a lot of great stunt work, with a lot of great rigging.  But the
stunts are not so over the top that they become distracting, which was the
case in both "CHARLIE'S ANGELS" movies.  POTC takes you back to stunts in
the style of an Indiana Jones film.  On top of a great story, great writing, great casting, great locations, and
great action, this movie is also funny.  There were many moments that the
entire audience was laughing out loud.  Go see this movie, you will not be
disappointed.  You will have a good time.Definitely worth the price of admission.

******
14 July 2003
9

I was a drama major many years ago and always stay through the credits
looking for names I recognize.  It pays off about 25% of the time.  Many
films deliver a tasty morsel or an extra scene or an out-take to ponder at
the end to keep you thinking.  I live for those moments.  I was all alone in
the theater when Pirates of the Caribbean really ended and WOW!  I can't
even talk about it, because no one saw it!  So stay. Watch. & Don't spoil it
for others.
  On to the review...anyone who reads my reviews knows all I want from a
movie is to be entertained.
I wasn't expecting much, but Pirates of the Caribbean delivered in a big
way.  I loved it from start to the end after the end.  Johnny Depp was
fabulous as Captain Jack Sparrow.  This guy has the most amazing range.  I
think he finally hit box office gold with this one though.  He was a bit of
a swishy swashbuckler with just the right comedic blend.  It wasn't until
near the end that I realized this portrayal had an actual reason in the
movie.
I thought he was just playing it over the top.  Anyway, this is a pirate
tale with a hero, a hero in training, a damsel in distress, a villain, a
ship full of miscreants aiding the villain, a ship full of good guys aiding
the hero, a worried father, a competitor for the ladies hand, hidden
treasure--with a curse,
and battle scenes to fuel nightmares for days!  I thought the storytelling
was unique and I loved the length of the movie, I'm sick to death of those
90 minute blurbs, I want something more for my nine bucks.  The supporting
cast was excellent, also especially Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa, the captain
of the cursed Black Pearl.  Keira Knightly brought a 90's flair to the film
as the not so helpless damsel
that added to the suspense & the fun.  Do yourself a favor, see this movie
on the big screen.

******
14 July 2003
6

It was hard not to be biased going into this film. Jerry Bruckheimer has
been responsible for some of the worse movies in recent memory: Kangaroo
Jack, Pearl Harbor, Coyote Ugly, Gone In 60 Seconds, Armageddon.
Nonetheless, the prospect of pirates occupying the bigscreen for a couple of
hours was quite appealing.There, unfortunately lies one of the film's weaknesses: it's too damn long!
A half hour of this movie should have been left on the cutting room
floor...maybe reappearing for the DVD release.Johnny Depp is brilliant as Captain Jack Sparrow...but i'm sure you've
already heard that in other reviews by now. Jeffery Rush's performance is
also noteworthy, however the rest of the supporting cast is mediocre at
best.Depp is amazing...but that in itself does not warrant throwing down $9 for
this movie. Perhaps if you stay in the theater and check another mediocre
movie afterwards it would be worth it. Otherwise, wait for the DVD. At least
then you have a remote available!

******
14 July 2003
10

I thought the movie was excellent. Johnny Depp as always gave his
character
150%. He truely was terrific. And as always Geoffry Rush did a great job.
Orlando Bloom, be he elf or blacksmith turned pirate, looked as hot as
ever
and did a magnificent job as well. 

******
14 July 2003
10

Forget Finding Nemo.
Forget Terminator 3 (such a disappointment).
Forget The Hulk, Charlie's Angels, and all the other wannabe
blockbusters!!This is the one movie you will remember as the movie of
2003.
Bruckheimer redeemed himself after disappointing Bad Company and laughable
Kangaroo Jack.Kudos to director Verbinski (whom I haven't heard of until
now...)
Ver-Bin-SkiGo, watch it!!
Go, enjoy it!!

******
14 July 2003
10

I was thoroughly impressed by this film. this was one of the only movies i
was excited to
see this year! I was wondering if it would pay off as the title rolled,
and
as a
fan who grew up with Disneyland and the ride... this movie paid off big
time
with many
easter egg scenes from ride. And hats of to Johnny Depp for his great
performance as
the "Captain Jack Sparrow" and to Geoffrey Rush for "Barbossa". This film
is
none stop! If
there wasn't much action going on" Jack Sparrow" would entertain you with
his charm
and wit. The look and feel of the film is reminiscent of the ride and was
made
possible through the stylish eyes of Gore Verbinski. "Pirates" stand among
all the
sequels and comic book based movies that have and will be released this
year. This is
truly a classic and will remain, just the like the ride!

******
14 July 2003
10

I thought this movie would be a turkey.  However, I really enjoyed it.
The
sense of humor made it a real treat.  If anything, it was a tad too long
but
overall I found it to be very entertaining.  I highly recommend this flick
as a refreshing escape.  

******
14 July 2003
9

Having been on the POTC ride hundreds of times as a kid, this movie was
FUN!
For Disney fans who really believed in the fireflys (which were trained
to
stay in the same spot), and the fire laden towns, and the soooo muddy
piggy
pirates - the movie puts you right back there.  The added bonus is Johnny
Depp creating such a wonderful character in Captain Jack Swallow.
Completely quirky, funny and fascinating.
Yo Ho!


******
14 July 2003
9

Most Disney movies that I've seen were nice, fluffy movies about happy
things such as fairies and pretty, pretty, princesses.  This one was
different in that it's a lot darker than the average Disney film, and more
crude, as well.  While the movie was very well written and well played
out,
parts of it didn't quite make sense.  The plot seemed to move quickly,
which
was usually a good thing, but not nescessarily.  For instance; there was
very little introduction for Johnny Depp's character in the beginning.  He
just popped up all of a sudden.  There were maybe one or two holes in the
plot, as well.  Overall, however, this was the best movie I've seen so far
this summer.  As I said, the story line was very good, and the selected
actors played out their characters perfectly (although more about the
characters was to be desired).  So, in short, this film is worth the $8 to
go and see in theaters.

******
14 July 2003
10

Exceptionally fun movie to watch.  Actors due terrific jobs to make the
movie both interesting and funny.  Depp's Character is phenomenal, other
characters are also well done.  Great movie for Disney to broaden its
horizons away from things like country bears.  Pirates is a must see for
people who like movies and want to see something that is both good and
just
plain fun.

******
14 July 2003
10

I very rarely see a movie in the theatre anymore.  I paid to see this
movie
twice. The entire cast worked very well together.  Johnny Depp and Orlando
Bloom had a great chemistry together.  I would love to see them do
something
else together.  After seeing it the first time, my son and I couldn't wait
to see it again, which we did two days later.  I highly recommend this
movie. It's a hardy pirate movie, but it's lite and enjoyable.

******
14 July 2003
10

WOW! This movie was GREAT! The action, the romance, the
comedy...INCREDIBLE.
Johnny Depp did fantstic as Jack Sparrow. He cracked me up the whole time.
Johnny is a terrific actor and I love all of his films, and he blows me
away
every time I see him (Plus, he's GORGEOUS). He's absolutely my favorite
actor. Well, he doesn't let me down this time. I think this was one of his
best performances. Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knighltey do very very well
considering they are still newcomers. You can really tell they had great
chemestry together on screen. Geoffrey Rush did terrific as he always
does,
and he was very convising as the bad pirate.I would recommend this movie to any age, (even though it's PG-13) because
evryone can enjoy it. There's something in the movie for everyone. Action,
adventure, romance, comedy, it's all there. If you haven't seen it, go see
it, and I promise, you won't regret it. Great movie. Two thumbs
up!

******
14 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is an entertaining movie filled with action,
adventure, comedy and even plot. The movie is long (approximately 2 1/2
hours) but I feel that the movie fits well in this amount of time and if
it
was any shorter the plot of the movie would have to be cut down. All the
characters fit well with each other and Johnny Depp did an especially good
job at playing his part. I thoroughly enjoyed this film and I recommend it
to anyone who wants to get their money's worth in entertainment at the
theater.

******
14 July 2003
7

Too much hype for this movie.  I was expecting much better.  Depp was
outstanding as Jack Sparrow and I expected some fantasy type elements, but
all in all the plot was weak.  I felt it started strong and finished weak.Side note: It is worth the money just to see Depps portrayal of Captain
Jack
Sparrow.  The character is lots of fun.

******
14 July 2003
10

I can't remember the last time I had this much fun watching a movie.  All
aspects of it were played out to near perfection, and the only things I
can
think of negative about it are only minor quibbles that for the most part
I
didn't think of until trying to force myself to look at a bad side of
things.At 2 1/2 hours, this movie does what only Fellowship of the Ring has
succeeded at in recent history, it runs the exact length that it needs to
for the movie to feel just right.  It is neither too long where you feel
like they are padding just because it's becoming a fad to make big movies,
nor does it run too short and feel like things were wrapped up too quickly
or easily.The acting is superb from all participants.  This is an ensemble piece,
with
multiple main characters, and it delivers an appropriately diverse and
layered performance.  Every player fills his or her role to perfection,
with
several standout performances by all leads, as well as by numerous
supporting characters (good and bad guys).  There were too many memorable
characters to go into listing here, but they really did an excellent job
of
giving the feel that there was more going on in the world they created
than
just what they showed in the film.The story was well thought out and developed much further than your
average
or even above average adventure films, yet it never got cumbersome or
confusing, and was perfectly paced.  It's also incredibly fun looking for
the easter eggs from the ride which they cleverly blended into
it.And one final, major plus...  The soundtrack is truly epic.  My entire
group
that I watched it with kept commenting, "I gotta get the soundtrack!"
Very
exciting, catchy music that will stick with you for a long time!  We don't
see much of that anymore.This movie is a breath of fresh air, and highly recommended
viewing!

******
14 July 2003
10

I thought Pirates of the Caribbean was a perfect mix of action-packed
fight scenes, love and devotion, and comedy. The acting abilities of
Johnny
Depp, Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightley worked off of each other
beautifully and Geoffrey Rush played Captain Barbossa better then any else
could have. I think this was a perfect opening PG-13 movie for Disney. The
classical ride (which I've gone on many times) comes alive through the
talents of director Gore Verbinski along with the talents of the cast and
crew. Definitely a must see movie!! 

******
14 July 2003
10

I love this movie and everything in it. Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp do a
perfect job on portraying their characters... I only had one problem with
this movie and that was it was to short. I have seen in two times and plan
to see it two more.This movie was dazzaling from the drunk and slurred
word
Capt. Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp)to the bright eyed determained Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom)to even the moody pirates. I do not see why people give
this
movie a bad review because it was anything but.I strongly urge people to
see
this movie, you will not regret it. 

******
14 July 2003
10

To begin with, my top 6 list of movies is as follows: #1: Harry Potter and
the Chamber of Secrets, #2: Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, #3:
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, #4: The Lord of
the
Rings: The Two Towers, #5: The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the
Ring, #6: Monty Python and the Holy Graile. You probably noticed that #3
on
my list is Pirates of the Caribbean. This movie, in my opinion, is a 10
out
of 10 must-see film. I attended a sneak preview on July 7th (2 days before
it came out where I live), saw it again recently, and am planning to see
it
again. I am also highly anticipating the DVD, and maybe even a sequel (if
there is one, I hope so!). Not to mention riding the ride at Disney World!
The premise is strange: A movie based on a thrill ride. But it certainly
lives up to the reputation of its namesake ride, and is by far the best
pirate movie yet to come out! Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) was my favorite
character, and one of my 2 favorite actors. Johnny Depp, odd as he is,
really made the movie as Captain Jack Sparrow. The storyline follows the
classic love story, but doesn't "go overboard" on it. Boy meets girl, boy
loves girl, girl gets lost, boy saves girl, girl loves boy. But there is
much more to the movie than that. I highly recommend this excellent movie
to
anyone. At 2 1/2 hours long, it certainly takes a while, but you'll find
yourself wishing for more. To find out more about the movie, go see it at
a
theater near you, savvy? (That's pirate for "understand?"). Avast, me
maties, and prepare yerselves for one of the best movies of yer thievin'
lives!

******
14 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Carribean was excellent, Johnny Depp stole the show! He was
perfect, his characterization was flawless, his humor was well-timed and
not
too over the top. The special effects were stunning, the scene with the
pirates walking underwater towards the end was especially breathtaking.
The
fight scenes did seem a bit messy though, they could have been more
choreographed, and did anyone notice that Orlando Bloom was an
underappreciated waste of talent? I mean, I'm not saying he didn't do the
best he could in the role he was given, he acted great and didn't ever
look
out of place, but maybe he should pick roles that better suited him. Well,
that seems a bit harsh. He was fantastic in this role, this role was a
good
one, the movie was a definite A, but Orlando Bloom can do so much more as
we've seen in LOTR. Maybe compared to LOTR, every other role is going to
look like a second-best. Keira Knightley definitely kept the damsel in
distress to a minimum, and she kicked butt when she could. She pulled off
the perfect balance of vulnerability and spitfire. Well done cast and
crew!

******
14 July 2003
9

Such a great movie ... a great family movie at that.  I have to say I
loved
every bit of the movie and loved how they actually intergrated the ride
into
the film.  If you love the ride and Disney, you'll love this film.  If you
love good adventure and comedy, you'll love this film too!  I highly
recommend it and I'm hard to please when it comes to movies.


******
14 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp was fantastic! I couldn't get enough. The overall story was
hilarious but I don't think it would have worked out without Depp as
Captain
Jack Sparrow. The story follows "Captain" Jack Sparrow with his dream of
becoming captain of his own ship once again. When Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom) offers him just that in order to save his love Elizabeth Swan
(Keira
Knightley). They are faced with the fact the shipmates on the Black Pearl
are, indeed, dead. This causes a problem because they are incapable of
winning back Elizabeth. The funny antics are guaranteed you to laugh until
you cry. ****

******
14 July 2003
10

I will admit, the reason I went to see this movie was because I truly think
Orlando Bloom running around in sexy clothes is WORTH every cent of money I
pay! When the movie started, however...holy c**p! I have never laughed so
much in a theater in my life. Johnny Depp is brilliant, totally surpassing
anything he has ever done! His comedic timing is priceless and his portrayal
left me at a loss of words. Orlando as the love-struck Will was also
jaw-dropping, though many people say he was just there to be there and look
good. I think Orlando is one of the actors we will be seeing a LOT of.
Geffory Rush kicked major a** as an evil pirate who will stop at nothing to
regain his life, and Knightly knows how to swoon anyone. The movie all
around was brilliant, one of my favorites!

******
14 July 2003
9

Disney flicks aren't what they used to be, and that's a good thing for
adults. Sure, they still crank out the silly kids' movies that have just
enough adult humor to keep the parents relatively happy. But this one is
not
for kids.It's an action-adventure comedy that doesn't insult its audience with
unbridled silliness. It was cleverly written and excellently played,
especially the role of Jack Sparrow by Johnny Depp.Though seemingly shallow, the character has surprising depth. Depp plays
him
as a quasi-homosexual, macho swordsman with a heart. He delivered his
comic
punch lines with impeccable timing and flawless expressions. He was the
best
part of a very good movie.Is Sparrow the hero or the villain? Sometimes it's hard to tell, because
he's a little of both. He is a pirate, after all. So one would expect that
he would have a streak of evilness about him. And so he does. But it's not
an overriding character flaw, as he redeems himself on more than one
occasion.Pirates of the Caribbean was a marvelously funny, action-packed adventure
movie. It holds your attention throughout its 2-and-a-quarter hour running
time. I usually say that if a director can't tell his story in under two
hours, something needs to be cut. But this movie pulls it off throughout
its
length.I highly recommend it and gave it a rating of 9.


******
14 July 2003
10

I walked into this movie thinking that it would be an action/adventure
flick
with some drama thrown into it.  And while it turned out to be all this
anyway, it was so much more.  I couldn't believe how hilarious this movie
was!  I thought it had an interesting plot, and the casting job was
perfect.
I mean, who's gonna argue with looking at Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom
for
two hours???  Anyway, I had no problem going to see it a second time.  It
was totally entertaining and I would love to see it again!

******
14 July 2003
10

This movie was great. Johnny Depp's performance alone is amazing. He plays
an excellent Jack Sparrow. They certainly cast the right actor for that
part. And Orlando Bloom....he's such a cutie! Lots of action and
adventure.
Definitely see this movie. You will not regret it.

******
14 July 2003
10

I really liked this movie, Johnny Depp was faboulous, he stole every scene
he was in. Orlando Bloom was great too but didn't even compare to Jack
Sparrow's character. Johnny Depp is an amazing actor. I can not wait to
see
this movie again and again!

******
14 July 2003
10

This movie was so good that I still can't believe it.  I loved every
moment
of the movie and never found it long or slow.  This was undoubtedly my
favorite movie of the year (Matrix Reloaded and Holes were my previous
favorites - and no, I'm not under 30 LOL).  Johnny Depp deserves an
academy
award for his brilliant performance IMO.  It reminds me a bit of Lee
Marvin's comedic character in Cat Ballou, which I believe he did win an
academy award for.  Not that the characters were that similar, but yet
both
roles provided the actor with the chance to really get into the role and
create a totally unique character, and even though they were traditional
"bad guy" roles (i.e. pirate, outlaw) they had heart and were funny and
were
indeed really the good guys.  The FX are amazing, the story is amazing,
the
actors are amazing....what more can I say but check out this
movie.

******
14 July 2003
9

As far as entrances go into a film, only Darth Vader surpasses Captain
(never forget the prefix to his name) Jack Sparrow.  Depp steals this
movie
from the first scene he is in on.  I love Legolas, but i don't really want
to see Bloom play him in every one of his films.  He did not take his
character in a different direction from the swashbuckling, sleek, bravery
in
the face of certain death in this film.  There was charisma in this film
as
opposed to the other "blockbuster" opening this week (ehhemm.  cough hack,
LXG cough, hack.)  Keira Knightly was delicious in her portrayal of a
non-stereotypical, albeint a little predictable damsel in distress yet in
love woman of the era.  The effects were very impressive.  What can I say,
Bruckheimer knows how to blow crap up.  This movie is not one of those
"absolutely must see" movies, but it is worth going to go see in the
theatres.  

******
13 July 2003
10

All I could say during this movie was "wow"!  It was so unlike any disney
film I have ever seen.  When I went to see it, I was prepared to see a loud,
action/adventure type of movie, and yes, this movie did have all that but it
was also VERY funny!  This movie has got to have the smartest lines I have
ever heard.  It was very original and fun.  Johnny Depp was hilarious as
"CAPTAIN" Jack Sparrow and Orlando Bloom did an excellent job in more of the
serious roles.  Keira Knightly was equally elegant most of all.  BOTTOM
LINE: Great Cast & Very Fun!  FoR aLL To SeE!

******
13 July 2003
7

Johnny Depp is a good actor, has always been a good actor, and will always
be a good actor.  With that said, Geoffrey Rush also did a fine job as the
leader of the cursed pirates.  While it is fun and good, it isn't perfect. 
It is a little tame for a pirate movie, but that is to be expected from
Disney.  Anyway, fun stuff all the way through, that doesn't have you
checking your watch.  It didn't feel like 2 and 1/2 hours. 
7.5/10

******
13 July 2003
9

"The Curse of the Black Pearl" is a sun-drenched pirate adventure story of
the second tier which combines with first rate special effects and engaged
acting to create a very entertaining movie- one certain to be included among
movie "classics".
Employing many of the usual pirate movie themes and locales, (and, if you
look closely enough, incorporating several very carefully reconstructed
scenes from the eponymous Disneyland ride) "The Curse of the Black Pearl"
reproduces storms at sea, broadside fussilades and deck to deck combat with
thoroughly updated techniques and technology which is truly a pleasure to
behold- assuming you like movies with such plot necessities in the first
place.  It reminded me of the old movies I used to watch on Saturday or
Sunday afternoons when I was growing up (I am in my mid-forties), but
improved 1000% in terms of special effects and technological
prowess.
I have never really understood the aura enjoyed by Johnny Depp, but he is
actually quite entertaining in the role of the erstwhile pirate captain
trying to take revenge against his mutinous shipmates and regain his ship
(The Black Pearl).  In interviews he has proclaimed that his inspiration for
the character was Keith Richards, of the Rolling Stones.  (Perhaps he
channels this role too well, as at times Captain Sparrow seems a bit too
much like a stumbling, addled-brained junkie).  The girl from "Bend It Like
Beckham" is quite good (and very fetching) as the mandatory high official's
daughter kidnapped by the fearsome (and cursed) pirate band, and Orlando
Bloom, plays the role of the honorable hero who tries to save her, very
convincingly.
As a boy, a favorite scene in a favorite movie of mine was when in "Jason
and the Argonaughts" Jason and his crew fought the skeletons of the men
killed by the Hydra.  This scene is also similar to some of the battles in
Brandon Fraser's "Mummy" films.  The cursed pirate crew of the Black Pearl
appear in skeleton form under moonlight, and move in and out of their "real"
appearance with astonishing ease and "realism".  It is truly an inspired and
brilliant piece of CGI, and really makes the movie.
The story is sound, with a few interesting plot twists, though the film may
drag a bit towards the end, and wrap things up somewhat unconvincingly.  All
told, however, even if dead men tell no tales, this is a really good movie
(though maybe a bit too scary for small children) and well worth a few
pieces of eight.

******
13 July 2003
10

This movie is just a lot of fun!  Johnny Depp is a stand-out in a performace
that reminds one of how talented this guy really is.  The action scenes are
brilliantly choreographed, and scenery and cinematography are fresh and the
dialogue is very humorous.  Possibly one of the summer's
best.

******
13 July 2003
10

I'm usually don't like pirate movies, but this was really fun. Johnny Depp
was perfectly cast as Captain Jack Sparrow. Keira Knightley was also good as
Elizabeth. I'm not a big fan of Orlando Bloom, but he did a decent job as
Will. The special effects were great, but may be too scary for little kids,
as some other people have mentioned. Overall, it's an entertaining movie
with some laughs and some scares.

******
13 July 2003
10

I recently went to the theatre to catch the new flick Pirates of the
Caribbean: the curse of the black pearl. From seeing the previews i expected
this to be a great movie and let me tell you it was! This movie was
adventurous, mysterious, genuine and funny! Johnny Depp was great as captain
jack sparrow and he had me laughing numerous times throughout the movie. the
storyline was great, the acting was great and the movie was very exciting! i
would recommened this movie to anyone and everyone! The speacial effects
were awesome! The movie was Great and exciting without being corny or
boring, it was an edge of the seat thriller at times, a funny comedy and
times and even a romantic love story at times. I loved this movie and i
think everyone should watch it! Id give it a 10 out of 10!


******
13 July 2003
7
I wasn't expecting much from this (after all it's from the same guy
that brought us Armageddon). I ended up enjoying it however. Good
popcorn fun. It did run a little long however.SPOILER Some of the CGI ghost pirate scenes were over the top, for
instance, their introduction as ghosts. There's a discontinuity between
the live action and the CGI action and back to the live action. SPOILER
OFFJohnny Depp did a good job as the lead pirate and Bloom did okay as a
lead although I thought his delivery was lacking occasionally. Keira
Knightley was stunningly beautiful and did a decent job acting.
Concerning the fights, as everyone is saying, they do go on a little
too long and are also choreographed and scripted such that they could
only happen in a movie. I prefer realism. The movie also manages to fit
in every pirate cliché it could: there's even an "Arrrrgh!". Summary:
Go see it. Don't expect much but receive more than that.

******
13 July 2003
10

This is now one of my favorite movies. I've seen it twice and am planning to
go and see it again. This is definitely the movie of the summer! The acting
is superb, especially Johnny Depp. Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow is the
highlight of the movie. Jack's just so funny and there's no way you can't
like his character after you've seen the movie. His entrance is the best
entrance to any character I've ever seen in a movie. It's hilarious! Orlando
Bloom as Wil Turner is just pretty much the side character here. He does a
good job, but you'll want to see more of Jack. : ) The music is great too
and goes along really well with the movie. And the special effects are
great! They weren't lying when they said that this movie will blow you out
of the water. It definitely blew me out of the water! I wasn't expecting it
to be as good as it was... but it's good! And it's one of those movies that
you can see over and over again and will want to see again. Just get in the
car right now and go see the movie! You won't be disappointed! (or shouldn't
be...) This is not your everyday typical Disney movie.....

******
13 July 2003
6

PotC is a beautifully shot and well directed film. Almost every scene is
breathtaking for it's natural beauty, immaculate set design and costuming or
terrific special effects. The acting is all decent enough, though Orlando
Bloom fails to develop his character into the sort of hero the film needs.
Depp plays Swann with a variety of eccentric quirks and once you get used to
it he is quite funny and engaging. Rush chews the scenery just enough to
make his undead pirate captain a larger than (after) life monster who still
oozes a nasty charm. The movie is too long and in some key scenes it fails
to generate tension. Still it's an enjoyable and very well shot
romp.

******
13 July 2003
10

i loved this movie!! the action, the music and the effects were
great!!
it reminded me of the old swash buckeling movies with errol
flynn
i took my oldest son and he enjoys it also, but i would not recommend this
for kids under 7.  for those that love a good action flick with some humor
tucked in this is the movie for you!!  2 thumbs up!!

******
13 July 2003
9

This is exactly the kind of movie Disney does best.  It is destined to be a
classic.  There was no historical facts to be twisted and changed. It was a
very original tale of swashbuckling in the Caribbean.  The acting was 1st
rate. Johnny Depp was looking over the top frequently, but that is what the
movie required.  The whole family can find something to love.  The pirates
in the moonlight can be a little intense for the wee ones..but it's okay. 
She it on the biggest screen you can find now.

******
13 July 2003
10

Honestly, can a movie with two amazingly gorgeous men likeJohnny Depp and Orlando Bloom be bad?  On top of that, there's agreat story, awesome effects, hilarious comedy, and a love story. What more could you want?  A horrendous villain who gets whathe deserves in the end?  A valiant rescue or two or three?  You gotit!  This is one I will buy on DVD as soon as it comes out!!!  I give ita 10 out of 10!

******
13 July 2003
6

This is a "good fun for the family" movie, if you prefer your adventure soft
boiled. I can't quite decide whether Johhny Depp makes the movie better or
worse. Without him it would certainly have been drearier, but with him it
takes the movie from adventure to amusement park ride. He plays a scalawag
pirate who is more of a swish, than swash, buckler. He teeters rather than
swaggers, bombs out with the ladies, and never shows us any of the skills of
a former Pirate Captain. He's the modern androgynous anti hero we've had to put up with since "real
men" departed the movies.Geoffery Rush on the other hand is the anchor that holds this flimsy vehicle
down. He is plays evil properly: with cold amusement, and a solid sense of
his own superiority. He adds just the right trace of despair at his
condition, and avoids all of Depp's silly stereotypical "Pirate" babble. A
more ironic Director would have allowed him to escape his formulaic
ending.Unfortunately the movie doesn't know how to take itself seriously, when that
is required, preferring to trot in a comedy relief duo when no such relief
is required, and to insist on allowing Depp's character to stay dizzily in
character, when I, for one, desperately wanted him to show some
passion.

******
13 July 2003
8

  If you liked the pirates ride at Disneyland you will probably like this. 
It is pure kid's stuff, with lots of humour and the occasional scary stuff. 
Happily this is not the sort of safe-and-sane picture where they neglect to
ignite a sailing ship's powder magazine, and creepy ideas have been
included, such as two cursed pirites locked in eternal battle in a secret
treasure cave.  May not play as well at home with a bunch of adults intent
on being too hip for it.  Try Saturday matinee for the proper
atmosphere.

******
13 July 2003
8

When I first heard this film touted as "the most violent Disney film ever
made", I wasn't quite certain what to expect. The trailers seemed to combine
the adult appeal of such big names as producer Jerry Bruckheimer and
director Gore Verbinski with the childish whimsy of an extended, "Spy Kids
2"-esque title and the always kid-friendly Disney logo. While I expected a
decent popcorn flick, I was still worried this would simply be a mutinous
attempt to make a grab for the collective treasure of the preteen through
adult market.Interestingly enough, it was a skilled combination of these seemingly
mutually exclusive elements that made this film work. For a film so reliant
on visual effects, care was taken that they not be the focus of the film. A
decent (if simplistic) kidnapping plot expands to an epic tale of cursed
pirates. A surprising amount of Disney humor is woven with non-stop action
sequences and dazzling CG effects. The pirate-to-skeleton transitions are
done masterfully, proving this yet another beautifully laid notch on the
belt of ILM.Orlando Bloom plays his underwritten part decently, despite clearly
expending less effort than his co-star Johnny Depp as the flamboyant Captain
Jack Sparrow. Geoffrey Rush could not be more compelling as the treacherous
Captain Barbossa, and Kiera Knightley shines in a mildly stereotypical
damsel-in-distress-turned-heroine role.Verbinski's direction continues to impress. This skillful director of "The
Ring" is just beginning what will hopefully be an illustrious career.8/10


******
13 July 2003
9

Honestly, how could there be anyone who doesn't like this film? It has
everything: humor, romance, action/adventure, the supernatural. Depp is
brilliant as Captain Jack Sparrow, easily the best new character to come
along in years--the next Han Solo or Indiana Jones. Easily the best film of
the year so far. 9/10

******
13 July 2003
9

Since May, it has seemed as if 2003 was going to be just a run of the mill
summer full of so-so sequels, average action movies, and very little of
anything to look back on.  In total, it may still turn out that way, but
thanks to Finding Nemo from Disney/Pixar and now Pirates of the Caribbean
from Disney, there is finally some light at the end of the tunnel.  They not
only broke the mold by giving us a Pirate movie of all things, they gave us
a Pirate Movie that is exciting, humorous, adventurous, suspense filled, and
filled with excellent performances all the way around.  It is one heck of a
good time at the movies.  Pirates of the Caribbean is everything that
Cutthroat Island wish it could have been, but didn't even come close to
realizing.  Renny Harlin and Geena Davis, eat your hearts
out.Make no mistake about it.  From the moment he steps onto the dock as Jack
Sparrow, this is Johnny Depp's film.  Depp plays Captain Jack Sparrow, a
pirate who wants to regain his ship from the evil Barbossa (played by
Geoffrey Rush).  In order to do so, he is forced to join forces with Will
Turner (played by Orlando Bloom)to rescue the girl Will is sweet on,
Elizabeth Swann (played by Keira Knightly).  Depp's characterization of
Sparrow is so memorable, that even when he isn't on the screen you are
thinking about him.   All the actors are excellent in their roles, with high
marks all the way around.  Keira Knightly shows more then just a feminine
side in Elizabeth Swann, Geoffrey Rush as Barbosa is just evil enough to
make a good villain, yet not so menacing as to bog the picture down. 
Orlando Bloom has the thankless role of playing the mostly straight arrow
good guy, but he does it well, playing the part as it should be while
knowing full well
that doing so makes this Depp's film.  That is not an easy thing to do in
any film.The battle sequences and sword fights are staged to perfection by Gore
Verbinski.  They are never confusing, even when there is a screen
full
of pirates having a bit of swordplay.  Though the movie is a bit long, you
never think about it as Verbinski keeps his film paced just right, while at
the same time letting you get to know all you need to know about his
characters.A movie based on a Disneyland ride could just never work, and a Pirate Movie
at that.  That's what I and many others thought before seeing Pirates of the
Caribbean. I hereby, eat one heck of a lot of hay, and am very happy to do
so.Next Class Please

******
13 July 2003
10

It takes a pretty good movie for me to spend $9.50 per person twice in one
weekend.  But for this movie, I'd even do it again.  Pirates of the
Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl has action, comedy, romance,
swordfighting, swashbuckling, drunken brawls, and some really great lines. But while the movie itself is fun and has great special effects, its
crowning glory is Depp's portrayal of Capt. Jack Sparrow.  His wry comments
and sheer panache provide some of the most memorable and hilarious moments
in the film.  And the mannerisms he adopts make Jack even more priceless,
from the constant swaying walk of a man too long at sea to his facial
expressions, which even without dialogue provoke laughter. As far as I'm
concerned, Depp's Sparrow goes onto my list of the all-time best characters
in film, with the likes of Alan Rickman's Sheriff of Nottingham, Mandy
Patinkin's Inigo Montoya, and Anthony Hopkins' Hannibal
Lector.I can safely say that I'll be at the store to pick up the DVD when it comes
out, and hitting the theater again for a sequel is a definite
yes.


******
13 July 2003
10

Depp is a GOD in this movie. He truely is a rare actor. The rest did well,
too. Prob the best movie I have seen this year, and I have seen alot.
Besides alot of cleavage, from the hot actress, this movie is okay for
children. Anyway, go see it. You won't be dissappointed.

******
13 July 2003
9

I went into the movie theater with a bit of a bias - Pirates of the
Caribbean has always been my favorite ride and I really like Johnny Depp.
I
thought these notions might work against me. Could someone actually
capture
the magic of a favorite amusment park ride on the silver screen? The
answer
is yes. This isn't the greatest movie ever made, the moral isn't profound,
the script isn't Shakespeare, and the plot is a bit thin. However, it's a
tremendous amount of fun. What makes it so much fun is that they truly
captured the feel of the ride. It's all there: the yo-ho yo-ho a pirates
life me for me song, the inmates luring the dog with a bone, the ghost
ship,
and the town pillage scene. The story line is simple, pirates steal cursed
treasure and then hunt for the last piece of the puzzle to break said
curse.
The acting is superb. Of course, how can it not be with Johnny Depp and
Geoffry Rush? I was also quite impressed with the special effects and the
cinematography. Usually I think all special effects are unnecessay, but
these definately added to the movie experience. I rated this movie a 9,
not
because I think it is as cinematically magnificent as Casablanca or
Schindler's List, but because it was thoroughly entertaining and it made
me
feel like I was a six year old kid at Disneyland. If you are looking for
Citizen Kane or don't care much for pirates, you probably won't like this
movie. If, however, you are a kid at heart and want to spend $7.50 (or
$10.00, depending on where you live) on a good time, go see it.


******
13 July 2003
10

I'm going to keep this short and sweet.I went into Pirates of the Carribean as a longtime fan of the ride, having
been to disney world about 17 times all throughout my life. Many fond
memories of the classic ride.I used to love Disney, before they stopped making quality musicals like
the
Little Mermaid and focused their attention on ruining their theme parks
with
stupid deletions/changes of rides, ludicrous closing times (6 pm!?), over
emphasis on being 100% P.C. and not p***ing anyone off (rather than
putting
out quality material), and of course exploiting every single movie they
ever
made with a cheesy ham handed sub par "sequel" (SNL went as far as mocking
them with a bit called "Bambi 2000". You figure it out.)Overall, I hate Disney's movies.  Anyone see "Snowdogs"? Didn't think so.
I
went into "Pirates of the Carribean" thinking it was going to be another
dumb "strictly-for-little-kids" fart-joke fest, with poor dialouge, a
trite
plot, crappy acting and general badness.I'm also a film major, and I know my stuff when it comes to
movies.You could say I was probably the toughest audience member they could have
had.
....and I was completely and utterly blown away.  Blown.
Away.Disney, somehow, released something that was devoid of all fart jokes,
with
no lame jokes or bad acting, or exploitation, something that wasn't
watered
down or cut or anything.  In fact, it was completely AWESOME.They've managed to create a film that has all the wonderful fun,
adventurous
spirit of the old disney movies that everyone loved as a kid. It's as
though
Walt himself was watching over this project in some way.  All the emotions
I
experienced riding the ride as a kid came back to me...the forboding &
sense
of death lurking about, adventure, danger, and even humor...yes, that's
right - they managed to NOT screw up the jokes at all - with a sense of
flair and style that you could only expect from disney.  Depp gives a
smashing performance, his best since Fear & Loathing in Las Vegas, and the
rest of the cast is positively top notch. The plot is creative enough to
leave you guessing, but it still fits within the confines of a classic
Romantic Narrative...and it was such a blast to watch.That was the most important thing - I'm 20, and I was sitting in a theatre
watching a new disney movie.....and I was ENJOYING every MINUTE of
it.GO SEE THIS. NOW.

******
13 July 2003
10

All I can say is, WOW!!! This is by far the best movie that I have seen
all
year! With so many sequels coming out this summer, it's really good to see
an original. Johnny Depp gives an outstanding and hilarious performance,
not
to mention he looks really hot, too!! The rest of the cast was incredible,
too!Action, Romance, Comedy,Suspense, this is a movie that the WHOLE
family
can go see and enjoy!!! I can't wait to buy it! It's so
awesome!!

******
13 July 2003
10

When Johnny Depp is on the screen, he owns it.  The rest of the cast does
a
great job as well.  The ending leaves you wanting to see more of Jack
Sparrow and his new crew.  If you haven't see this yet, make sure you stay
to the bitter end of the credits.  This is one movie I hope they make a
sequel to.

******
13 July 2003
9

I was totally unprepared for the dry humor of Captain Sparrow.  He stole
my
heart from the very first.  He is a rogue to be sure, but a very loveable
one.  I have never seen Johnny Depp in a movie before. (I'm not into
horror
movies).  I would like to see him in more movies with this type of
humor.

******
13 July 2003
10

I had originally had low expectations about this movie, as many who see it
might also have had before going to see it.  However I had heard that
Johnny
Depp's character was pretty good, and I hadn't seen a Pirate movie since
Hook (which doesn't much count).Johnny Depp's character being "pretty good" is a huge understatement.  I
loved his character in every way, including his dialogue, costume, habits,
and accent!The rest of the movie was pretty good as well, Orlando Bloom plays as good
of a character as he does in the Lord of the Rings.  All of the other
characters opposite Depp are satisfying and come together to produce a
solid
adventure with some descent moments of comic relief.I'm glad the movie didn't have to resort to excessive gore or sex
(although
some sex would've been nice, maybe a boob shot?) to make a wonderful
adventure.Anyways, this movie satisfies in every aspect and fullfills the high seas
pirate adventure we've been missing for quite some time
now.Go see it.  If you don't like it I'll give you all of my Star Wars cards.
Except Boba Fett.  No matter how sure I am, I never bet the Fett
man.

******
13 July 2003
9

"Pirates Of The Caribbean" is a good family film with lots of action,
humor,
and romance. The story line is fantastic and the outcome is mostly
unpredictable. The main characters are easy to love and have great actors
playing them. Johnny Depp gives one of his best performances as the
infamous
Captain Jack Sparrow, Orlando Bloom shines as the love struck Will Turner,
and Keira Knightley dazzles as the lovely Elizabeth Swann. Anyone who
likes
sword fighting, pirates, or Johnny Depp should love this film. The special
effects and hilarious one liners help make it one of the best movies of
the
summer!

******
13 July 2003
10

Wow. Disney has actually released a movie with some *dirty* things in it!
Kids will love this movie - it has plenty of action, adventure, and
general
"swash-buckling" to keep them attentive. Older folks will love it because
of
the little things, like the eunuch jokes. Teenage girls, however, (and I'm
speaking from experience) will be pleasantly surprised when Johnny Depp
steals their affections right out from underneath Orlando Bloom. Will
Turner's English charm and boyish good looks are no match for Captain
Jack's
half-baked sexiness.

******
13 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp makes the best pirate ever! Although it was a bit long, it is
a
must see!  There are many humorous line amidst the drama, and the pirates
costumes and sets work very well to create the proper feel for the
film.

******
13 July 2003
10

I am 14 a girl and I have to say this is probably one of the best I have
seen in a while.This movie was amazind begining to end. The action was
great
the romance wasn't mushy because it was tied in with action.Guys and girls
will love it!

******
13 July 2003
10

Love the continuous comedy, adventure, and romance in this film. Johnny
Depp
is HILARIOUS, Orlando very charming and witty, and Keira as spirited and
adventurous as the pirates are! A must see, five star film that I will
DEFINITELY buy when it comes out!:)

******
13 July 2003
10

Everything about this movie is absolutley amazing! The dialouge is
hilarious, the fight scenes are done incredibly, Johnny Depp is great, and
Orlando Bloom is priceless. There's romance, action, and mystery all in
one.
This movie is for everyone and i recommend it to everyone!

******
13 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp is fabulous in this film and deserves awards for his
performance. He plays the part perfectly and keeps you laughing. I didn't
know what to expect going into this movie, but it is the best movie I've
seen in awhile!! 

******
13 July 2003
10

After many years of living in the doldrums of so-so movies, Disney has
come
up with a GEM!  Must see!  Don't wait!  Take mom, dad, the kids, grandma,
grandpa and the dog.  And make sure you stay in your seat through the end
of
the credits.

******
13 July 2003
10

This movie was wonderful because it had action, suspense, and full of
amazing people.  Stuart Townsend is so great and beautiful.  He is may new
favorite actor and I love him so much.  The movie had me and my friends
were
amazed because we didn't think it would be so great. Fantastic and
amazing

******
13 July 2003
7

A nice movie for the ones who love adventures or for those who want to
remind Tyrone Power films.
If you go you will enjoy a great performance by Johnny Depp. His role is
by far the best of the movie.
The only problem about the movie:THE PREVIEW. It shows too much of the
movie and that always ruin some surprises that otherwise would be really
great.

******
13 July 2003
10

This movie was the best one I have seen for a long time. It had everything
a
good movie needs! It was so good. I think that it is one that everyone
would
like to see! I saw it once and I am going to see it again! Johnny Depp was
excellant! Orlando Bloom was awesome! This is by far a Disney
best!

******
13 July 2003
10

The success of this movie aren't in the morale (which is quite hidden) or
even the plot (which is pretty silly, pirates with an ancient curse), but
instead it is the non stop action without being pointless. Sure the battle
scenes between the pirates and the royal navy are a little pointless but
it
adds the the drama and intensity of the movie. Johnny Depp as Jack is an
excellent choice, probably the only one that could have pulled it off. He
is
senslesly silly, without being evil. Go and see the movie, its still a
summer blockbuster but its one of the best.

******
13 July 2003
10

With action, comedy, romance, and, above all, pirates, this is the perfect
summer movie!  The cast is superb.  Johnny Depp is hilarious as the
over-the-top rouge pirate, Jack Sparrow.  Orlando Bloom, probably cast for
the ladies ;-), is very handsome and makes a great
blacksmith-turned-pirate,
Will Turner.  Newcomer Keira Knightney is a beautiful and talented girl
(only 17 years old at the time of shooting) who will go far in her career.
Her portrayal of governor's daughter Elizabeth Swann was wonderfully
fiesty
underneath her upright exterior.  Geoffrey Rush was delightfully
frightening
as evil pirate Captain Barbossa.  This movie had wonderful visual effects,
the best being during a swordfight in a moonlit cave.  Although not
suitable
for the youngest viewers, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl is a fun way to spend a couple hours.

******
13 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean brings to mind the swashbuckling adventure tales
of
old.  The story is full of revenge, rescue, curses, and ,of course,
fighting.  From the hilarious dialogue of Jack Sparrow to the eye-popping
fight scenes, I loved every minute of this film.  I would definitely
recommend it. 

******
13 July 2003
9

I was a little worried that this movie was going too be too cute or too
silly etc. It was none of that - just good fun without thinking too much.
The plot was clear enough to follow and everyone did an admirable job in
their roles.
If you just want to go to the movies to have some fun and not get all
caught
up in social mores, plot twists, and the ..intention of the director (blah
blah blah) then this is a great movie to see - I think I'll see it again
in
a week or two when the crowds clear out.

******
13 July 2003
9

Some one watched a lot of old movies as well as some new, like Princess
Bride, before writing this screenplay. The film included some worthy
elements from old movies without overdoing them. It was also refreshing
that
the romance did not come across as corny or made the film drag.  The
action
of the film flowed well and showed good editing technique. My family
appreciated the witty script which did not try to spoonfeed every detail
of
the story to the audience. The different aspects of the film - casting,
music, film execution - came together to make a sastifying movie watching
experience. 

******
13 July 2003
10

There is nothing to complain about in this movie. The humor was
intelligent
and funny, and not overpowering. The story had enough twists and turns to
keep the viewer hooked. The effects were impressive. And great
performances
were turned in by all the actors. I didn't know what I was getting into
before seeing it; I was merely going to watch the latest movie from one or
two favorite actors. I walked out having been highly entertained, and
completely satisfied with the experience.

******
12 July 2003
8

This movie is a classic. I still dont think this will be the most fun you
will have at the movies this summer, despite what the commercials
say.Only see this movie if your a Big Goonies Fan or if you see movies often. Or
if your a fan of the stars.The movie is not worth it if you go to the theatures once a year and just
see THIS movie. If you see 2 movies this summer, yeah, this should be one of
them.This might be the best movie of the summer, but it does not mean you should
spend your time and money seeing it in the theatures.Unlike some other films i have seen this Summer, i wasn't having that much
fun while watching the movie in the theatures. For Kids, this might be a
GREAT Ride, but it might be too hard to understand.I actually think kids will like this film, so bring them to see
it.

******
12 July 2003
10

This film was amazing!! Johnny Depp was so funny as Jack Sparrow. Rush
played an excellent Barbados. And of course there was Orlando Bloom *melt*.
I saw this yesterday with my sister, her friends, and my best friend. We are
all around the ages 12-14, and we all practically died of laughter. It was
funny, yet the skeletons were very scary. The special effects were great and
I suggest that everyone that loves romance, comedy, and action should watch
this.

******
12 July 2003
10

I know the credit sequence is long due to all of the talent behind the
camera, but there is another scene!  And it is great.  I was sitting there
enjoying the music and everyone else had gone.  But, here comes another
scene.  Whoa!  By the way, this film is excellent.  Johnny Depp steals the
show.  And everyone else does a great job.  There is something in it for
everyone...action, romance, humor and the supernatural.  The finest
spectacular of the year!

******
12 July 2003
7

I hate Disney movies, Jerry Bruckheimer, and summer blockbusters. But the
reviews of Johnny Depp in the film got my butt to the theatre, and I wasn't
disappointed.Occasionally, the movie gets into predictable ruts that are annoying, but
most of the time the action is fast paced, the one-liners are zingy, and the
acting is top notch. The film is full of cliches, especially Love Conquers All, but for once they
work. This film almost ranks with Raiders of the Lost Ark and Spiderman -- it
would be up there but for the emphasis on some bit part actors for comic
relief that dragged the pace down. The score, as for all Jerry movies, is overly frenetic, but it steers clear
of bombastic.Depp is certainly the highlight -- don't be surprised if you feel an urge to
rent a bunch of Depp movies after this. Be sure to see Chocolat if you
haven't seen it yet. But Bloom is not quite as lame as some have painted. He does what he can
with a fairly drab romantic leading man role, and I'm sure all the
12-year-old girls in the theatre were enjoying his big brown eyes as he
gazed yearningly at Keira Knightley [who puts in a perky perfomance]. Here's
hoping Orlando gets a role where he doesn't have to wear funny clothes and
carry a sword!

******
12 July 2003
10

Wow!  I have to admit that whenever I've read great reviews of a movie, I
always wind up being a little disappointed.  Not that the movies were bad;
they just didn't always live up to the hype.  Not so with this movie.  By
far and away, this was one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Very, very
entertaining.  It was funny, scary, exciting, and mysterious all at the same
time.  Johnny Depp has become one of the best actors in Hollywood.  I
remember him from "21 Jump Street" and it's been wonderful seeing him grow
as an actor.  As far as Orlando Bloom goes, he was great in "The Lord of the
Rings" but even better in this movie.  He made a great leading man and I
look forward to seeing him in many more films.  I hope they make a sequel. 
Great fun and a great ride.

******
12 July 2003
9

Theres not much to complain about with the Pirates of the Caribbean. I know
that if I were involved with this film, I would be very proud of the final
product. The costumes and make-up should deserve Oscar recognition along
with Johnny Depps performance which has always been overlooked by Hollywood.
The only complaint I have is that they should have trimmed about 10 minutes
from it as I thought some scenes weren't necessary and seemed to only drag
the movie down. Its refreshing to see that Disney can still make a good
movie without relying on cute animals and a Phil Collins
soundtrack.

******
12 July 2003
10
The Summer of 2003 will be known as the "Summer of Sequels", so when a
non-sequel comes out, you're curious. It is also "the action packed" summer
with so many action- type films, they may all start to look alike before
labor day, when the Summer Movie fare ends. So what can you do when you've seen "Finding Nemo", "The Matrix Reloaded",
"T3", "Tomb Raider 2", "Bad Boys 2", etc., etc more than enough times and
want to be entertained.You go see this. This has something for everyone. Some may complain it
doesn't have ENOUGH of what THEY wish to see in a film, but being that this
is geared for a PG audience, don't go in expecting "R" rated
fare."Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl" is a Disney movie, make
NO mistake. But it does have a little edge above the traditional Disney
"sappiness". There's action...but not excessive. There's scares...but not excessive.
There's beauty...but not excessive. There's a love story...but not
excessive. There is battle...but not excessive. There is blood...but not
excessive. There are dirty, scummy Pirates...but not excessive.Which is why this movie is delightful and entertaining. Children 7 to 10
will love this. Children 2 to 6...well you know your kids, if they cringe at
images and have nightmares at scary things, don't take them! You go see it
FIRST, then make the call for your own child.For 'tweens', they will like this film for the plucky heroine and handsome
guys. For 'teens'-- so may they. Young Adults will laugh and enjoy
themselves and Parents will be able to sit through a film WITH their
children (and you know this summer there aren't too many of those films out
there!) and have be entertained. It's that kind of film and in this Summer
of Re-runs...very refreshing.Ladies -- will love Johnny Depp, Tweens and Teens will Love Orlando
Bloom...and Johnny Depp.Guys will love Ms. Knightley.And what everyone is saying is very important, Johnny Depp steals this film.
You'll just love him in this from the first moments he arrives on screen
until the end. (The Oscar folks wont nominate him, but you just wish they
would -- yes, he's that good here.)Special Effects fans will love the special effects but remember this is NOT
a Special Effects film, so don't look for alot of it.Geoffrey Rush is alot of fun and does a great job as the bad
Pirate.This film is over 2 hours so be prepared. (For how much they charge for
films nowadays, 2 hours will just about give you your money's
worth.)So remember, this is a fun 'Pirates' film (finally!!!) with the Disney
touch, that the majority of folks can find something in it and really like.
I know I did.Go see it especially if you just wanta be entertained and enjoy a film this
summer. It will be worth it!


******
12 July 2003
10

Finally Disney makes a movie that is better quality than a Saturday morning
cartoon. That's not counting Pixar's efforts, because they were an
acquisition and is still run as a separate company. This one is lacking the
usual Disney over-hype and commercialization too, probably because Pirate
baby toys don't work. And it's the first Disney movie in years I didn't know
what to expect -- the rest were spoiled by all the toys and books coming out
a week before release.This is a terrific movie, the best film of the year so far. Original story,
solid plot, solid action, amazing effects that fit, great
dialogue.Depp's pirate makes the movie. He is one of those few actors who can play
any role (or maybe one of the few who get the chance to try). Rush plays an
excellent villain, and gets some of the best lines. Bloom and his love
interest play more stock adventure characters.It's not for the younger set. It's dark, violent in spots, and a lot of
people get skewered, including "good" guys. My 8 year old loved it but he
was scared in several scenes, and he doesn't scare easily. It ends with a
good message and warm feelings though.


******
12 July 2003
6

For some reason, I've never liked Johnny Depp. Ever since I saw him die in A
Nightmare on Elm Street and I was glad, I wasn't a Depp fan. However, as
Captain Jack Sparrow, not only is he able to deliver snappy one-liners, he
proves to BE the movie. If it wasn't for Depp, Pirates of the Caribbean: The
Curse of the Black Pearl wouldn't have a tongue-in-cheek feel; it would just
seem like it was a serious pirate movie, which, by Jove, it isn't. There's
nothing in it that's remotely bound to happen.The story, which was based on a Disney World ride, has Elizabeth Swann
(Keira Knightley, aka the hot girl from Bend it Like Beckham) with a golden
medallion, and bloodthirsty pirates come to kidnap her for it. If regular
`yo-ho-ho' pirates weren't enough, they're zombie/ghost/skeleton pirates
that cannot be killed. However, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom, who was added
into this movie just so teenage girls would see it and swoon over him),
who's smitten with her, tries to rescue her with the help of Cpt. Jack
Sparrow (Depp). Soon they're in way over their head.As the previews for this movie started to come out, I had my doubts. I
thought that this was going to be the worst movie of the summer, with a plot
more contrived that Anger Management. Zombie pirates? Ech. Also, my grudge
against Johnny Depp held me back. However, after hearing mainly positive
reviews, and learning that Depp was actually good, I thought that I'd give
it a try. And it wasn't as bad as I thought it would be. It's not a piece of
art, but it's a movie I wouldn't mind seeing again.The plot is, frankly, really stupid. Like most movies of the summer, they
focus too much on having a plot instead of having two hours of rollicking
fun. However, Pirates of the Caribbean tries to have a real deep, moving
plot, while it suffers with it. It bogs down the fun that we could be
having. Also, while all of the fight scenes were pretty good, there were too
manynot to say boring, but not exciting scenes.Depp was pretty funny, but he also proved himself to be a welcome screen
presence. I found myself amazed to actually be WANTING more Depp. If you've
seen any trailers for Pirates of the Caribbean, which I think everyone in
the country has, you know what he'll be like. However, I must object to the
casting of Bloom. Just because he can be considered easy on the eyes doesn't
make him a good actor, and he isn't. Every time he was onscreen, I was
waiting for him to leave so Depp can do more onscreen. However, Gore `The
Ring' Verbinski thought that somehow he wouldn't receive as much money if
the reason half of the audience went to the theater wasn't on screen a lot,
so in about every place, Orlando Bloom is on screen. Knightley, who was
billed fourth and had the most screen time, was pretty good, but I think
that she should stick to comedy.Even if you hate Disney (as I do), you'll be able to find something to like
about the first PG-13 `straight Disney' film, whether it be the
tongue-in-cheek humor, the few good swashbuckling scenes, or the horrible
plot.My rating: 6/10Rated PG-13 for action/adventure violence.

******
12 July 2003
9

I was a little confused at first. What was this I was seeing on the screen?
Could it be... why.. yes, I think it is... YES, Actual Creativity on a
cinema screen. How did the Hollywood execs ever allow this to happen?
Especially during the "Summer of Sequels"? 
Actual new ideas, creative plot, unpredictability, and NOT FULL OF OVERBLOWN
SPECIAL EFFECTS just because they are available.Johnny Depp was fantastic, and this is from a guy who never liked his acting
(until last night anyway). Orlando Bloom was servicable, Geoffry Rush was
great as usual. The writing and direction was top-notch.I still can't believe it, someone at Disney had an original idea. What could
be next? Can Fox be far behind? 9/10

******
12 July 2003
10

This was clearly one of the best movies to come out this summer. Evrything
about it was great - the acting, the special effects, the story, and last
but not the least - the direction by Gore Verbinski. Johny Depp was cast
perfectly and that guy continues to amaze me with his acting prowess (too
bad the Oscar judges dont seem to think so). Keira Knightly, he first role
in a major hollywood film ddi extremely well too, giving the men in the
movie theatres the spice they need. Orlando Bloom, the elf Leglolas in the
epic Lord of the Rings trilogy, is perfectly cast to as Elizabeth(Keira)'s
love interest. The special effects, espcially in the scenes where moonlight
turns the cursed pirates into walking skeletons was done with class and
precision. The story was exciting, thrilling and left all room for suprises
(in other words - it was a plot line that had hardly any flaws and had an
end that couldnt be easily figured out). I forgot to mention Geoffrey Rush,
a star of many good movies like Quills, Shakespeare in love, and the Tailor
of Panama, who plays his role with ease. A great movie for all ages and
certainly a movie that can be watched again, and again, and again.


******
12 July 2003
10

Wow. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun at the movies.
Pirates
of the Caribbean is a fantastic high-seas adventure sporting an excellent
script and all-star cast. Johnny Depp completely stole the show as the
swashbuckling Captain Jack Sparrow, delivering the most memorable
performance of the year. Orlando Bloom displayed his terrific onscreen
presence as Will Turner, and Keira Knightley was perfect as the not-so
damsel in distress Elizabeth. The special effects were also top-notch,
especially the dramatic moonlit battle sequences. Disney has completely
outdone themselves with their first (and hopefully not their last) PG-13
endeavor. Honestly if you're looking to have a great time at the movies,
Pirates of the Caribbean stands out as a real gem.Rating: 9/10

******
12 July 2003
10

I watched "pirates of the Caribbean" was great. Many movie fans said
Johnny
Depp was good actor and so cool. I think "Pirates of the Caribbean" is
better than "Cutthroat Island" and "Treasure Planet". Because of both
were
not good enough. But I like Treasure Planet because of the ship is
floating
into the space was beautiful. This movie is PG-13 obvious only violence
like
evil pirates attack, become skeleton by moonlight, very very few blood,
the
people of the village are wild and drunk, and No sexual or nude. Perhaps,
the children of 8 years old and up are able to watch the movie. This is
almost similar Disneyland's ride.

******
12 July 2003
10

Okay, so we've been bogged down with a summer of movies that each
claim
to be "the end all, be all blockbuster" or the "best sequel ever".
However,
I think this is easilt the best overall production of the summer. There
is
not a flaw in it from the writing, to the effects, costumes, or even
acting;
this is my movie of the year so far! Although running as a close second
is
Finding Nemo. But this is reality, in a very entertaining way. I spent
2.5
hours in a time warp that felt like 90 minutes. Depp earned his cut with
an
excellent performance and a great supporting cast, outfitted to the hilt.
The story was strong for a summer flick (there were no Aliens losing a
planet to humans with Apple computers), and it felt like Disney's flume
ride
through and through. I rushed to see Matrix, Hulk, Terminator, and sadly
enough went to Legally Blonde 2 and Charlies Angels, but nothing has
compared to this. All in all, excellent.

******
12 July 2003
10

I honestly was expecting nothing when going into seeing Pirates of the
Caribean. But I was (for lack of a better term) blown away by how much fun
I
had watching this film and I would recommend it to anyone that wants to
have
a good time at the movie theaters. It was also refreshing to see something
that wasn't a sequel playing at the movie theaters but I fear if this is
as
successful as they hope it to be, a sequel won't be too far behind.


******
12 July 2003
9

On the surface, it's innocent enough.  (Capt.) Jack Sparrow is a likeable,
although a bit fruity, pirate.  Orlando Bloom makes a wonderful breakaway
from the LOTR saga, and Keira Knightly swoons with the best.  The problem?
It's just a wee bit long in the tooth.  Eye candy like the ghastly special
effects and great scenery notwithstanding, the entire last half hour could
have been 10 minutes or so.Other than that, I would highly recommend seeing this movie.  The history
is
dealt out in small parcels along the length of the movie, allowing you to
digest each bit without giving too much away.  There is enough doing
without
explaining to make the movie a bit more intelligent than then industry
standard would normally allow, and the sword fighting is reminiscent of
black and white film. (A good thing)Just remember: Commodore isn't a royal navy rank.  It's a temporary title
given to a Captain in charge of other captains when an Admiral isn't
nearby.
They should have made the officer in question an Admiral.  It's a small
change, but it made me distrust the movie in the first 10 minutes.  They
won
me back, but it's still dead wrong.


******
12 July 2003
10

I've always been a sucker for a swashbuckling pirate tale, and have
probably
seen every one made. This one did not disappoint! Johnny Depp's Captain
Jack
was quirky and brilliant. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley played off his
madness perfectly. Of course the plot had all of the expected elements ...
damsel in distress, unacceptable suitor, nasty pirate with a conscience,
incompetent naval officers ... but the cast made it all seem fresh, and
the
pace kept me captivated until the end. This movie is fun!

******
12 July 2003
10

And the award for yummiest summertime (or any other time) movie pairing
goes
to
Pirates of the Caribbean... Thank God for manipulating the Hollywood
heavens
into that
delicious Johnny Depp-Orlando Bloom star alignment. I bow to whomever
dreamt
up
such a  wonderful casting concept. It only took half a summer for the
unveiling of the
most jaw-droppingly delightful cinematic fetish duo since Brad Pitt and
George Clooney
in Ocean's Eleven. The hotness of this film rivals the July heat, with a
man-sweaty
humidity to make it all the hotter.In addition to my initial raging female hormone-induced reaction, I felt
the
adrenaline
level become equally high. The high seas action/adventure doesn't get any
more fun,
thrilling or chilling than this... at least not in the PG-13 category...
scratch that, it is
awesome for any category. Sword fights and cannon blasts and walking
talking
skeletons oh my! The plot was more existent than that of Charlie's Angels
and more
realistic (ironically), which is a nice change from the general summer
offerings. As usual,
Bruckheimer spared no expense in transporting his actors and audience into
the era of
the pirate-run Caribbean. Cute references to the Disney ride and goofy,
surly, yet sexy
quips from good ol' Johnny top off the whole experience with sardonic
spice.Two things come to mind upon leaving the theatre: How hot the boys are
(duh)
and the
Freudian desire to BE Jack Sparrow. I want long black hair and dreads with
beads and
charms hangin' on 'em. I want a blade and a pistol, big leather boots,
dark
waterproof
eyeliner, and a trident hat that's seen one too many battles and trips to
Tortuga. I want
to swing from ropes and climb on fallen masts, I want to sing YO HO! YO
HO!
and drink
bottles upon bottles of rum on the beach of a deserted island.
Unfortunately, in my
case, all this would entail some major costuming, props and sex-change
surgery.I should probably just buy the video game ;)This exciting and fresh foray into the classic cult pirate genre garners
nine out of ten
stars... savvy?


******
12 July 2003
10

Good swashbucklers just aren't in style anymore. It's been years since a
pirate has sailed into the box office and made movie making history. But
the
applause must go to Disney for this grand achievement which can truly be
deemed an 'epic.' Pirates of the Caribbean is in the grand old style of
Errol Flynn. Not only are the sword fights grand, the escapes harrowing,
and
the cast top-notch, but the plot is truly brilliant and the two and a half
hour pace never seems to lag. Most viewers will find themselves swept into
an adventure unlike any other with a beautiful damsel in distress, a
handsome rogue as her rescuer, and a motley crew of bloodthirsty
buccaneers
to provide the backdrop.Though the plot may seem fairly cut and dried, the script is actually far
more complex than a simple summary might surmise. Full of surprising plot
twists, witty dialogue, excellent swordplay, and some truly astonishing
CGI
battles, Pirates of the Caribbean deserves a sailor's welcome. Much has
been
made over actor Johnny Depp 'improvising' the character of Jack Sparrow.
He
really goes out on a limb with his interpretation of a slightly batty,
overall likable, and sometimes downright sinister former (perhaps
reformed,
perhaps not) pirate captain. The thing is, it totally works. His
gold-toothed smile, his half-slurred speech, and his 'sea legs on land'
stride never fails to engage a laugh. His own entrance to the film is
particularly memorable, one of the movie's best comic moments.This is one of the most stunningly visual movies I've ever seen. The
costuming was beautiful, the backdrop romantic, and some of the
cinematography, like a pirate ship sailing under a full moon, downright
jaw-dropping. This film deserves a number of Oscar nominations for merit
alone, and that's not including the excellent performances by Geoffrey
Rush,
Orlando Bloom, and British beauty Kiera Knightley. There's enough humor to
elevate some of the darker elements, and for once it's eye candy which
pays
off for the two-plus hours spent in a cramped theatre seat. But a final
word
of advice for those of ye brave enough to forge these waters... stay until
after the closing credits. There's a tantalizing little tidbit which will
leave you thirsting for more..

******
12 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Carribean blew me away! it was soo awsome =) Johnny Depp
did
a very good job at his part and was totally sexy!=) he is soo hott! The
cast
was very good too! out of 5 id give the movie 10+/5 it is defantly worth
seeing over and over! the effects are neat too! =) Johnny is soo hott as
Jack Sparrow too =) *drools*

******
12 July 2003
10

This was great family entertainment inline with the movie's Disney used to
put out in the 60's and 70's.  Tension, action, romance, fights, but only
one kiss, no gore, and only artfully placed signs of blood!!!  The comedy
is
great.  Of course if you don't like cheesey humor, this movie may not be
to
your taste.   This movie pokes fun at stereotypes and is the finest
cheesey
fun I have seen in a long time.  I just saw it for the second time  and I
know I will buy it when it comes out.  If you have been to Disneyland and
have been on the ride, you will love all the sight gags that are placed in
the film.  Don't let that stop you thoug, my friend has never been to
Disneyland and he almost hurt himself laughing, and he didn't even know
there was a corelation.  That's cudos for the creators of the ride in
making
memeorable and funny images.  I would rate this a must see for most of the
family.  Little children could get nightmares from the skeletons and
teenagers may think they are too cool to like it.  Other than that,
everyone
else should love it.

******
12 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is a must see movie! It will make you laugh and
it
will make you cry! NOT!But it is a hilarious movie, Johnny Depp captured
movie and played his part the best it could be played! So if you haven't
seen it go see it today! And I mean now!!!!

******
12 July 2003
10

This movie was sooooo awesome!!! I am going to see it over and over and
over
again!!  It had awesome action scenes...awesome humor....awesome
everything!!! i cna't say enough good things abotu this movie. Johnny Depp
was FAN-F-in-TASTIC! and Orlando Bloom what more needs to be said he could
just stand there and I'd still love him..I recomend EVERYONE should go see
this movie! OR ELSE!!

******
12 July 2003
10

Alright, first off, this movie rocks, but the thing that really sets it
aside, really, truly sets it aside (especially after seeing the new
Charlie's Angels) was that *wow* they used realistic physics in their
special effects!Maybe one scene, one, in the whole movie was exaggerated, and not by much.
In addition, everything is perfectly balanced, like the person who's
comments I just read noted, it has everything, but not excessive amounts,
and the things it does have are done so well you won't care
anyway.I would have to say that this is the best new movie I've seen in a very,
very long time.  Anyone who likes action and adventure, you need to see
this
right now, especially if you're a big fan of the whole pirate
theme.P.S.  Don't let the Disney label throw you...this is definately an
excellent
film for people of all ages (and from what I can tell all sexes and most
demographics).

******
12 July 2003
10

I loved this movie, and since I've been to DisneyWorld I now truly
understand the attraction that they have there, named the same as the
title
of this film.  Johnny Depp is hilarious and Orlando Bloom is the perfect
complement to the genius of Depp, the rest of the cast, and the crew!  I
absolutely recommend this movie because it is funny and brilliant and
actually has an amazing plot!  GO SEE IT!!!!

******
12 July 2003
10

Most children grow up dreaming of being modern day pirates. Many of us
have
ridden The Pirates of the Caribbean at Disney Land and dreamed of wearing
an
eye patch and drawing our swords. Yet, most of us have been deprived of a
big screen picture that not only captured our eight bucks, but our
imagination as well.But leave it to Jerry Bruckheimer & Co. to bring our youth a picture that
can give them the same dreams and creative thoughts that compelled us.
However, we must not be fooled by the appearance of this movie. The Curse
of
the Black Pearl is a film for men and women of all ages.Director Gore Verbinski has come a long way from his days of mediocre
films
such as The Mexican and Mouse Hunt. He even manages to out do the quality
of
his last film, 2002's brilliant fright fest The Ring. While not near as
horror oriented, Pirates of the Caribbean still takes you on a roller
coaster ride of thrills and excitement.Orlando Bloom is decent as Will Turner, the blacksmith in love with the
one
woman he cannot have. Yet, among the supporting cast he is overshadowed
by
both Keira Knightly, who plays Bloom's love interest Elizabeth Swan, and
Geoffrey Rush who displays his character acting abilities as Captain
Barbossa. Both do an amazing job and stand out amongst all the sword
fighting and piracy.However, it is Johnny Depp who is truly amazing in this film. His ability
to
transform into a character is absolutely amazing, and as Captain Jack
Sparrow he stumbles upon his greatest role since Edward Scissorhands.
Even
thrown in with the elaborate backdrops and jaw-dropping ships, it is Depp
who catches the viewers attention.With an amazing ensemble cast Verbinski is able to transport into the
realm
of swash-buckling pirates and mutinous first mates. Unlike predecessors,
Verbinski creates the best Pirate movie since Roman Polanski's Pirates
(1986) and the best movie yet released in 2003.


******
12 July 2003
10

By far this was the best movie i've ever seen. It has every thing that
makes
a movie great, it has action, animation, humor, fantasy, horror, and
romance. Also johnny Depp(captain jack sparrow) who was also in the movie
made it so much better because he is such a great actor and plus, Orlando
Bloom(will turner)who also plays a major role in this movie is so hot,
talented, and sweet, and of course there is also Keira
Knightley(elizabeth
swann) who has that princess type of look which makes the movie seem more
in
the past or when pirates used to wander our oceans.
Over all I thought the movie was great and I hope they make a sequel to
this
movie.
(Orlando's #1 fan),
Lauren

******
12 July 2003
9

Let's face it, I have never been one to go for theme park ride inspired
movies,
especially rides from Disney -Youarehavingsomefunnowyes?- Land. Then I
saw
the trailer for Pirates of the Caribbean. Then I found out Geoffrey Rush
was
playing the bad guy. And then I was sold.All in all Pirates of the Caribbean surprises on many levels, mostly (for
me) in
the special effects department. The animated skeletons, while still
retaining the
all to fluid movement of CGI, are much more believable than, say, some
other
CGI effects in much more high profile movies.The music to the film is very fine, especially the end-credit piece,
something I
had not been counting on. The movie is very well cast, particularly in
the
case of
Jonathan Pryce as a somewhat bumbling, but well-meaning
father-of-the-
heroine. And of course there is Johnny Depp, who seems to be vying with
Guy
Pearce (in The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert,) for the
Most
Flamboyant Character Portrayal Award. He truly takes the viewing
experiance
to
the next level. Then there is Orlando Bloom, who seems all set to take
over
from
Errol Flynn despite the fact that he has, with out a doubt, probably the
worst role
in the whole film. Geoffrey Rush is quite well cast in his part as Major
Baddie in
Chief, and seems to be having way to much fun with that monkey of his.Oh yes, and I should really say something about Keira Knightley, she is
good,
better than most. But I would have still preferred to see Franka Potente
in
this
part. Oh well.Truth be told, Pirates of the Caribbean is a rolicking good time,
although
younger kids (and older ones, too,) may get nightmares, so be warned. I
myself
thoroughly enjoyed it, and cannot wait to see it again.Warning:
Johnny Depp's character is highly contagious, after viewing this movie I
spent
the rest of the day prancing about looking as though I was a member of
the
Ministry of Silly Walks, Naval Devision, and speaking with a low caliber
English
accent. Just thought I might warn you, although if you are a teenager it
doesn't
really matter.--- Jaiko

******
11 July 2003
8

Pirate Jack Sparrow(Johnny Depp) who was once captain of the Black Pearl and
Will Turner(Orlando Bloom) must go save the beautiful Elizabeth Swann(Keira
Knightley) who has been kidnaped by evil pirates that need to spill her
blood in order to break a ancient curse.
This was a great movie filled with adventure, fun and also lots of laughter.
Johnny Depp does a great job as usual along with the incredibly stunning
Keira Knightley who I am absolutely in love with.
This is a great movie that the whole family can enjoy.
I would give Pirates of the Caribbean:The Curse of the Black Pearl
8/10

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie is the most entertaining movie I've seen this year. Johnny Depp
is at his best, as he swaggers, lurches, and gestures through the movie. He
provides enormous amounts of comedy. Orlando Bloom, Kiera Knightly, and
Geoffrey Rush also do well, but Depp is clearly the star. The swordfighting
is excellent and exciting. All the sea battles are just that - BATTLES. The
music also gives a fantastic background to everything going on. To top it
all off, there is not one fart joke in the entire movie; surely a sign of
greatness. Go see it. NOW. Because you will laugh more than you have in
years.

******
11 July 2003
10

Remember when you were a child and your parents took you to Disneyland and
you waited in line to get on the PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN ride? As you went
on the ride you found out that Dead Men Tell No Tales, you saw the Pirates
burn the town, have fun in the next town, fight with another ship on the
high seas. All the action, all the fun that you can remember is here in this
tale of cursed Pirates, true love, and all the sawshbuckling you can handle.
Johnny Depp has never been better, Rush is delightful, as well as the rest
of the cast. If you see only one film this summer that you can take the
whole family to see, then pass up most of the Hollywood dribble and go see
Disneys PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN, it would be well worth ye
time.

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie is the epitomy of fun. Smart dialogue, excellent fight scenes and
blow-you-mind-animation that is on the same scale, if I dare say, as Gollum
in the Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers.Johnny Depp, as has been said again and again, praise he is worthy of,
steals every scene. His presence, even when he is not the center of
attention, is so captivating. "You forgot one very important thing, mate.
I'm Captain Jack Sparrow!"Orlando Bloom played an excellent handsome love interest. Sometimes, I felt
a little tired with his continued forcefulness, but he was very much the
slightly naive but determined side kick.Keira Knightley! A beautiful girl that I hope will have a long career. She
acts with grace and conviction.Geoffrey Rush was such a fascinating presence, playing Captain Barbossa with
finesse. His on-screen presence was nearly as enjoyable as Captain
Jack.I recommend this to anyone looking to laugh until their sides hurt and leave
feeling boyantly revived. Though, it may be a little strong for the younger
ones. 10+

******
11 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is one of the best Pirate movies ever.  There is a
great balance of storyline and action to make this film a top Disney
production.  It was full of surprises that would entertain anyone at any
age.  Johnny Depps' role was performed almost flawlessly, and the visual
effects were done remarkably.Due to the critic's ratings; `Pirates of the Caribbean' is also a prime
example on how highly paid movie critics do not belong in our
society.

******
11 July 2003
10
..."Pirates of the Caribbean" ranks up there with the "Lord of the Rings"
and "Indiana Jones" trilogies for good adventure.  I've always been waiting
for a fun pirate movie, and now I've got what I've been waiting
for.The story focuses on four characters: Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), a former
Pirate Captain who wants his boat (the Black Pearl) back.  Cpt. Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush), the evil pirate (now captain of the Black Pearl), who is
cursed to be immortal because of stealing treasure from the Aztecs.  Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom), a young black smith getting help from Sparrow to
save his love from Barbossa, and Elizabeth Swoon (Kyra Knightley), Turner's
love and Barbossa's captive.Each actor plays their character perfectly.  Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush
deliver the best performances out of the bunch, being the best actors.  Depp
is cool, and funny as hell as Sparrow, and you can't get much creepier than
a skeleton version of Geoffrey Rush as your lead villain."Pirates" is a must-see for all families out there.  Fun, funny, and cool,
this certainly deserved all the good reviews, 8.5/10.

******
11 July 2003
9

Well, I'll be.  When I first heard about a movie being filmed based on a
Disney World ride, all I could imagine was standing in long lines only to be
bored for 15-minutes (in this case, 2+ hours).  But I should have taken a
look at the pedigree involved.Gore Verbinski, hot off his hit "The Ring" (which I was so-so on), impressed
me with "The Mexican", a quirky unusual romantic comedy that struck a chord
with me.  Johnny Depp, an actor who is entirely particular with his movie
role choices, appears as Captain Jack Sparrow.  These two things alone
should have made me take notice--but with the Disney studio overseeing the
film's production, I expected "The Country Bears".  What I got instead is
one of the best films I've seen all year.With a well-written script, "PotC" becomes that rare summer movie we all
hope for: smart, exciting, but never serious enough to spoil the fun.  The
cast is mostly to commend for this, I suspect.  Orlando Bloom, hot property
thanks to his performance as Legolas in "Lord of the Rings", makes a
commanding lead, a star in the making.  While his turn as Legolas made him
well-known amongst fans, he has a far larger role here, and manages to make
his hero into something more than a bland male lead.Keira Knightley, along with Claire Danes in "Terminator 3", creates one of
the few strong female heroes that audiences want in action films.  While it
isn't a great performance, it suits the film extremely
well.Geoffrey Rush was born to be a pirate, with a great look and a mixture of
comedy and dead seriousness.  He does a very good job and commands the
screen whenever he's front and center.Unfortunately, Johnny Depp is also usually around.  With one of the greatest
performances in movie history, Depp creates Captain Jack Sparrow as one of
those movie characters people will dress up to look like at Halloween.  His
character is a swishy, slurry mess, yet in full command of his senses, his
wits, and his ability to manipulate others to do what he wants.  With limp
wrists and a constantly shifting center of gravity, Depp portrays Jack
Sparrow as a self-assured, inventive, yet dangerous pirate.  He's a
benevolent figure, but sneaky and crafty like the best villains usually are
(that he is not a villain speaks to the screenwriters ingenuity).According to Depp, he decided to form his performance around his good friend
Keith Richards.  The resemblance is rather uncanny when you think about it. 
While there are spectacular set designs, cinematography, special effects,
and action scenes, Johnny Depp becomes the film's saving grace--if there is
any justice in this world, Oscar will not forget him come nomination
day.Gore Verbinsky has given us an old-fashioned pirate film with updated visual
effects.  The effects are practically seamless, with flesh melting to bone
and back again with ease (although this brings up a question: if moonlight
is merely reflected sunlight, why doesn't sunlight show their true form?). 
In the grand tradition of Hollywood epics, he entertains us without
pandering to us.  It's a stylish, well-crafted film that features some very
good performances--and of course, Johnny Depp.  If you had told me a few
months ago that "PotC" would have an Oscar-worthy performance in it, I
probably would have laughed.All in all, "PotC" is a must-see summer film, if just to watch Johnny Depp
prance around like he owns every inch of celluloid.  

******
11 July 2003
10

Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio are story kings.  All aspects are in place in
this film... writing, directing, acting... humor, action, romance, thrills,
efx. Keira Knightley is smoldering.  On fire. Finally, we get a film that doesn't show every decent scene in the
trailer.10/10 (easily)

******
11 July 2003
8

So many stinkers in one summer suggests that someone will make a good summer
movie and Disney did.It is Depp in a wonderfully controlled role.  Is it the rum the ..."blow to
the head" or the ruse used to disarm adversaries?  Who knows and really who
cares.  Depp is just terrific as Captain Sparrow.It is a bit on the long side at plus two hours but the movie was fun and my
grand kids thought it was just "the best".Some have said it was scary but my aunts Cocker Spaniel is scarier then this
film, but that is ok too.  it is a neat and well done movie and I say it is
an 8 out of ten...my best score this year I think?

******
11 July 2003
9

I was a little skeptical going into this movie for 3 reasons 1)Disney 2)
based on a Disney ride and 3) pirates, which I don't normally go for, unless
it's Adam Ant. But I had faith in Depp, because he is in so many wonderful,
quirky movies, and damn, he didn't let me down! Depp owns this movie. He was
so funny and heartfelt and wild. I'm almost positive they'll make a sequel
to this movie because Depp's Cpt. Sparrow is going to be so widely loved.
Although I found Bloom and Knightley a little bland, the rest of the cast
was super. Geoffrey Rush was excellent, somewhat reminiscent of his Sade in
"Quills," which I loved. I didn't think the CGI was overkill at all. The
skeletal pirates were awesome, but I most enjoyed the ship battles and
swinging from the rigging stuff. Great fight choreography, beautiful
settings and costumes. Again, esp. on Depp whose dreads, braids, gold teeth,
and kohl-rimmed eyes is enough to make girls (corset-wearing or not) swoon.
I'm so going to see this one again!! Story: 8/10 (10 being best) Depp:
100+/10

******
11 July 2003
10

This was the best movie in the friggin'world! They'd better make a
sequal!
It was wicked! Hilarious, freaky, romantic, and of course, had an awesome
cast. If I could rate this movie from a 1 to a 10, 10 being the best,
it'd
be a 100! I reccomend this movie to everyone of all ages.


******
11 July 2003
10

This is just generally a great movie...
and Keira K. is damn hot in that bodice!!!
too bad they arent in style today (except in certain circles)
anyway, I digress..the fight scenes, though long are not
graphic,
the humor is funny, but not condescending... and did I mention
Keira??
Johnny D.'s performance should win him an oscar, exept we all know how
the
academy feels about Disney movies (remember Beauty and the
Beast??)
Sure there are some plot holes big enough to sail a 3 master thru,
(i.e.Was
bootstrap REALLY dead, I mean he was cursed too was he
not????)
but these details PALE in comparison to Keira's beauty.go see the movie.. you wont be disappointed...(sorry about the spelling, I mean it IS late at night!!)

******
11 July 2003
8

Depp looks like he is having the time of his life playing this role, every
gesture is grand and every expression makes the eye move to him.  I love
swashbuckling movies and this one does not disappoint.  While I do not
expect an action/adventure movie to he "historically accurate", this movie
certainly feels like a pirate movie, rather than some Peter Pan fantasy
world.

******
11 July 2003
7

I  viewed this film with our 12 year old son July 10.  I was a bit
dubious about the fighting and skeletons but  he handled  all the
action just fine.  It's a fun film with beautiful cinematography and
costumes.  It's also 2 1/2 hours - so get the big sack of popcorn!  I
would not recommend this for children under 10 years old, it has
some scary scenes with those skeletons and stormy seas.  Our
son, when he was 9, was very frightened when we rented Titanic
because of all the flooding.  I'm a Geoffrey Rush fan and he was
great but I have to agree with everyone - Johnny Depp stole the
show by his charisma, not  fighting abilities.  There's a great duel
scene in here, too.  The leading lady does a fine job for her part -
she just needed to be a bit feistier.  Thank you.

******
11 July 2003
10

(possible spoilers)I believe that Pirates of the Caribbean is a movie that should gain
attention, and I definately am telling you to go see it if you have not
already. This movie is excellent, and it never ceases to slow down and get
dull.One thing that simply amazed me, was what seemed to be a love story in the
beginning, stayed pretty much out of the movie. The plot was incredible.
It
never stopped to thrill me. Surprising enough, they even included the
scenes
from the ride Pirates of the Caribbean (I was just in FL, so I remember it
well). The movie had great comedy, and awesome visual effects.I believe that if someone else than Johnny Depp played the role of Captian
Jack Sparrow, then this movie would have only been a big sellout, if it
was,
to Orlando Bloom Fan girls. Depp portrays a pirate who has an incredible
history for being a great pirate, and his troubles seem him drunk the
entire
movie. But it is the character's movements when he is speaking that really
can show a personality. The way he moved his hands is what I am talking
about. Yes, Orlando Bloom, did fine in the movie, as well as Kiara ? and
Geoffrey Rush.(SPOILER)
One thing that gets to me is why wouldn't Bootstrap Bill be alive? Because
he should have gotten the curse also when they stole the gold. (he stole
it
and gave it to Will Turner, his son). Then they say in the film, I believe
that they strapped him to a big rock and he was put into the ocean. Well
the
curse kept the pirates eternal. Also, if he ran out of possession of the
gold and died, then why did Elizabeth not have the curse when she was in
possession of it?
(END SPOILER)But, don't take that the wrong way, I am sure there are many reasons to
that, and there are many reasons why you should see Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl. 10/10

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie conjugates great acting, particularly in secondary roles
(Geoffrey Rush, Jonathan Pryce), superb FX, larger-than-life sound, sexy
actors (Keira Knightly, Orlando Bloom), and overall great production
values.
It has a plot that you can follow, rather than just a perfunctory story
that is used to hang a bunch of CGI images on.Four thumbs up form my kids, too!

******
11 July 2003
7

Thanks to Johnny Depp, PIRATES has much more worth than it would have
had without him. I didn't really know what to expect but I was pleasantly
entertained. Very funny by moments. The CG's were suprisingly
excellent.

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie conjugates great acting, particlarly in secondary roles
(Geoffrey
Rush, Jonathan Pryce), superb FX, larger-than-life sound, sexy actors
(Keira
Knightly, Orlando Bloom), and overall great production values.  It has a
plot that you can follow, rather than just a perfunctory story that is
used
to hang a bunch of CGI images on.Four thumbs up form my kids, too!

******
11 July 2003
10

We weren't sure how good this would be. The theater was packed and people
laughed throughout the show. Pirates of the Caribbean has the right amount
of humor, a good story line, romance and action. It has something for
everyone and I would think most kids 8 and over would like it. Disney
scores
BIG on this. Johnny Dep STEALS the summer in this show

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie was great! I was able to take my 8, 10, and 11 year old
children
to the movies and enjoy it myself as well! Hear, hear! Because Disney was
starting to suck! This puts them back on good standing with
me.

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie was amazing. Best movie of the 2003 summer(so far) and proably
in
my top 10 best movies ever. Johnny Depp shows in this moive that he is an
actor that can play anything, as he plays one of greatest charecters of
all
time, Catpain Jack Sparrow. Orlando Bloom(Legolas in LOTR),as William
Tunner, did very good in this moive, but his performance was kind of put
away by Depp's amazing performance. Keira Knightley(from Bend it Like
Beckham), as Elizabeth Swann, acting was good too, but like Bloom, Depp's
performance just made her performance look like nothing. Geoffrey Rush
play
an excellent villian in the movie.
Aside from the acting, the movie was just fun to watch. It wasn't a
moive that was trying to be everything by having philosohy, action,
comedy,
drama, etc. It was a movie that was just fun to watch, and the greatest
thing was that it was fun to watch for all ages. The movie was a bit
longer
than i expected, running around 140 min.Overall, I give this moive a 10/10. It did exactly what a movie should
do, it made you entertained throught the whole movie, from the very
beginning, to the very end.  

******
11 July 2003
9

Definitely a fun ride, fast action...a little scary for kids, but overall,
this movie was FUN! I loved Depp's version of Keith Richards.  Keira
Knightley is gorgeous!!  Orlando Bloom proves that there is life after
LOTR,
although I can't wait to see the final installment of that series.


******
11 July 2003
10

Honestly, Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom should make more
movies together! Having them together on the screen makes the
movie 10 times more enjoyable! They are absolutely brilliant
together!!!

******
11 July 2003
10

Okay, so there is little I can say.  This movie exceeded my expectations,
and I'll tell you, I had high ones from the numerous good reviews I had
read.  Just seeing Johnny Depp mincing ashore was amazing!  It's pretty
cool
what Disney puts out sometimes.

******
11 July 2003
10

I thought the movie was going to be rather cheesy (dispite the fact that
Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp were going to be in it) but it is really
one
of the best movies I've ever seen. The Camera shots/angles were awesome
and
the actor/esses did excelent jobs.

******
11 July 2003
10

this was a really good movie, the others this summer have sucked by far
compared to this one here, i mean the hulk all together was a bad movie
*in
my
opinion* and i can wait for T3 to come out on DVDjohnny depp was so funny in this movie , being a great comic relief for
all,
mr
rush....wat more can a bad guy do, be bad and ugly, so he did a great job
and
orlando bloom of course added the romantic *sigh* affect im sure to all
the
girls
in the theather....and add one hollywood newbie and ur set. great movie
for
all
types...go see it

******
11 July 2003
10

This is my favorite movie! Excellent! I personally give this movie 13
stars
only there isn't 13 stars to give it here. If you want to see this movie
go
see it. I had a party for this the first day it came out. The three
friends
and one cousin that went with me they loved it too. Go see it PIRATES OF
THE
CARIBBEAN: the curse of the black pearl rocks. Gore Verbinski is going to
be
the next Steven Spielberg. Johnny Depp is exellent Kiera Knightly is hott
and does as a great performance, and Orlando Bloom and Geffrey Rush are
both
excellent too. GO SEE IT!

******
11 July 2003
10

Haven't enjoyed a movie this good in a long time! Definitely worth its
price
in gold - It did seem to scare a few young kids around us though (what
were
their parents THINKING?). Leave the little ones at home - and prepare for
lots of belly laughs. Depp continues to be a terrific character actor!
Enjoy!

******
11 July 2003
10

This movie is awesome!!! I came to the theater thinking yeah this will
probably be a good movie, but I came out thinking what an
awe
some movie!
Its serious, but at the same time extremely funny. Also the acting in it
is
great. Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp do a fantastic job! This is one of my
favorite movies, you've got to see it if you haven't already. If you stay
till after the credits there is something extra.

******
11 July 2003
10

Well, I came into the theatre expecting a good film, and what I got
was....
a great film.  I was stunned with how good it was, it was even better than
I
was expecting.  Johnny Depp is HILARIOUS as Jack Sparrow.  I highly
recommend it to anyone!

******
11 July 2003
8

The Pirates of the Caribbean is a fun movie with great characters and a
fun
classic like story. Johnny Depp is such a fun character in this movie. I
have never seen a pirate played like the way Johnny Depp does. Crazy,
perhaps queer, but very funny and sharp. Ovverral it's a great summer
movie
SEQUEL AHOOOY!!!!

******
11 July 2003
6

This film would have been so horrible were it not for Johnny Depp, who
owns
the film. I believe it was based on some DisneyLand theme park ride (what
a
way to make a film), but there are some decent action scenes (although the
visual effects are atrocious). 6/10

******
11 July 2003
10

Yes, the menfolk are comely (I'm partial to Mr. Rush, myself), but run out
tonight and see this one for the glorious good time. I haven't had so much
fun at the movies in ages.The casting is stand-up-and-applaudable, the action never once loses its
rhythm, and the visuals are immersive and convincing. (Those who fear
trigger-happy CGI effects, worry not. They're absolutely seamless and
breathtaking, just like they're supposed to be.)I was a little wary because I'm a big fan of the park attraction. The
trailers seemed to be working against the ride, making the pirates seem
pure
villains and, worse, the female lead a contrived character created to
reverse the auction scene that has bothered overly-PC park visitors for so
long. I refuse to give away anything other than to say I was wrong to
fret.There were plenty of children in the cinema around me. None seemed
troubled
by the film, but keep in mind that those skeleton scenes are very
realistic.
(Also keep in mind that children who cannot reliably speak quietly in the
cinema need to be left at home. Please don't break the mood of this
wonderful film for the rest of us just because you either can't find a
babysitter or have an unfortunate entitlement mentality. Grr.
Arrrr.)Oh, and if someone hasn't mentioned it yet (I'm sure they have), you need
to
stay all the way through the long, long credits. Nothing spectacular
happens, but you will need to see the end-bit to fully discuss the
film.The best pirate movie ever. Ever. (And if there's a twelveplex in the next
life, I know Graham Chapman forgives me and agrees.)

******
11 July 2003
10

I could write so many words to describe what this movie made me feel.
Though
I have not the space or time on here. If anyone ever needed to see a movie
that carries every aspect of a good movie this one is it. It has humor,
beauty, intelligence, and so much non stop over the edge action. Johnny
Depp
hasn't been this fabulous since Edward Scissorhands. He is truly amazing.
As
for Orlando Bloom, this totally marks him as a truly versatile and
wondrous
actor, taking the much needed step away from Legolas, which I have to say
is
just brilliant. If you need to see or buy a movie please place this one on
top of your list!

******
11 July 2003
10

depp makes the movie, this is an entertaining thrill ride that makes you
start believing in ghost stories.
the whole cast is great and this film
does not disappoint.

******
11 July 2003
10

The movie was the best. The cast was incredible. Johnny Depp and Orlando
Bloom are not only hot but played a great team. They played their
characters
full out to their own potential. I definitly can't wait to buy the movie
and
see it all the time!

******
11 July 2003
9

This is the first movie of the summer that I felt was really worth the
ticket, and I paid full price!   There just hasn't been a movie this
summer
to get excited about (although I did like 28 Days).  Pirates of the
Caribbean was fun, start to finish, maybe a little long - could have used
more one on one swordfighting and the girl was a little too au courant
but... that's quibbling.  It was Action Adventure and PIRATES!

******
11 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is not only brilliantly done but it is a whole
lot of fun! The effects are incredible, the story is strong, the acting
is first rate...  and it is extremely entertaining! There is an excellent
mix of drama, suspense, action, and comedy... I am not a big
Johnny Depp fan - I like some of the movies he has done - but
never go to one just because he is in it . This one however is one
of Depp's best movies! He is brilliant! And for those of you who
have ridden the Disney Ride that this movie is named after - you
will especially appreciate a couple of the scenes that were pulled
from the ride and are hysterically put to life in the movie! If you see
no other movie this summer - this one is a must see! You will want
to see it several times! 

******
11 July 2003
9

I don't write many reviews or summaries but i believe this movie deserves
one. I went into the movie expecting it to be horrible. After seeing the
trailers with skeletons walking around trying to act scary and Keira
Knightley saying "like pain, try wearing a corset!" I expected to be
walking
into a bad movie. As soon as Johnny Depp hits the screen the movie became
good. His character was funny and entertaining and of course he "is the
best
pirate i have ever seen."
Knightley's stupid line was explained before hand so it really wasn't that
bad but a couple of things i thought could be improved were that Orlando
Blooms character was a wuss and i expected much more (after all he is
legolas) and the movie was really long. It didnt really lose your
interest,
its just that they could have chopped 30 minutes off of it. Not really big
complaints and definatly worth the 7 dollars to see it

******
10 July 2003
8

I heard the good reviews on the movie, but was a bit skeptical.  Hollywood
hasn't put out a good pirate movie since before most high schoolers were
born.  I saw this one because it looked to have some potential and my fiance
really wanted to see it.  That said... Hollywood got one
right.Pirates had just the right mix of humor, action, and a good story line. 
Johnny Depp played his part of Jack Sparrow to near perfection.  You almost
find yourself waiting for his next appearance on screen.  Orlando Bloom and
Keira Knightley also gave quality performance.  Most of all... the directing
in this movie was pulled off expertly.  All in all this is a must see and a must own once it hits
DVD.

******
10 July 2003
10

I had a hard time deciding if I wanted to see this movie. The fact that
Johnny Depp was in it guaranteed that I'd have to watch it at some point,
but with Bruckheimer producing and some non-impressive trailers I wasn't
that excited about it.X2 was a fair effort. Terminator 3 sucked. I was convinced this was just a
summer of duds. Thank God for Pirates. It blew those other films out of the
water. Johnny Depp is a God send. Never before have I been so enthralled in
a character. He was unbeliably fun to watch. His performance alone raises
the film from above B-movie level. The actual script isn't funny enough to
be a lot of fun, nor is it creepy enough to be a genre effort. But Depp's
interpretation of his character transforms this movie into something awe
inspiring. It gives it a completely different feel and actually helps it
retain that sort of innocent goofiness the ride has. Geoffrey Rush was also great as Captain Barbossa. The sword fight between
him and Sparrow was a stand out moment in a film full of stand out moments.
Orlando Bloom was pretty boring, but then again the role didn't require much
else other than a 'straight man' to Depp's colorful Captain. I'd heard all
these comments about how Depp was the best reason to see the film and I can
sincerely say that none of that was exaggerated. It truly is reason enough
to go see the film. The special effects are average. Nothing spectacular but nothing horrible.
The scene of the two ships doing battle is awesome. And all of the
landscapes and towns they created digitally look perfect. From start to
finish you are immersed in this world. Speaking of start to finish... waaaay
too long. While it rarely ceases to entertain, there a few patches where
you'd wish they could just move on to the next thing. Bottom line: I thought it was a great movie. Better than the previews made
it look and a lot more fun and worthy than other summer fare. I don't think
it's bold to say Depp has created one of his most memorable characters. No
small feat for a man whose resume is loaded with memorable characters. 
While its essentially a B-movie, the A-List cast and tongue in cheek
attitude help raise Pirates to something else entirely. Well worth checking
out. I give it an A- 

******
10 July 2003
9

   The best thing about "Pirates of the Caribbean" is that it does THE one
thing that seems to be rare in movies today - it actually tells a STORY!  It
is a true-blue pirate story - full of pirates, ghosts, treasure, ships
battling at sea, etc.  Johnny Depp is brilliant as Captain Jack Sparrow,
playing his character with such a uniqueness and abandonment, he is unlike
any character ever seen in American films.  Geoffrey Rush's performance as
Captain Barbossa is in the stratosphere - he plays his pirate character with
such an evil subtleness that he is extremely convincing as a pirate.  But it
is the entire cast (including all the secondary quirky characters) that
really makes this film.  The screenplay by Ted Elliot and Terry Rossio takes
the audience where every pirate movie fan wants to go.   Very impressive is the direction by Gore Verbinski, for the pacing of the
film is near-perfect.  He did a wonderful job with the swordfighting scenes
- for they are not as overly choreographed as we have seen in recent films,
but they have a real touch of reality to every move.  The cinematography of
Dariusz Wolski is first-rate, as this movie is visually wonderful to view,
as the movie-going audience becomes swept-away into another
world.   "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a movie for everyone.  It may not be a
perfect movie, but it's a great swashbuckling movie for the movie-goer who
just wants to escape.  Just the performances of Johnny Depp and Geoffrey
Rush alone are worth the price of admission.  Young girls seem happy with
the addition of Orlando Bloom to the cast, then you add the very elements
that pirate fans would want in a movie, you have the perfect ingredients for
a wonderful time and experience at the American cinema.  Hollywood should
take notice - if a good story is told (and not rely solely on special
effects, CGI and/or explosions), then people WILL flock to the theater every
week and attendance records would be broken every year.


******
10 July 2003
10

This is definatly one of Disney's best achievments in recent years.  It is
also one of the best adventure films that I have seen in a long time,
probably since Indiana Jones.  A great cast, combined with a fantastic
script, excellent sets, costumes, and special effects, and wonderful
directing, and Disney has a movie which is worth viewing over and over
again.  

******
10 July 2003
10

Wow, it is so good. It was witty, silly, action-filled, and heartfelt.
What
more can you ask for? Johnny Depp was amazing-- as well as Geoffrey Rush,
Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightley. I think they could have messed this
up,
but they certainly didn't. It was everything I wanted it to be and much
more!

******
10 July 2003
10

Okay, I have been waiting to see this movie forever(being Orlando Bloom
fan
and a blow-them-up movie fan), but it truly surpasses my expectations.  I
was laughing all the way through the movie, the action sequences are fun
and
funny at the same time. I've heard some complaints that the movie is long
and the action is a bit repetitive after a while, but each fight is
actually
different, with their own little signatures that makes them enjoyable and
funny.The fight choreography is great, reminescence of Zorro and Princess
Bride(not that much of a surprise, since they all share the same
choreographer.  Bob Anderson is the greatest=)).  And for some strange
reason, some part of the movie also reminded me of Princess Bride(battle
of
wits).  Frankly, I actually had to engage my brain to follow that bit,
which
I didn't expect from this action flick.And as much as I am 'obsessed' with Orlando Bloom, it is Johnny Depp as
Captain Jack Sparrow that makes this movie great.  Maybe it's just me, but
I
find everything he does hilarious and likeable.  Anyway, the supporting
cast
gives solid performances but they all pale in comparison to Depp.Orlando Bloom is good as Will(very different from Legolas), but his
character doesn't give him that much room for development or a chance to
shine(just a normal romantic, straight-forward and noble hero).  Keira
Knightley is cool as the feisty and resourceful female lead, but she
doesn't
quite stand out as much as I first expected, her being the only 'girl' in
the group and stuff.  Even Geoffrey Rush's Barbossa seemed a bit
lackluster,
a villain who's never quite truly evil enough to be the film's major 'bad
guy' or nice enough to make people empathize with him.I paid $11 per ticket(curse online ticket purchasing that charges $1.50
servive fee per ticket), and it's definitely worth the money.  I took my
aunt, and she loved it too, saying it's very funny and entertaining.  I'm
definitely looking forward to seeing it again on my b-day.It's just has the right blend of action and humor that sets it apart.  I
can't believe I'm saying this for real(as in not because of my obsession
with Orlando Bloom), this is my favorite movie of the summer.  I used to
rank Finding Nemo first for the humor and X2 right after that for the
entertaining action; but this one has it all, humor, action and eye
candy(at
least for me).  The story is plausible, i.e. I didn't get distracted by it
because it has too many internal inconsistencies or is too 'dumb' to
believe.  I highly recommend it.I'm stingent on giving points, so I'll give it a 9/10.


******
10 July 2003
9

The Walt Disney Company, which has been known for family fun and
entertainment, has had moderate success at the box office with their
animated films and pre-teen oriented live action films. Unfortunately they
have not had the success of franchises like Harry Potter or the Lord of the
Rings. Disney has been so desperate for a hit lately that they have dug not
only into their archives and remaking some of their classic films like
Freaky Friday but they have attempted to make film versions of their famous
Disneyland attractions. Their first attempt at making the cross over from
attraction to film, The Country Bears, was an embarrassment. The film barely
(pardon the pun) pulled in $16 million in its entire run against a
production budget of $20 million. Not only was the film a financial failure
but a critical one as well. The studio hopes to bounce back from that
failure with the film version of Pirates of the Caribbean. Pirates is helmed
by Gore Verbinski, director of the horror hit The Ring, and produced by
Jerry Bruckheimer. Not only that but it stars Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp
with special effects created by Industrial Light and Magic. How could it
fail? Quite easily. The film is about pirates and pirates have been deemed
box office poison for years. Look at Disney's Treasure Planet as a most
recent example. So can the good aspects out weigh the bad and break the
pirate curse or will all this `yo ho, ho' be just a `bottle of
rum'?The story follows the adventures of Captain Jack Sparrow, a pirate who seems
to be low on his luck. It all started when he crew created mutiny on his
ship nearly ten years ago and left him deserted on an island in the middle
of the Caribbean. Ever since then he has been moving from place to place
searching for the Black Pearl. It is just by coincidence that he is captured
on the same island where the last piece of cursed treasure is located. What
cursed treasure? The treasure of Cortez that was stolen by the crew, lead by
Captain Barbossa, that mutinied nearly ten years ago. The problem is that
treasure was cursed and unless the treasure is returned, these men will be
the living undead. They will turn into skeletons at night but look human in
the daylight. They will also be unable to eat, drink, sleep, or even feel
until the curse is broken. WillTurner, a blacksmith of the town, joins with
Captain Jack after Barbossa and his crew kidnaps his true love, Elizabeth
Turner. But there are more mysterious reasons for Turner to follow the Black
Pearl that involve Captain Jack Sparrow as well. The story for The Curse of
the Black Pearl is an exciting one though there are many holes in it. Those
holes always seem to appear in the scripts of Bruckheimer films, so this
film seems to be no different. It is best just to ignore those holes in the
plot and sit back to enjoy a great action flick. One has to admit, though,
that the dialogue within the film was much more serious then previous
Bruckheimer films which indicate he is learning to mature his film
making.The cast for Pirates of the Caribbean is very well put together. Johnny
Depp, who has worked on Sleepy Hollow and Edward Scissorhands, is probably
the best feature of the film outside the special effects. Depp makes the
role of Captain Jack Sparrow his very own and presents a style to him that
makes you want to trust him but knowing he is a pirate tells you to be wary.
The comedic timing presented Depp is absolutely perfect and works very well
in every scene he is in. Depp performs so well that you feel an emotional
connection to him that makes the ending all the more intense. Orlando Bloom,
who is best known for his role in The Lord of the Rings series, does a good
job as Will Turner. There are still some questions about the character that
remain unanswered at the end of the film but that has more to do with the
script then with Bloom's performance. Geoffrey Rush is absolutely devilish
as Captain Barbossa. He presents a style that is both charming and creepy at
the same time, which works exceedingly well in this film. Keira Knightly,
who had a breakout role in Bend It like Beckham, does a wonderful job as
Elizabeth Swann, the governor's daughter who is much tougher then most would
think. The remainder of the cast is perfect for the most part. The only role
that seems out of place is Governor Swann, played by Jonathan Pryce. There
just seemed to be too little of the character and when the character is
shown, he doesn't do anything for the scenes. He is just a mere distraction
that doesn't work very well.Overall, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is probably
one of the best action flicks of the year. There may be a lot of holes in
the plot of the story and at moments there may be no point to certain sword
fights, but that doesn't seem to matter at all. The special effects, created
by Industrial Light and Magic, are the most amazing CGI work that has been
seen in quite awhile. The skeletons look absolutely astounding and look even
better in the final fight sequence of the film. The musical score for the
picture is very original and works so well. Altogether everything seems to
come together for the film and presents a delightful action flick that is so
rare these days. There were very few problems for the film. The only one
that can be thought of right away is the time length. At a time of two hours
and twenty minutes, the film seems a bit too longer for the audience that it
is intended for but that is a small squabble compared to overall effect of
the film. Not a theatrical classic but an out and out good popcorn action
flick for the whole family.My Rating: ****1/2 out of 5 (Grade: A)

******
10 July 2003
10

I'm the first person to cheer a movie that successfully enters the realm
of
"art" with deep, fulfilling plots, but when did being simply entertaining
become something to apologize for?POTC succeeds as pure escapist fun on every level possible.  I watched
the
movie in a theater full of a fairly mixed audience, ranging from around
9-10
to 50, and everyone seemed to have a great time.  Being the parent of an
11-year-old myself, I can say that it's possible that more easily
frightened
children might have issues, but mine ate it up and wanted to turn right
back
around and see it again.Unlike some, I had no problem with the length of the film.  Frankly, any
film with a running time over 100 minutes gets a bonus point from me
these
days, regardless of how terrible it may turn out to be.  Not having a
stunted attention span myself, I am generally offended at the idea of
paying
the same amount for a 90 minute piece of fluff that I would for a 3-hour
epic.  I was glad to see that the film was longer, and I barely noticed
the
time passing at all.But enough of the soapbox: POTC was funny, exciting, engaging, and just
plain enjoyable.  Well worth seeing on the big screen (and worth seeing
several times, in my opinion).

******
10 July 2003
10

I dont know about those of you reading this, but its rare for me, (a 31
year
old
man) to walk out of a theater feeling like a little kid
again.Watching this movie, I became 10 again, desperately wanting to be the
characters I was watching.  In fact, I envy the young kids that get to go
home
after this film, meet their friends in the backyard and have mock sword
fights with
any bit of stick they can find.Although a tid-bit long, this film is what summer movies are all about.
You
don't
need to wow me with a gimmicky end, you dont need to send me into comma
as
I try to understand what the director was trying to say.....  simply
entertain us.
You may not get as much sword fighting as you like, or perhaps you will
want
to
see more 'damsel-in-distress,'  or you want more undead butchery.....
but
mark
my words, most of you will walk out of this film feeling good, and having
had fun.The best part of this film is with out a doubt, Johnny Depp.  I believe
that
he has
chalked up yet another unforgettable character.  IMO Depp will live on in
film's
history as one of the most colorful actors ever.Keira Knightly, what can be said....  Disney may have just found the next
fresh
face.Take your kids to this movie....  you owe it to them!


******
10 July 2003
10

I absolutely loved this movie!!!! Out of all the new movies that came out
this year, PotC is my favorite by far!!!It has:Great Acting-
Johnny Depp stole the show. He was so funny and nonchalant that you just
had
to like him. Geoffrey Rush was excellent as Barbossa. Funny at times, but
very determined to get what he wanted. Orlando Bloom (excuse me while I
fall
out of my chair.....I'm back now.) was excellent, as well as cute, as a
pirate. He was perfect acting with Johnny Depp, because he was everything
Depp wasn't. His character was funny at times, but basically more
serious,
and more determined than Depp it seemed to me. Keira Knightley was good.
She
played a good damsel in distress, as well as a watch out pirates, I will
kick you butt if you come any closer.Humor-
There were so many funny scenes and one-liners, which I thought were
funny,
as well as the guy behind me that couldn't stop laughing. Depp was
WONDERFUL
in this department.Action-
The classic, and non-classic, swordfighting scenes were all great, and
interesting when you couple them with the fact that some of the pirates
couldn't die.Special Effects-
All the explosions were great, but the best thing was how the cursed
pirates
slipped in and out of the moonlight, and turned into corpses and back
without stopping the fight. Very weird.My last thing, is that even though I usually hate pirate movies, I LOVED
THIS ONE!!!!I truly can't find a thing wrong with it...which is why I give it a10/10

******
10 July 2003
10

Being a WDW cast member, my boyfriend was anxiously awaiting this film
for a
long time. I, on the other hand, couldn't get too excited about going to
see
this knock-off of my favorite Magic Kingdom ride, on which I rode three
times in the last month! But he was able to drag me along for the movie
last
night, and I sure am glad I went!This movie is filled with goose-bump generating action and effects, not
the
Gouda and cheddar cheese I was expecting. And the eye candy . OH the eye
candy! The leads are so easy on the eyes I felt mesmerized by each one as
they graced the screen -- especially Johnny Depp. A chick flick pirate
film?
Maybe!I'll go see this again for sure. And buy the DVD. Disney hasn't
disappointed
me yet this summer -- glad my annual pass fare is going to good use
:)

******
10 July 2003
10

I went to this movie because it was someone else's turn to pick and I
ended
up really liking it! Yes, it's an action flick with moments of lovelorn
cheese, but if you're a fan of Johnny Depp's work you'll love it. He's
amazing in the role of Jack Sparrow, making a character who in other
circumstances you might not like, 100% loveable. Second to Depp is
Geoffrey
Rush who, frankly, I would watch fight his way out of a paper bag for two
hours; he's just that good in everything. He's very good in this as
well.
If you keep in mind that this movie is supposed to be FUN and that it's
based on a DISNEY theme ride, you'll enjoy it very much.
CG-wise the "pirate underwater" scene is very cool and that's all I'm
going
to say about that.

******
10 July 2003
10

Campy dialoge, great action sequences, and fantastic characters make this
THE movie of summer 2003.  Given it's origins it's TONS more fun than it
deserves to be and is fun to watch the whole way through.  When its not
action packed it's funny, when its not funny or action packed it's tense.
When I left the theater I couldn't think of one thing I didn't like about
it.
10 out of 10

******
10 July 2003
8

This movie is a wonderful ride into the world of pirates.Depp and Rush are magnificient and they add a lot of depth to the movie .On the contrary, Bloom is completely plain and transparent. His
performance
certainly is disappointing.
The score is classic for a Buckheimer's production but it works well
and
I give an 7 for the movie and a 10 for Depp and Rush
performances

******
10 July 2003
8

Based on the trailer, I was not looking forward to this movie other than
as
a chance to oogle at Depp & Bloom.  It certainly was nice to find out
that
the best scenes were NOT given away in the trailer!  Depp does a
marvellous
job at keeping the film on an even keel and a physically funny
performance.
Bloom had the easy job of being the handsome hero and he did it
admirably.
How lucky is Knightley to have worked (and still in 2004's King Arthur)
with
so many young talented gorgeous actors!

******
10 July 2003
10

This movie is great! solid plot, solid swashbuckling characters, and a
performance by Johnny Depp that keeps everyone entertained, with his
version
of a (slightly drunk all the time) pirate. And also Wonderful acting by
Orlando Bloom as the wonderfully romantic hero. This was a GREAT
swashbuckling adventure (pay NO attention to the cynical fools at
Entertainment Weekly).
Movies are made to entertain, this did it.
One of the best films in theatres this year!P.S This kicks Matrix reloaded's ASS


******
10 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is one of the best movies of this year. and all
the
thanks should go to Orlando Bloom. There was not a scene or a line of
dialogue that I found boring. See this movie! The $$ you spend at the
theatre to watch Oralndo kick butt  is worth every penny.

******
10 July 2003
10

This movie was excellent. Throughout the entire movie my friends and I
were
totally absorbed. We've needed a new Swashbuckling movie, a good one that
is, for a long time, and this did it. I had my doubts because it was a
disney movie and i was afraid they would "disnafy" it, but i didnt
realize
until someone pointed it out afterwards, that there was no cursing,
MINIMAL
gore and sex, Disney pulled off the pirate look well.It was an exciting drama, with fun action (and not just action for the
sake
of action, and im very tempted to call it a comedy as everyone in  the
theatre was laughing. Excellent performances by Orlando Bloom, who was
wonderful as the heroic-romantic lead (with a very good Johnny Depp
impression) and of course Johnny Depp, who totally made this character
come
to life, and was the most entertaining part.

******
10 July 2003
10

I have seen many movies this summer, but this has by far been the best.
This
movie combined action, character development, humor, computer graphics
and
plot into a fun and fabulous movie. This movie kept twisting and turning
and
never got stale. The interactions between the characters were wonderful.
Also, finally a female lead who actually has gumption, courage, and the
ability to kick some behind. So many times these female leads are written
so
that any spunk is an after thought. Overall, you can't be
disappointed!

******
10 July 2003
10

I went on the premiere day, and been anxiously waiting to see this. I was
not let down in any way.. it's everything and more than I wished for!
Johnny
Depp did play a great part in this movie. He was very pleasing to watch,
and
brought some laughs. Orlando Bloom was why I waited so much to see POTC.
I
couldn't wait to see him outside of the blonde wig as Legolas. Johnny and
Orlando did great together!! I would definitely recommend this film to
anyone who likes action, laughs, and attractive people.

******
10 July 2003
10

I loved this movie. It turned out to be better than I thought. Orlando is
HOT....Johnny's portrayal of Jack Sparrow was hilarious! He was
brilliant.
His comedic timing was there and it made it easier for the cast to play
off
of that. It's just a fun movie! Go see it! 

******
10 July 2003
10

I grew up on Disneyland.  Seeing this movie was an amazing experience for
me
on so many levels.  The way they integrated scenes from the ride into the
movie were soooooo awesome.  And then the cinematography and the costumes
were mind blowing.  And not to mention the acting -- especially Johnny
Depp's.  He was surprisingly witty and funny.  And seeing him and Orlando
Bloom do anything -- drool!

******
10 July 2003
10

"Pirates of the Caribbean" was truly the movie of the year!  The actors
were
so perfect for their characters, and the chemistry was there.  The humor
was
just right for an audience of all ages.  With action, humor, and
Orlando...it was bound to be a great movie!

******
10 July 2003
10

I'm so proud of Disney! This movie definitely lived up to my
expectations.
Johnny Depp was hilarious, Orlando Bloom did a wonderful job, and Keira
Knightley did wonderful as well. This movie was funny, creepy, and
engaging.
I didn't find myself looking at my watch once, which is always an
indicator
of a good movie. This movie was very well made and the special effects
were
just awesome. I hope this movie does well. I definitely recommend
it!

******
10 July 2003
10

Johnny Depp does it again!  Although in my opinion Depp has wooed us many
of
times, "Capt. Jack Sparrow" is by far, one of his finest performances.
I'd
expect nothing less from this talented actor.Johnny Depp IS the most under-rated actor in Hollywood.


******
10 July 2003
10

I've already commented twice on this (that's how much I love this film!)
because I can't get all my thoughts through in one.This one is dedicated to the fantastic actorsTwo of my favorite actors are Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp (and although
they are gorgeous, that's not my reasoning, I assure you). This is one of
my
favorite movies johnny has acted in. He was AMAZING! The character was
funny
enough and entertaining, but like in everything else he does, He made
this
character above and beyond. He was the funniest part, and he made the
character come to life. He was a rouge through and through just what the
movie called for.Orlando is always fantastic. This was no exception. Every swashbuckling
films needs the heroic lead. and he did it wonderfully. He was romantic,
passionate, heroic...the list goes on and ends with PERFECT!
And yet he was still funny (especially his impression of Johnny
Depp!)Well done to the casting directors!

******
10 July 2003
10

I LOVED this movie! It didn't try to be too serious, it didn't try to be
anything it wasn't. It was campy (in a good way), funny, spooky...just
plain
FUN! I was hoping that it was as good as all the trailers looked and it
didn't disappoint. The acting was really good, the sets and scenery were
fantastic, and you can never have enough sword play! And there is no need
to
discuss how cool the cursed crew was because they were just that...just
plain COOL!!! Awesome job ILM!!!Okay, I'll admit it...I am a HUGE Johnny Depp fan, and his portrayal of
Captain Jack Sparrow was nothing short of magnificent, and I could go on
and
on forever about his wonderful performance. Having said that the other
actors deserve some praise too! Geoffrey Rush was a GREAT villain (but
then,
that goes without saying because he's good at everything he does), and
Orlando Bloom was a great romantic lead...he was very handsome,
swashbuckling, funny when the situation called for it, and I thought he
had
really nice chemistry with his lady love. Don't know much about Keira
Knightley, but she was very good as the damsel in distress...but not that
MUCH distress. Feisty governor's daughter, wasn't she???After all the hype about this movie I was afraid of a let down (see the
last
two Star Wars movies!) but I was NOT disappointed! I plan on seeing this
movie again...and probably again!!

******
10 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is a great summer movie that never takes itself
too
seriously. I don't think since Toy Story has Disney had such a remarkable
movie on its hands: one parents and children alike can enjoy. This film
covers all audiences and is an excellent date movie. I won't say much
more
for fear of spoiling this rollicking, swaggering adventure, so see it
yourself!

******
10 July 2003
10

the Pirates of the Caribbean is probably one of the few films that sets
out
to show you a good time and holds nothing back in the delivery. The idea
of
this movie may have been taken from an attraction at a theme park but
that
is where line ends.  This movie is amazing.  The action is spectacular
and
not  overly graphic so everyone can enjoy this movie.  The special
effects
were incredible.  Not the best around but very convincing.  During the
final fight between Johnny Depp and Geoffery Rush the effects are
flawless.
But the thing that i enjoyed so much was the humor.  the fact that this
movie was not meant to be taken seriously was very appealing.  The two
british guards adding the color comedy during the entire movie as well as
the two bumbling pirates.  The characters were another huge asset to this
movie and Johnny Depp's portrayal of Captain Jack Sparrow is probably the
best i have seen him in lately.  Geoffery Rush is equally good as the
cursed
pirate Captain Barbossa and Orlando Bloom is quite good as Will.  All in
all
this movie should be seen by anyone wanting to have a good time watching
a
movie.  I guarantee that you will walk out with a smile on your
face.

******
10 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean (PotC) is an exceptional film unique in our film
scene today.  Not only have pirate films not been common since the days of
Errol Flynn, but as others have put it, they portray leads that have a
mixed
standing in America; half hero, half villain.Johnny Depp is exceptional in PotC as Captain Jack Sparrow, playing a
rather
cunning, if down on luck pirate in the eyes of both the British guard and
amongst his fellow pirates.  He provides much comic relief with his laid
back swagger and in-conversation wise cracks.  He does his good pirate/bad
pirate thing well, and when Orlando Bloom is asked whose side he's on,
Bloom
tells it like it is; "Ours... for now."Orlando Bloom and his love interest Keira Knightley, daughter of the
Governor, fit their roles well as a rather scrawny blacksmith and well
versed swordsman and very slightly tomboyish young lady with agendas
different from her father's, respectively.  Bloom and Depp have pretty
decent and sometimes funny chemistry when interacting, and the more
romantic
scenes between Knightley and Bloom are a cut above the
rest.Where PotC also shines is in the visuals.  The pirate/skeleton changing
due
to the exposure to certain kinds of light is flawless, and will most
definitely get at least an Oscar nomination, if not the statuette.  The
fight scenes, consisting mostly of sword duels and intra-ship cannon
warfare, are well done and look very realistic, even in scenes between the
evil skeleton pirates and the protagonists.  The imagery back on Bloom's
home island of the British redcoats, old cobblestone streets and the
moorings on the coast are also very well done.Some homages are paid to the ride in Disneyworld, but this isn't just some
kiddie-park ride.  Everyone can enjoy this movie, except for some
nitpickers; with most period pieces and movies in general, they can find
inaccuracies.  But if you find some, don't despair; the movie is
definitely
worth seeing.

******
10 July 2003
7

i didnt really like this one as much, maybe because i'm just a pure action
chick with a thirst for better acting from Mr. Bloom. I like seeing him
better as a kick-butt elf- but thats only my opinion. I think Johnny Depp
did the best acting there. He really did a great job being "the worst
pirate
there is" and totally brought his character to life. The walk, the talk,
the
comedic performance here and there.. i'd give Mr. Depp an A+. Orlando, all
i
have to say is- i think you should've done more Pirate homework instead of
Elf homework.. Sorry!

******
10 July 2003
6

-Okay, Boring, Slow, Sometimes Good.
-Special effects good, some good action scenes.
-Starts off VERY slow, boring.
-No character development. Johnny Depp's character seems to "overdo
it."
-The movie is more about events, and it forgets to infuse human element
and
character into it.
-Okay/a little better than average for a summer movie.
-The sets, costumes, and special effects were better than the movie
itself.

******
10 July 2003
10

I think that this movie was excellent. when you have a movie with orlando
bloom and jonny deep in it how can it not be excellent. plus it had a
great
plot and it followed the story line very well. this was one of the best
movies i have ever seen and therefor i gave it a ten!!!
i cant wait till oscar are here because it deserves an
award!

******
10 July 2003
8

I saw Pirates of the Caribbean on opening day for two reasons: the boys,
and
Gore Verbinski.
As for the boys, Pirates delivered in full.  Johnny Depp added sex appeal,
spirit, and above all humor to Captain Jack Sparrow. He pulled off the
sort
of acting job that is expected from this well rounded actor and gave the
movie a little zip.  He carried the show through his delivery of zesty
one-liners and never-ending supply of wit.  Orlando bloom also did an
excellent job as further acting eye candy but the character left a little
more to be desired.  He was missing a lot of (for lack of a better word)
presence when juxtaposed next to the insatiable Jack Sparrow.
And as for Gore Verbinski, bravo.  The movie was a blast to watch from
beginning to end.
Along with them, good special effects, and a surprisingly nice job from
Kiera Knightly, Pirates of the Caribbean was certainly entertaining and
well
worth matinee prices.
But beware:  a few horrible lines, obvious cliches, and a disappointing
appearance from the token girl pirate lurk below.

******
10 July 2003
10

It's about time we had a good pirate movie demonstrating the gruesome
filthy
lives the pirates once concurred. Johnny Depp...was hilarious, he
definately
needs many more comical roles. The overall movie was excellent, pirate
tales
are always enjoyed, and The Pirates of the Caribbean is no different. And
a
movie based on the disney ride, also an excellent idea. I can't wait for
The
Haunted Mansion, starring Eddie Murphy, also based on a disney ride. Keira
Knightley and Orlando Bloom display some of the up and coming stars, also
showing that Geoffrey Rush is still a very amazing actor. Overall, there
isn't that many pirate movies and the fact is, well, there is no fact,
pirate movies are awesome. Go see this movie, it has everything, comedy,
action, adventure, and everything else. SEE IT! I'll see it
again.

******
10 July 2003
10

This film is simply amazing. I am a long time Johnny Depp fan but in this
picture he just blew me away. Also kudos to Orlando Bloom and Geofrey
Rush............fantastic performances.This film is pure unadulterated
FUN!!!!!!!!!!

******
10 July 2003
10

I loved this movie! I've actually seen Cutthroat Island, but Pirates beats
it by a long shot! I actually loved it so much that after i saw it for the
first time i had to sneak in to see it for the second time.  The acting
was
great and i think whoever did the casting for this movie did a great job
of
getting Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow! He was hilarious and
entertaining. Keira Knightly also did a great job as Elizabeth also,
especially with all her screaming. And Orlando Bloom. What can i say? I've
already thought he did a terrific job as Legolas from Lord of the Rings,
but
I have to say that as Will Turner he did an awesome job! And i definitely
have to applaud Gore Verbinski for directing this and Jerry Bruckheimer
for
producing this. 10/10 stars.


******
10 July 2003
10

In my mind a summer "flick" is full of action, has a great cast that
keeps
your eyes glued to the screen and makes my sides hurt. POTC delivers all
that and more. While this movie may be looked down upon by the educated
elite as being mere fluff, I think, "what's wrong with fluff?" POTC
doesn't
proclaim itself to be a film that will change your life or draw attention
to
the plight of the poor endangered pirate parrots. It is what it is. A
great
movie to go and escape from life too. Johnny Depp delivers yet another
memorable performance as Captain Jack Sparrow. From the moment we first
see
him atop the mast surveying his domain right through till the credits
roll,
Depp captures your attention with his swaggering brazenness and lopsided
smile. Depp commands attention, but is equally willing to share the
spotlight with  Orlando Bloom who plays the endearing orphan, Will
Turner.
The only thing Bloom's character has in common with his LOTR Legolas is
they
are both good with their swords. Bloom shows great versatility in going
from
the stoic Legolas to the endearing Turner. This film is as funny as it is
packed with action. In fact it was quite a bit funnier than I thought it
would be. The entire cast fit together so perfectly from the
devil-may-care
Sparrow to the stick-up-his-bum Norrington(played to the hilt by Jack
Davenport.) Keira Knightly was exquisite as the not-so-typical damsel in
distress. Knightly kept up with the men and showed herself to be their
equal
in every way. If you are looking for a night of funny quips and flashing
sword tips, go see this film. If you want to contemplate the meaning of
life, go home and read Shakespeare.

******
10 July 2003
10

I thought that Orlando Bloom, while a complete heart-throb, did not
compliment this movie. At many parts, he seemed very strained and almost
as
though he was having trouble playing the part. Honestly, I think they
should
have eliminated him completely.The rest of the cast, I thought, did an amazing job and the movie turned
out
to be...very nice. Slight language, but an all-around good movie.
However,
don't bring young children to the movie. I had to sit for 2 1/2 hours
listening to children screaming in fright at the sudden appearance of
ghostly pirates...and it was not an enjoyable experience.

******
10 July 2003
10

This movie was wonderful. I will recommend this movie to everyone. I give
it
2 thumbs way up. Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom did great in this film. As
well the other actors. Disney has hit there mark. You should all see this
film. At the theater people were saying "This is a good
movie".

******
10 July 2003
7

I'm surprised at the great reviews this movie is getting on the IMDB
since
it's definitely not a great movie.  It's overlong, has an extremely weak
ending, even by Hollywood standards, and boasts action sequences that
are,
to put it charitably, not particularly well-directed.  In fact Cutthroat
Island for all it's flaws had far superior action sequences.  The only
thing
that really makes this movie better than this Summer's other Hollywood
blow
'em up crap like Charlie's Angels Full Throttle and Terminator 3 is
Johnny
Depp.  He brings great humor and eccentricity to every scene he is in and
single handedly makes this pirate movie a hoot.  If only the rest of the
movie were half as good.

******
10 July 2003
10

When i first walked into the theather, i was expecting something
different,
more serious. Boy was i ever wrong. It was a funny, halarious
comdey-action
film. It was a sort of movie that went from funny to serious back and
forth
all throughout the movie. I recommend this movie for those of you who like
movies such as Lord of the Rings and pirate movies. I liked this movie
becuase i am a big Johnny Depp fan, also because i like pirates. I would
not
recommend this movie to people who are afraid of skeletons, dead people or
have nightmares becuase there are some scences that you might not like.
Also
i do not recommend this movie for young children who are easily
frightened.

******
10 July 2003
9

Johnny Depp is excellent in this movie. I couldn't imagine anyone better
fit
for the part. The stunts were amazing, and the visual effects were good
and
didn't overpower the story-line.  Although a bit loud at times, it is
definitely a must-see. Orlando Bloom also gives an excellent
performance.

******
10 July 2003
10

I loved this movie...Depp, Bloom,and Rush were brillant. And the young
Keira
looks like a combo of Natalie Portman and Jennifer Gardner...she is
beautiful and played the damsel role well...Special effects are great and
the sword fights are very realistic.This is a must see!!!!

******
10 July 2003
8

This was a thoroughly entertaining film. Yes, the fights did tend to run a
little long and yes, the movie could have been a tad shorter, but all in
all, it was a very fun, entertaining experience. I especially enjoyed the
performance by Johnny Depp as Capt. Jack Sparrow, it alone was worth the
$7
of addmission.   

******
10 July 2003
10

This movie was great!  Johnny Depp truly created a one of a kind
character!
He absolutely made this movie a great movie.   I appreciate the fact that
they really took the time to develop the majority of the characters in
this
movie and they became people...  not just a means to get the story line
rolling or to fill in gaps.  A+

******
10 July 2003
10

I have just seen this movie and I must say, it has topped all of my
personal
charts.  It had it all, really really hot guys who aren't cheesy actors,
a
great storyline, awesome swordfights, fantastic special effects, and yes,
they even managed to squeeze a romance into all that action.  For a movie
based on a rollercoaster ride I was completely blown away!  I love all
genres of movies and this one covered them all.  I have never laughed so
hard at a movie before.
So I hereby give this movie three cheers and a hearty ARRRGH!


******
10 July 2003
10

one of the better depp films since edward scissorhands.no dragging scenes.
great action, script. good characters played by bloom and depp. would see
again for the laughs depp gives his auidence.

******
10 July 2003
8

Much better than I expected from a movie based on a Disney
ride.
Good story line, great special effects, very entertaining.
There were a few little things that bothered me, but not enough to take
away
from the overall experience.

******
10 July 2003
8

Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean is not your usual sappy makeover of a
theme park ride, no it's much much more.  Pirates tells the tale of
Captain
Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and the blacksmith Turner (Orlando Bloom) in
thier attempts to rescue Turner's love Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) from
the
lawless pirates lead by Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush).
The special effects are excellent and the plot is simple enough to
follow along nicely. Sword fighting, cannon booming, and pirate snarling
are
just a few tacts used in the fighting scenes.  Longer than it had to be
(cough...like the Hulk) but has enough humor to get you your moneys
worth.
Rush is great as the demented Barbossa, as is Bloom as the heroine
Turner.
The show belongs mainly to Depp, with his drunk-slurry Sparrow he manages
to
conjure up a hilarious performance as if he were preparing for Fear and
Loathing 2.


******
9 July 2003
8

In the summers of the 1930's and 40's, if you wondered into your local movie
theatre chances are you'd see a daring pirate off on some swashbuckling
adventure.  Walk into the theatre today, and find a barrage of f/x laden
sci-fi/fantasy films.  Pirates of the Caribbean is the best combination of
both.The success of the film is thanks heavily to Gore Verbinski.  I've always
liked Gore's style, but felt he never had the movie to let him realize his
potential (see "The Ring").  Verbinski and his cinematographer paint just
some beautiful scenes in the film.  Some are enhanced by digital grading and
other effects features, and it lends the film a great atmosphere and epic
look.  He also directs his actions scenes expertly, not going edit happy
like most directors.  But of course, you can't have a great adventure film without a great hero. 
And you can't have a great hero without a great actor.  Enter Johnny Depp,
the ultra-hip, charismatic leading man who is always the highlight of the
film he works in.  Captain Jack Sparrow is just a downright cool cat, thanks
largely to the help of Depp.  Depp himself added much the his characters
costume and personal quirks, and his Depp's comedic timing is a spot on as
ever. Just pure genius Johnny, as always.   Orlando Bloom does nicely as
well, but it really felt more like he was warming up for his role in the
next Lord of the Rings movie.  Geoffrey Rush found a even balance of
subtlety and over acting, not extending the use of either, and though while
not too memorable, it is still a good performance.  Keira Knightley is
nothing really worth mentioning.  Typical damsel role, typical performance. 
Any actress could have handled the part, though must wouldn't have been as
attractive.The story and screenplay is very much "Old" Hollywood, a more slick line of
dialogue that is light and fun without being cheesy.  It's levity is not
forced, but transcends naturally from the actors and Gore's dream like
directing.All in all, it is one of the most fun movies too come out of hollywood in a
long time.  It's a nod to the golden age of Hollywood with the visual
conscience of a modern blockbuster.  The actors are great, Verbinski
provides the smooth look, and the screenplay as joy written all over it.  
Not to be missed if you like to have fun7.5/10* * * 1/2 / * * * * 


******
9 July 2003
8

There were many reasons to expect a particularly bad film, despite the list
of talented actors that included Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, and Orlando
Bloom. The fact that the entire is based upon a Disney theme park attraction
makes one expect to see a cheesy kids movie. And let us not forget the
horror of a film that was thrown at us the last time movie execs came up
with the same brilliant idea: The Country Bears. But alas, Disney may have struck gold in Pirates of the Carribean: The Curse
of The Black Pearl. It is a wonderfully fun action flick, albeit slightly
too long, coming in at a padded 2 hours and 23 minutes. Granted, no academy
awards will be won for the picture (except possibly for special effects or
costume design), but it does not disappoint. It is filled with a thorough
plot that leads us through some epic adventures and extremely fun battles.The acting, in particular, is top notch in this movie, led by the great
Johnny Depp. It is hard to come up with the right words that can describe
the way in which he portrayed Captain Jack Sparrow, but either way, it was
nothing short of fantastic. Nobody else in the cast can seem to match the
level of intensity that Mr. Depp does, but they all do an admirable job
trying. Geoffrey Rush, as his arch-villain ex- first mate, Captain Barbosa,
creates a believable villain that movie goers will love to hate. Orlando
Bloom (the reason many young ladies will be seeing this movie I suspect)
also does a great job portraying Will Turner, a blacksmith and childhood
friend of Elizabeth Swann, played by the lovely Keira Knightley, whom he is
very much in love with, unbeknownst to her. There are also several
supporting actors who add great depth to this movie, such as Jack Davenport
(Norrington), Jonathan Price (Governor Weatherby Swann, Elizabeth's father),
and several others.Not going into many specifics as to not spoil the fun for those who have yet
to catch the film, Jack Sparrow, as captain of The Black Pearl, was ambushed
by Barbosa and his men and left for dead. They went on to find a great
treasure, which came with a great curse: under the light of the moon, it is
revealed that they are nothing but skeletons; undead. Ms. Swann owns a piece
of the treasure that is needed to erase the curse, so she is kidnapped along
with said treasure. Will Turner, her childhood friend and secret admirer
busts Sparrow out of jail and they are off to save his love. Adventure and
excitement ensue.The effects in this movie are particularly great, not as much for their
visual portrayal, but for their originality. It would have been very easy to
make the skeletons of the crew of The Black Pearl white and ordinary (like
the kind in the classroom of a high school Biology professor), but they
didn't. The fight scenes between the real life actors and the CGI skeletons
are also fantastic. The bottom line is that this movie is solid all around. There is nothing
about this movie that makes for a great movie, but I imagine that it was
never really supposed to be one, and that is admirable. In the end, this
movie is exactly what it was meant to be, a good, fun adventure.My rating: 8/10

******
9 July 2003
8

I'm not the biggest fan of action/adventure films. Also the fact that it's
based on a 
ride is rather strange. I went to this movie mostly because my friends
wanted to 
see it, and I was blown away. Not only is the acting great, the fight scenes
and 
special effects amazing, but it's has funny and has a great story
line.Another surprise for me was what an excellent job Johnny Depp did. I am notusually a Johnny Depp fan, but I think he was absolutely perfect for the
part of 
Captain Jack Sparrow. I don't think anyone could've done better. And since
the 
movie was based on the ride, for those who haven't yet seen the movie but
have 
been on the ride at one of the Disney parks, keep your eyes peeled for therecreations of the ride in the movie.8 out of 10 stars

******
9 July 2003
10

I just got back from seeing this movie and I was overwhelmed.  I wasn't sure
what to expect and was terrified that it'd be another Cutthroat Island bomb.
 One of my favorite things to collect is pirate paraphernalia so I was very
heavily anticipating this movie -- making me certain I was setting myself up
for disappointment... Thank GOD I was wrong!Johnny Depp has NEVER impressed me in all these years.  I hated him in every
show and movie he was ever in (and that included Edward Scissorhands,
Platoon and 21 Jump Street) until now.  This time he was right on the money.
 He stole the show and was by far the star over Orlando Bloom and Geoffery
Rush.  His character was colorful and was a throwback to the swashbuckling
of guys like Douglas Fairbanks, Burt Lancaster and Errol Flynn.  His
costuming was fantastic, but the other characters' attire was great as well.
 Whoever picked out the outfits for this movie did a great
job.Equally great was the cinematography.  It isn't easy to capture much of the
scenery the way they did.  The shots of the ocean and the islands were
beautiful.  I was reminded of my trips to Hawai'i and Catalina.  Great
wideangle shots.I was also very impressed with the action.  The movie never drags despite
its long running time of over 2 hours.  There are many fencing scenes and I
enjoyed every one.  Somehow they manage to make the movie very
action-oriented without making it turn into a mindless action movie a la
Stallone/Schwarzenegger.  The movie is safe for the entire family despite
its rating.  My girlfriend and I took her 9-year-old daughter to see the
movie and she loved it as well.If you're familiar with the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disneyland
you'll find many aspects of the ride in the film.  The movie literally
brought the ride to life with they way they recreated the ride's scenes
without being hindered by them.I highly recommend this movie, despite the bad reviews it seems to be
getting in many newspapers.  You won't be disappointed.  Take the
kids.

******
9 July 2003
10

I'll now you'll ee this movie; but see it sooner if you love Pirates! And if
you've been on the Pirates of the Caribbean ride at Disneyland too many
times, there are little tidbits to look for in the movie. (some are subtle,
some aren't.) But if you haven't, the movie is still sweet. Johnny Depp is
hilarious as Capt. Jack Sparrow, and Geoffrey Rush is perfect as Capt.
Barbossa. But besides the good performances from the actors as the pirates,
the movie is just fun to watch. There is action, adventure, romance, and a
host of small characters sure to keep you entertained. There is also a
little ghost story thrown in, excellently executed by Gore Verbinski, which
is sure to shiver yer timbers. And if none of that interests you, Keira
Knightly looks HOT!This movie is definitely what people should be watching this summer, mostly
because it has everything for adventure fans, but also because it's the only
movie this summer with pirates!10/10 

******
9 July 2003
8

I went into this movie with my hopes up, but yet a lingering doubt in the
back of my mind that it might be a little too cheezy and touchy feely
since
disney had a hand in it, and it is based on a ride at Walk Disney World,
but
i was fairly surprised.  It was much better than even i had expected.
There
were a couple of moments of cheeze, but not nearly enough to spoil the
extreme hilarity and action of this Summer hit.  And the acting by Johnny
Depp was absolutely amazing. I would say that if it wasnt his show to
steal,
he would have stolen the show.
And for those of you that are fimilar with the Pirates of the Carribean
ride
at Walt Disney, keep your eyes open to detail, because there are a couple
of
details in this movie that mimic the ride directly.  Very Amusing.
overall
10/10.  ENJOY.

******
9 July 2003
7

Pirates of the Caribbean plays out much like the ride does: wonderfully!
Although it was a bit long (over 2 hrs.) and somewhat repetitive, it was had
many comical moments and interesting characters, not to mention the flawless
acting by Johnny Depp. Very authentic, very genuine, and exactly like the beloved Disney
ride.

******
9 July 2003
10

This was a great movie.  This movie had a good story line and good special
effects. I saw this movie on opening night and we were there 1 hour(yeah 1
hour)before the show opened and we still barely got tickets.  Johnny Depp
played a great part as Captain Jack Sparrow. Orlando Bloom, who also
played
Legolas in Lord of the Rings, acted as good or even better in this movie.
This movie was full of great one-liners, too bad i only remember half of
them.  Most of the pirates in this movie were one fry short of a happy
meal
lets say.  All in all this was a great movie and i am wanting to see it
again and i cant wait until it comes out for DVD!! 

******
9 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was a delightful
movie. Just the right amount of humor and action. A very well done view of
pirate life and culture from the sailors' tales and suspicions to the
dress
and style. This movie is perfect for families, however some of the special
effects and fight scenes might be too intense and scary for children under
10.

******
9 July 2003
10

This has to be one of the best movies I've ever seen.I'm still floored by it, twelve hours later.  I honestly cannot wait to
see
it again.It's truly an epic, with perfect casting choices and an exciting plot.  I
cannot see how they could have don it better.  It was flawless.Johnny Depp was hilarious as Captain Jack Sparrow, Geoffrey Rush
chillingly
exquisite as Captain Barbossa, Orlando Bloom was the quintissential soft
Will Turner, and Keira Knightly a gorgeous and kickass Elizabeth
Swan.I definitely recommend this film to anyone and everyone.

******
9 July 2003
10

And by far the best of this year. Johnny Depp proves once again why
he is one of the best actors ever, giving a hilarious performance as Capt.
Jack Sparrow. With a great supporting cast but no one comes near Depp's
performance save for maybe his rival of Geoffery Rush but even he cannot
Blow Johnny out of the water.
I was glad to see that this lived up to my expectations, but also
and
maybe even more importantly didn't deface the name of the beloved Disney
ride like "the Country Bears" did. Of all the Pirate movies I have never
seen a more well-rounded one. It has the perfect mix of action,
superstition
and reality of a pirate life. And for fans of the ride this film will be
even funnier and much more rewarding featuring as advertized great tidbits
from the original plot-line of the attraction.Anyone looking for a change of pace from the usual summer Blockbusters I
urge you to go see this. Or for anyone who has ever been enchanted by
pirates whether by means of the ride or otherwise. 10++/10


******
9 July 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was a lot better than I expected it to be. I
thought Orlando Bloom did a good job (not great but good) Geoffrey Rush
was
an excellent bad guy. The best part of this whole movie is Johnny Depp's
performance. If you don't like pirates at least go see it for Depp.
Everything from his entrance to his fight scenes are done with this
certain
pizzazz. You can't help but feel good and smile every time he is on the
screen. He was perfect for this role and I couldn't see anyone else in it.
I
think this is the best movie of the summer but I do not recommend this for
very small children (too much violence). All in all a great movie I give
it
an 9/10. 

******
9 July 2003
8

The pirate movie to end all pirate movies.  This one has no pretentions to
be anything other than what it is: ideal summer escapism.  Get out of the
heat, and set sail with Johnny Depp (the perfect pirate!) for this
rollicking, funny, swashbuckling ride.  Geoffrey Rush is splendidly
creepy,
the film looks great, and all the players are obviously having a ball.
Who
would've thought a Disney ride could have ever turned into such an
entertaining movie??

******
9 July 2003
10

Everything was great, from acting to the costumes.  Depp gave the
performance of a lifetime.  You could see deap into the character simply
by
his eyes.  The fight scenes were wonderful. The special effects were
flawless.I recommend this film to anyone over age that being scarred is
ok.

******
9 July 2003
10

I finally know the answer to that hard question: "what is your favorite
movie?" And know i can proudly answer PIRATES OF THE CARRIBEAN!!!!!!!!!! I
have been waiting for months for this movie, being my favorite ride at
Disneyland! I just got back from the theater, opening day of course, i
couldn't wait much longer.  I love Johnny Depp and he has turned out
another
amazing original character! It was such a funny movie, i loved that they
incorporated soo much from the ride!!! I was worried that it would slack
like COUNTY BEARS. This has everything: comedy, action, adventure,
romance,
thrills....and an opened ended ending to leave the possiblities for a
rumored sequel.
Disney did a great job and deserves a pat on the back. hopefully they
willl
recieve an Oscar for the groovy special effects. I LOVED IT!!!!!! I so
want
to see it again! and Again!

******
9 July 2003
10

This was a thoroughly entertaining movie!  I couldn't wait for this movie
to
come out, and I was not disappointed.  I enjoyed Johnny Depp's
performance
as a (tipsy??) pirate, loving the eyeshadow and pirate garb. (I always
had a
thing for pirates!)  Orlando Bloom is fantastic as the love interest.
Don't
listen to Entertainment Weekly featured on todays AOL screen, this movie
was
good!  

******
9 July 2003
8

Excellent movie. this is definately on of 2003's best. For all of you
critics out there, the characters were well developed and this had a
solid
plot and moved along well as any epic journey should.For those of you
movie
lovers looking for a great entertaining installments, this is just right
for
you too. ^_^10/10For those who liked The Matrix Reloaded and thought it was one of the
best
films ever, this is almost as good!Thats right, almost as
good!

******
9 July 2003
10

This movie is definitely one of, of not, the best movie of the year.
Casting
was all perfect, with the highlight being Johnny Depp, who was terrific
as
Jack Sparrow. Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, and Keira Knightley all are
amazing also. This one has humor, action, romance, Orlando Bloom (who was
enough in and of himself to get me in the theater) and quite a few scary
moments as well. Although it was over 2 hours, I was left only wanting
more.
Definite epic, and a classic that will not be forgotten. I can't wait to
see
it again!

******
9 July 2003
10

Thrill ride of a movie with a memorable quirky performance by Johnny
Depp.
Destined to be the classic Pirate movie.  Has the same fun feel as
Indiana
Jones went it first came out.  Plenty of cannons, undead creatures,
curses,
gold coins, grappling hooks, and plenty of Johnny Depp.  An excellent
supporting cast, particularly Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of a pirate
captain
and a Royal Governor's Daughter who looks good in both a corset and
British
Navy pants.  The kids and adults loved it.  After a long dry spell,
Disney
remembers what entertainment is.

******
9 July 2003
9

This movie was extremely good. It was entertaining to the fullest.
Johnny
Depp was sensational as the pirate Jack Sparrow. The movie incorporated
all
the aspects of a goodie. It had excellent special effects, comedy,
action,
romance, drama, and suspense.  Orlando Bloom did a nice job with his role
as
did Keira Knightley.  Rush was very good as the villain as well.  All in
all
this was a very good movie.  There was not any gore... however there were
some scary sequences with skeletons that the little kids would not like.
But the scariest scenes are not even that bad.  I recommend this for all
movie lovers.  It was truly a treat and a lot of fun to
watch.8.5 out of 10

******
9 July 2003
10

I was really looking forward to this film, and I'll admit it was mostly
because I am a huge Orlando Bloom fan, but I was amazed and astounded by
the
greatness of this movie. I actually expected mediocre and got mind
blowing
amazingness. After seeing so many disappointing films lately it was great
to
see something that simply blew me off my feet.Every aspect of this film was wonderful and I can think of nothing bad
to
say. The script was well written, the plot actually worked and wasn't
just
silly, the action was fast and intense but easy to follow which I love,
the
effects were ASTOUNDING!!!! The love storyline was there but didn't take
up
much screen time which was great because that's not what the movie is,
it's
an adventure, not a romance.But the dialogue was so crisp and Jack Sparrows really made this movie
something special. Even without saying anything, just a look or hand
gesture
worked great, but his spoken words were cutting and extremely delightful.
The rest of the cast was also phenomenal, though Depp clearly sticks out
as
amazing. Bloom did great in his first real lead I've seen and was a
perfect
straight man for Depp, Knightley surprised me with her abilities and her
great screen look. The supporting cast did their job as
well.Overall I gave this movie a 10/10 because I believe it is possibly the
most
entertaining film I have EVER seen and I have seen many. The hours flew
by
and I actually wished it was longer. I have absolutely nothing bad to
say,
and I can't express enough how much I loved and enjoyed this film. I will
be
seeing it again several times.

******
9 July 2003
10

Greatest plot and story line for a pirate movie ever. I'm proud to have
pirate blood in me and think that this is a great way to depict the way i
am. I also thought that the action and computer graphics were perfect.
The
only way the movie could have been any better, is by a few scenes of
"Elizabeth Smith" nude because she is freaking gorgeous.

******
9 July 2003
8

This film is entertaining and well done. Johnny Depp is great. I think
this
is the best I have ever seen him act. He is so believable as a pirate in
this and I hope he wins an oscar. The costumes and effects are wonderful.
Stay in the theater after the credits to see the monkey
again.

******
9 July 2003
10

I have to say that I was completely blown away by all the action sequences
and the visual affects. Disney has gone back to its roots of making great
movies. Also I had never seen Johnny Depp in such a funny role. He was
great
along with the rest of the cast. 

******
9 July 2003
10

Unlike some reviewers, I actually watched the movie and saw that it was
the
Black PEARL it was about (not JADE), and that Elizabeth Swann (Knightley)
was NEVER the beloved of Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp), but of Will Turner
(Bloom). Inspired by the carefree and fun-loving nature of a pirate at
rest,
'Pirates' has excellent comedy throughout the movie that accompanies the
wonderful action sequences to roll it on with a great pace that always
keeps
the watcher happy and enjoying the experience with a smile and a laugh.
There is, however, no sparing of the viewer from fights of many types and
on
many venues. The action is inventive, the lines are memorable, and yes,
Captain Jack Sparrow makes all of the other actors dance a great dance
around his magnificent performance. A movie to see on the big screen, and
to
own as well. One of the top movies released this year, and it's been a
good
year for movies.

******
9 July 2003
8

i just saw the movie and even though i had no intention of seeing it in the
first place i got to say it wasn't that bad. I'm not usually into big pirate
adventure back in the day kind of movies but this was pretty good.  The
fighting scenes are pretty decent and may i compliment Johnny Depp on an
excellent performance. I enjoyed Johnnys portrayal of Captain Sparrow, it
was tight. In all i'd say the movie is worth seein.

******
9 July 2003
10

Thrill ride of a movie with a memorable quirky performance by Johnny
Depp.
Destined to be the classic Pirate movie.  Has the same fun feel as
Indiana
Jones went it first came out.  Plenty of cannons, undead creatures,
curses,
gold coins, grappling hooks, and plenty of Johnny Depp.  An excellent
supporting cast, particularly Geoffrey Rush's portrayal of a pirate
captain
and a Royal Governor's Daughter who looks good in both a corset and
British
Navy pants.  The kids and adults loved it.  After a long dry spell,
Disney
remembers what entertainment is.

******
9 July 2003
10

I was shocked. A movie that was actually far better than I was expecting.
Great acting. Awesome (subtle) effects. Great pacing. Good
story.Shoulda known just from the scene where Depp "sailed" into
town.

******
8 July 2003
8

That's right, "Pirates" manages to be an epic, entertaining movie on all
levels. I was in shock at how good the movie actually turned out to be. It
has all the formulas for success: a great cast (Depp is perfect, and
everybody else is more than up to par.), fantastic visuals (with help from
ILM), and a great story. Being the first Walt Disney movie (under the Disney
banner) to be given a PG-13 rating, I was surprised at how violent the movie
was. While it is nowhere near an 'R' rating, definately not a PG rating
either. Parents, think twice before bringing the younger
ones.I can't think of too many complaints. Humor and action were well-balanced. I
suppose some more sword-fighting would've been nice, but a minor gripe with
an otherwise fantastic action-adventure. Compared to recent summer movies
that weren't really all that good (Terminator 3, Matrix Reloaded, Hulk), it
was nice to see another movie that, while no X2: X-Men United, manages to
blow you out of the water! Hopefully, it will equally share the wealth with
LXG (another great movie) when both open this week!FINAL SCORE: 7.5 out of 10 (Great action-adventure will blow you out of the
water!)

******
6 July 2003
10

Good pirate movies are impossible to find, so go see this one right away.
You'll be startled to discover how well Depp can bring an entertaining
pirate to life, dazzled by the special effects, and love the carefully
crafted script.   This Disney movie is one both kids and adults will
watch
for generations to come.  Long Live Captain Jack!

******
4 July 2003
10

(May contain spoilers)I wasn't quite sure what to expect of this movie. It could be a really
great
movie with an interesting plot and action scenes, OR it could be a
run-of-the-mill pirate movie whose main claim to fame was Johnny Depp,
Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush.It was indeed a really great movie with a surprisingly believable plot,
understandable characters, superb special effects, and very good acting
by
the main (and not so main) actors.Orlando Bloom as pirate's son blacksmith Will Turner, Geoffrey Rush as
evil
Captain Barbossa, and Keira Knightley as governor's daughter/Will's
girlfriend, performed admirably in my mind. Mackenzie Crook as the
wooden-eyed pirate on the Black Pearl provided comic relief, and my
mother
was surprised that the movie was as humorous as it was. (Johnny Depp's
funny
little hand movements entertained me to no end. Then again, I'm me, so
don't
take my opinion for it.) But the BIG accolades for acting should go to
Johnny Depp, as the rakish, dishonest, cool-headed and surprisingly sexy
in
that eyeliner, (Captain) Jack Sparrow. It is hard for me to describe the
full extent of his acting, but let me tell you, HE DID GOOD. See the
movie.
See the movie just for Johnny Depp if for no other reason.The creepy cursed-pirates-in-moonlight may disturb younger audience
members,
but the effects that made them can be commended by many. The skeletons'
torn
clothes; empty, rotted eyes and skin-peeling skulls are especially freaky
and appreciable in the scene where they attack the commodore's ship from
underwater.I enjoyed this movie much more than I expected and give it a 10/10.


******
4 September 2012
10
As I go back and watch Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl, I find the viewing experience just as much fun as the first time
I saw the film in theaters. I also find the film more and more
ridiculous.When I first saw the film I was 13 years old, and I was just starting
to realize that I wanted to be in the filmmaking business. Where films
like American Beauty, Signs, and the films of Kevin Smith and Mel
Brooks, really influenced me in the types of stories I wanted to tell,
the original Pirates of the Caribbean really influenced the type of
colorful characters I wanted to explore with my stories. In particular,
and I'm sure to no surprise, Johnny Depp's performance as Captain Jack
Sparrow dazzled me (for the record, and for no particular reason, the
other performance that significantly effected me in my life was Heath
Ledger's as The Joker). I can remember imitating him for a long time,
something that caused much frustration for my parents I'm sure. And
also probably contributed to my unpopularity in high school. But I
didn't care, I loved the film and the performance, and it once again
helped solidify my certainty in wanting to write movies for a living
(now that I think about it, this might have been the aspect that
frustrated my parents the most.)At some points the movie has a complicated plot and can also be quite
long. By listening to the commentary of the film, the director even
mentions at one point, that at that particular moment in the film (when
Captain Sparrow and Elizabeth are stranded on the beach) the audience
has all the information they need to end the story. Yet the film will
continue for another 40 minutes. The film is flawed, as with ALL films
I think. But with the eclectic characters, the overall plot of pirates
and treasure, and the fact that it is just a fun ride, what's there not
to love about this film?When I look back now, I have the same feelings I would image a grown up
viewer of films like E.T., Goonies, Star Wars, or Raiders of the Lost
Ark might feel. When you go back and watch the movies from your own
childhood you are aware of the dated effects and sometimes unbelievable
sequences, but you also are reminded of the magical feelings that you
felt upon first viewing those images. Now, I do not mean to compare
E.T., Goonies, Star Wars, or Raiders of the Lost Ark to POTC, but the
feelings for me are similar. Classics are in a way defined by the
generation in which they were released. Huge amounts of people saw
E.T., Goonies, Star Wars, and Raiders, and some have now deemed them
classics of their time. And if you don't want to call POTC a classic of
a more recent generation that's fine, for the record I'm not
particularly calling it that. But I do think that this movie, whether
we like it or not, will be around for a long time. And well deserved.

******
17 February 2012
3
Despite the phenomenal popularity of the (thus far) four installments
of the "Pirates of the Caribbean (POC)" cinematic franchise, I've found
it to be a monumental disappointment. Being such a fan of the original
Disneyland ride ever since it first debuted back in 1967 (I once got
off the ride and got right back in line for it seven times in a row),
I can't tell you how eager and excited I was to run out and see the
first POC installment, "Curse of the Black Pearl," way back in 2003
especially since it starred one of my favorite cinematic actors, Johnny
Depp. Oh how tragic to experience my initial eagerness and excitement
quickly fade into bitter disappointment and frustration! What was
immediately apparent to me was the almost complete disconnect between
the vision and experience created by the ride and the vision now being
projected up on the big screen. With all of its extravagant
cinematography and special effects and over-the-top and even ridiculous
characterizations of characters who never appeared in the ride, the
film just didn't have the same creepy excitement and fantasy-world fun
generated by the ride.And these serious deficiencies have persisted throughout all three of
the sequels. In particular, Johnny Depp's character of Jack Sparrow is
just too fey, effete and just plain silly, Orlando Bloom (whom I
despise) is too much of what he always is in every movie he's in  an
inconsequential "pretty boy" that inspires absolutely no excitement or
interest and Keira Knightly, a "pretty bit of fluff" who was "force
fed" into the POC cinematic franchise purely out of political
correctness, i.e., "we (the writers and producers of the POC films)
must make sure that the world of the pirate which has been
traditionally portrayed as all male is properly "updated" in our
productions to be politically correct in including at least one woman
main character..." Yes, there are the historical accounts of at least
two very prominent women pirates, Anne Bonney and Mary Read, but I'm
sure they didn't look or act anything like Keira Knightley's character
 and she certainly was never even hinted at in the original Disneyland
ride As a result, she is completely out of place and really detracts
and distracts from the plot lines of all of the POC installments. She
doesn't even work successfully as a "love interest" for Orlando Bloom
or Johnny Depp as Olivia de Havilland did with Errol Flynn in "Captain
Blood" or Maureen O'Hara did with EF and Anthony Quinn in "Against All
Flags" since her (Knightley's) character suffers the confused split
personality of being that of a butch female swashbuckler (completely
unbelievable and stupid!) and a sexy feminine dish (much more
likely)....Out of a real dedication to my affection for the original ride, despite
my bitter disappointment with the first installment, I've forced myself
to see every one of the sequels hoping against hope that "things would
get better," i.e. the films would get closer to the look and spirit of
the ride  and that Orlando Bloom and/or Keira Knightley would be
killed off or otherwise just disappear! Praise be to Providence that
this actually did come to pass in the third sequel  BUT it's too
little too late and I'm still left with the feeling of a lover who has
watched the "perfect woman of his dreams" become the "the nightmare hag
from hell"

******
3 January 2010
7
Johnny Depp as some kind of transvestite, in a swinging, swordfighting
fey-quest over the high seas of The Caribbean, with Orlando Bloom as
his blacksmith girlfriend, and Geoffrey Rush as a grumpy old man in a
Halloween pirate costume. Keira Knightley's square man-jaw causes
untold distraction; Jonathan Pryce gads about in a wig slightly smaller
than Dee Snider's hair during the Stay Hungry tour, and Jack Davenport
tries to take it all seriously, for which I'm sure everyone laughed at
him behind his back.PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL is as
entertaining as it is ambitious, as rollicking as it is ridiculous, as
boyish-action-movie as it is gender-bendingly-ambiguous.Supposedly based on the boring Disneyland boat ride of the same name -
without all the gender bending - if anyone ever has this much fun on
that dank, irritating boat ride, I'll eat my triangular hat. Somehow,
Disney's accursed homogenizing hand could not stultify this film's pure
adrenalin bumrush.Depp is Captain Jack Sparrow, who rocketed out of left field with his
mascara on overdrive and his personality on sideways; he alone imbues
this movie with its unique charm. For some reason, his aggressive
effeteness lends an authenticity to the swashbuckling that none of the
other "Halloween pirate" performances can. His drunken, insouciant
braggadocio drives the film like a 1st rate Ship-of-the-line, beating
to windward, guns blazing (and I do mean 'blazing').Matter of fact, there were secret talks held with the Oxford English
Dictionary on whether to replace Anthony Hopkins's picture with Depp's,
next to the meaning of the word "fey." Filmed in the Caribbean (St.
Vincent and the Windward Islands of the Grenadines), PIRATES somehow
avoids looking anything like the Caribbean. Must be that homogenizing
Disney touch.Geoffrey Rush is aye-me-hearties Captain Barbossa who stole Sparrow's
ship, the Black Pearl, which Sparrow spends the whole movie trying to
steal back.Keira Knightley is Elizabeth Swann, daughter to the Governor (Jonathan
Pryce), betrothed to a stoic British Commodore (Jack Davenport), but in
love with Jack's girlfriend, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom).Director Gore Verbinski frames Knightley's opening shot from an angle
that makes her look busty, rather than her sad reality of being flatter
than the Earth Before Columbus.Her pancake ironing board pecs are probably the reason that with all
the kidnapping she undergoes by pirates, not one of them thinks to drag
her into the hold and rape her - they must think she's a skinny boy.
And since none of them are Catholic priests, she's not considered
sexual property.It looks very eerie cinematically, but with all those holes in the
sails, how does the Black Pearl ever sail? Oh, that's right, she's
supernatural. Then why does she "sail" at all? Why engage in a "chase"
to "catch up" to the Commodore's ship? Why not just appear alongside in
one fell swoop? For once, the work of four writers looks justified (Ted Elliott, Terry
Rossio, Stuart Beattie, Jay Wolpert) with the wealth of ideas on
screen. Bold, brash, criminal adventure, involving Aztec blood amulets,
hidden treasure, lots of yo-ho-ho barrels of rum, double-crosses and
triple-crosses (Sparrow: "Me? I'm dishonest. And a dishonest man you
can always trust to be dishonest. Honestly") and fencing the likes of
which we haven't seen since Basil Rathbone and Errol Flynn (which does
get tiresome when everyone is fencing for no reason, i.e. if you can't
kill each other by fencing - due to being supernatural beings - why
bother?) Bouncy-bouncy music by Hans Zimmer, moving us like the shifting deck of
a schooner: coy, ominous, frolicsome, and rope-swinging-across-chasms
epic, transporting us out into the salty breeze and briny seas - or at
least to a water tank in San Francisco.I'm sure the PIRATES movie has made the Disney ride infinitely more
popular - though no less boring.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).

******
7 December 2009
4
Johnny Depp is in this movie. He wears a cool hat and swaggers about
like a drunken bohemian on the loose in a boarding school. I could
watch him for hours.There's other stuff in this movie. Orlando Bloom possibly plays the
hero, but he's about as boring as he's been in every other movie he's
pretended to act in. Keira Knightley fails to fill out her dress, but
that's okay because she's cute too. Geoffrey Rush plays another retired
rock star, and between him and Depp the movie is nearly watchable.I stayed awake through this movie the first time. The second time, not
so much. The third time, I'm not sure. I intentionally turned it on a
fourth time while I was on a trans-Atlantic flight and needed to sleep.
The plot is kind of unintelligible, with characters escaping and
getting captured and being held in prisons and escaping again every
five minutes or so, and no one ever bothers to clear up which ship
they're on at any given moment. It's a little too lead-footed to really
be swashbuckling.But anyway, it's got Johnny Depp. He's cool, right? He does stuff in
this movie, so that must mean something. I'm not sure what, though.

******
2 February 2009
10
The theme of pirates is a very common one in movie-making. There hasn't
been a high enough level of mathematics invented yet to number the
pirate cartoons made. Several of the 'immortal' classics such as
'Treasure Island' are about pirates. And of course, Hollywood has it's
share in the pirate stories: 'Cutthroat Island' (I don't know why it
flopped), 'Treasure Island', and variants have all graced or disgraced
our screens for decades. And then this...I truly think that pirate movies aren't going to get better than POTC.
The plot is original, surprising, and impossibly dynamic, the humor
fresh and unforced, the filming absolutely stunning, and the acting
thorough and enjoyable. Watching Jack Sparrow (by the way, the entire
image of Jack Sparrow was left up to Johnny Depp. I can't imagine how
it could've turned out better) clamber, sway, and in extreme cases fall
through trembling holds, cages, and rigging was something that I know I
will look back upon in about twenty years with just as much relish as I
do now. The brilliant dynamic created by the sarcastic, irreverent
Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) and the uber-eccentric, hilarious, infinitely
scheming Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is something that cannot accurately
be described by anyone on this earth. Add to that some semi-peripheral
roles that only enhance the humor and action, and you get a
masterpiece.The sets were filmed on location using real ships (well... 2/3 real
ships), real ocean, real islands, and a specially constructed real
fort, giving this movie an authenticity that serves to endear it even
more.There is something in this movie that will appeal to anyone: action
lovers, wisecracks, the romantic souls, those that like to tickle their
nerves with semi-scary images, the thinkers, ANYONE. Should you watch
this movie? Of course! And bring the kids along too... the skeletons
and such, they're not even really scary. The whole movie is almost like
a story, in fact. A very fast-paced, engrossing, exciting, and profound
story.

******
6 December 2008
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) is
without a doubt the best pirate movie I have ever seen. The tale begins
when Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) discovered a pirate medallion
around the neck of a young boy who washes up from a wrecked merchant
ship. She has no idea that it is really a missing piece of Cortez's
cursed Aztec gold, stolen by the crew of the Black Pearl. The pirate
crew, commanded by Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) needs the last
piece and the "blood to be repaid" to lift the curse set on them when
they removed the gold. In attempts to gain back this cursed treasure,
the crew runs into the captive, Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), who
was marooned by Barbossa and left for dead. Once Elizabeth was taken
capture by the cursed crewmen of the Black Pearl, Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom) sets free Jack Sparrow to help him locate the Black Pearl and
rescue her. The cast is perfectly chosen and interacts with each other as if they
had been working together on this film over many years. Johnny Depp
plays a selfish pirate who is constantly calculating ways to manipulate
others into helping him gain what he desires. His phenomenal acting was
not only cohesive to piracy, but also added a comedic aspect to the
film. He added a sense of comic relief to a typical adventure film by
use of sarcasm, wordplay, and gesturing to make the scene humorous
rather than somber. My particular favorite quote that depicts his
wordplay is, "Me, I'm dishonest. And a dishonest man you can always
trust to be dishonest. Honestly, it's the honest ones you have to watch
out for because you never know when they're going to do something
incredibly stupid." He uses the wordplay to, it seems, confuse the
other character into believing him to be truthful. After viewing the
film, I was utterly convinced that the cast is a medley of pirates all
working for or against each other to gain what each of them secretly
desired. It is the audience's task to figure out which of the
characters can be trusted and which ones have dishonorable ulterior
motives. In terms of cinematography, the film utilizes the aspects of lighting
to highlight the effects of the curse on the pirates and to show the
authenticity of the time period. As Barbossa, Geoffrey Rush's
character, states, "The moonlight shows us for what we really are. We
are not among the living' and so we cannot die, but neither are we
dead." Lighting is a very important aspect of the entire movie because
it shows the effect of the curse in action. The crewmen were forbidden
to remove the gold from the chest, but they did so regardless of the
warning and became cursed by the heathen Gods. Throughout the rest of
the movie, the lighting is either candle light or natural lighting
because of the setting. During the night scenes, there is emphasis on
moonlight, when the pirate crew is shown, or there is use of candle
light indoors. Whichever the case may be, lighting plays a very
important role in the film. The costume designs for each character were carefully chosen and
created to match each and every role. Some characters even wore colored
contacts to make their eyes appear yellow or discolored, which shows
how their life at sea has affected their appearances. Each pirate was
made up to look unkempt and terrifying to show how pirates would not
have the same luxuries as the upper classes. Elizabeth's character was
cleaner in appearance and wore a more elaborate dress than those of the
pirates.This film is full of symbolism and historical backgrounds such as the
Black Pearl and the formation of the East India Trading Company. The
East India Trading Company was against piracy and all for taxing
shipping ports to gain profit from anyone sailing the seas. The Black
Pearl, according to Captain Jack Sparrow, symbolizes freedom and his
ability to sail the seas without feeling confined to any order or law.
A ship has many different parts, but when they are as a whole, they
form a liberating method of transportation, which actually becomes a
way of life. Piracy becomes more of a culture than a history of
rebellious sailors. Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is the most
accurate depiction of historical piracy that has ever been shown in any
film. It shows the nature of piracy at its finest and at its worst
while adding a mythological twist to it. The cast, costumes, lighting,
symbols and plot all come together to create this fantastic movie about
pirates and fighting for that in which they believe. I highly recommend
seeing Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl.

******
15 September 2008
6
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl was the surprise
success story of 2003. Pirate films have not fared too well on screen
over the past 30 years or so. It was a film that took its inspiration
from a theme park ride (which is pretty crass self-promotion if you
really think about it). And the star was Johnny Depp, an actor who, up
until that point had avoided big-budget extravaganzas in favour of
edgier material. In spite of the odds stacked against it, it made a
splash at the box-office and was quickly hailed as a modern classic.I've always felt the Pirates of the Caribbean films are rather
overrated. Pt 1 has an easy appeal and is not an unlikable film. But
its not quite the barnstorming swashbuckler that people make it out to
be. The sequels only upped the scale and wound up being capsized by it.
Still, at least Pt 1 is straightforward. Its no classic, but at least
you can keep track of the story. Something that could not be said for
the sequels.I think with POTC, Disney were trying to make a pirate equivalent of
The Princess Bride. An adventure story on the one hand, with a whole
level of knowing humour on the other. Where it takes all the expected
clichés and wittily subverts them. When this is done right, you can
produce a very entertaining experience. TPB is the undisputed champion
in the field. And the same was done with Westerns in the excellent and
very underrated TV series The Adventures of Brisco County Jr.But POTC is not on they're level. It feels amusing more than it feels
funny. And its also much too long. Clocking in at just over two hours,
it lacks the snappy pace and perfect running times of the above
examples. Something that only got worse as the sequels went on. Still,
Pt 1 does have its moments. The jokey tone of the film is established
as soon as we get our first glimpse of Johnny Depp as Captain Jack
Sparrow.Its a very funny scene. Jack is standing on the crow's nest of his
ship, purposefully looking out to sea. Then the camera pulls back to
reveal that's all that's left of it. And just as the ship is about to
go under, Jack casually steps off onto the dock of the nearest port.
Its a scene that makes you think this is going to do for the pirate
genre what The Princess Bride did for fairy tales. Its all the more
disappointing then that the best gag in the film comes right at the
beginning.Nothing else in the movie quite matches the hilarity of that scene. It
so perfectly captures the balance between straight-faced adventuring
and tongue-in-cheek humour. But nowhere else in POTC does it achieve
the same level of success. Gore Verbinski directs it all with
high-octane energy, throwing in everything you'd expect. Swordfights,
battles, romance.But the plot has a thinness that the film never really escapes from. I
think the problem may be that since its genesis is in a theme park
ride, the writers have had to construct a scenario while working within
very narrow margins. Certainly it never opens itself out to the
possibilities or sharp deconstructions that come with the genre. Not
like William Goldman and Rob Reiner's treatment of The Princess Bride.Where the film is more successful is in its casting. And Pirates of the
Caribbean has a fine one. Johnny Depp expectedly rises to the occasion,
putting his own unique stamp on the part. There has never been a pirate
like Captain Jack Sparrow. And there never will be again. Depp's
inspiration for the part was Keith Richards of The Rolling Stones
because he thought pirates were the rock stars of the high seas. With a
Keith Richards slur, a drunken swagger, and a fey flailing of his
hands, Depp cuts and thrusts away with the entire movie.Orlando Bloom, in his first role away from The Lord of the Rings does
just fine as Will Turner, the simple blacksmith out to rescue his lady
love. Equally up to the action and dramatic scenes, this young man is
one of Hollywood's rising stars. The exquisitely radiant Keira
Knightley is wonderful as the spirited Elizabeth Swann. She brings a
refreshing injection of modernity to the old cliché of the damsel in
distress. And you mustn't miss Geoffrey Rush as the vile Captain
Barbossa. He throws himself into the part with real theatrical gusto. A
villain you just love to hate.Aside from Johnny Depp's performance, what makes POTC rather unique
among the genre is the inclusion of a fantastical element. Barbossa's
crew of pirates are under a curse, and are really the undead. Like the
pirate genre has been crossbred with The Evil Dead. Gives a whole new
meaning to skeleton crew! Its never quite as scary as it should be
(this is a Disney film after all), but its a nice spark of originality
in an otherwise very traditional movie. The CGI effects are really
excellent here, even if such effects do seem somewhat out of place in a
pirate movie.The script thrusts and parries its way to a surprisingly low-key
ending. What should have been an epic battle at the end feels
disappointingly lacklustre. And sadly, I'm afraid that is much of the
problem with Pirates of the Caribbean. It never really goes for it with
full wind in its sails. Its a pleasant film when its on, but it never
wittily deconstructs itself like you imagine the writers intended. Its
better then its sequels, but where it should have been a grand, high
seas adventure, it sadly never gets out of the harbour.

******
30 May 2007
9
Somewhere inside this movie is a rather pedestrian summer swashbuckler
about two strait-laced earnest lovers fighting for happiness. But with
a bunch of talented screenwriters and the movie's real star, Johnny
Depp in a now-legendary performance as lovable scoundrel Captain Jack
Sparrow, this movie became something else. We had the strait-laced
lovers, properly yearning from a distance. Then--wow--Captain Jack, and
then BOOM! The Undead! Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa putting in a
performance almost as wonderful as Depp's, purring his way through the
delightful, witty dialogue. Jack Davenport putting in an oddly
sympathetic performance as the requisite Navy stuffed-shirt (who became
a full-blown heartthrob in the sequel). Kiera Knightley in the role
that made her famous as the Governor's pretty young daughter, and
Orlando Bloom, who hadn't yet learned how to act yet was fine as the
earnest, smitten, puppyish, chivalrous, thoroughly decent and rather
square Will Turner.Like all movies, this has a few problems, from Bloom's stiff acting to
the end battle, which goes on repetitively for about ten minutes too
long; but Captain Jack and Barbossa are always somewhere ready to save
the day. The subsequent sequels (which I love) can never be exactly the
same as this one; Captain Jack wasn't as astonishing the second time
around and Elizabeth became rapidly more clichéd as an action chick.
The first Pirates of the Caribbean movie has become bigger and yet more
legendary in the light of its sequels; and while the "Good or not?"
argument will go on for many years concerning them, this first movie
will always have a place in every heart that secretly enjoys a pirate
tale.

******
18 February 2007
7
In Bermuda circa 1700, Port Royal comes under attack from a gang of
vicious pirates led by Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush). During the attack,
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), the feisty young daughter of the
Governor (Jonathan Pryce), is kidnapped by the pirates. Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom), a blacksmith (and pirate's son) who is in love with
Elizabeth, enlists the help of shifty pirate "Captain" Jack Sparrow
(Johnny Depp), whose ship, "The Black Pearl", had been lost to Barbossa
during a mutiny. However, Barbossa's men are no longer mere pirates -
instead, they have been transformed into undead zombie pirates who need
the blood of Will (or, so they think, Elizabeth) to break the curse.The main reason why "Pirates of the Caribbean" was so popular is
simple. Take away Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley, the action, the
effects, everything - even Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush - and consider
the simple fact that no one expected this film to be any good. It was
based on a Disney theme park ride (a formula that had been unsuccessful
before, see "The Country Bears") and had, to be frank, a ridiculous
plot. This movie seemed likely to die a quick death at the box office,
get torn apart by critics, and be forgotten. However, the film went on
to be an astonishing box-office hit and pop culture phenomenon. In the
aftermath of the mediocre sequel it's easy to forget how refreshing the
movie seemed when it first came out - full of rousing action, great
special effects, stirring music, a wonderfully written script, and of
course brilliantly over-the-top performances by Depp and Rush.Really, this movie does not bear in-depth analysis. There aren't any
themes running through it; it's just a fun, unpretentious action film.
Or at least it tries to be; the movie is about twenty minutes too long,
with a climax that drags on forever (and seems arbitrary in light of
the sequel). But that's a fairly minor complaint, when the 120 minutes
before it were so entertaining.Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow is a wonderfully entertaining character. In
the second movie, he will have worn out his welcome (at least for this
reviewer), but here he's amazing. Campy, drunken, profane, and
ceaselessly witty, it's easy to see why Jack has become such a
immensely popular character. While ostensibly based on Keith Richards,
Jack reminds me at least of Eli Wallach's Tuco from "The Good, the Bad
and the Ugly" - a lovable, double-crossing rogue who is turns likable
and hate-able. Depp gives simply a marvelous performance, and
transforms a character who, on paper, was likely not much into
something wonderful.Geoffrey Rush, one of my favorite living actors, is a perfect
counterpart as Barbossa. Rush, who can be a restrained and subtle
performer ("Shine", "Elizabeth"), goes way over-the-top here. But in a
film like this - and especially with someone like Depp's Sparrow as
your rival - over-the-top is the only way to go, and Rush executes his
role with relish. Barbossa is a surprisingly sympathetic character; one
feels for his anguish at the curse, even though he is ostensibly a
villain, and Rush should get credit for being able to convey this as
well.The histrionic sparring of the two above actors does, unfortunately,
overshadow most of the supporting cast. Orlando Bloom and Keira
Knightley are just not good actors, I'm sorry to say, but they are able
to handle their parts with admirable aplomb - even though they are
blown off the screen by Depp and Rush. Jack Davenport, as Elizabeth's
suitor Norrington, and Jonathan Pryce, as Governor Swann, give good,
restrained performances that relegate them to the background. Among the
rest of the supporting cast, Kevin McNalty as Gibbs, the
sailor-turned-pirate and Jack's chief sidekick, is most memorable,
bringing dignity and humor to his smallish role.The action sequences are well-done, and the special effects, while not
realistic, are frighteningly convincing (unlike the ridiculously
overdone effects in "Dead Man's Chest"). Elizabeth's discovery of just
what Barbossa's pirates are is effectively done - it seems over-the-top
but it works, helped immeasurably by Rush. The action scenes -
particularly the climactic sword-fight between Jack and Barbossa -
sometimes go on for too long, but most of them are so enthralling that
you won't notice. The film doesn't lack for humor either, mostly
through Sparrow's character.Though a bit too long and contrived, "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a
fun, fun action movie that is worth watching again and again. It's easy
to see why it was such a successful film, and this one (if not the
sequels) will certainly be watched for years to come.7/10

******
19 January 2007
7
Pirates of the Caribbean is a nice 100-minute movie with an extra hour
of inane plot twists thrown in - who edited this thing? Johnny Depp's
performance is the one thing that makes this movie enjoyable
throughout. Without Depp, Pirates is just another bad summer
block-buster movie with too little plot and too much special effects
trying to cover it up. I'm a bit amazed that the Oscars saw fit to
nominate his performance - one of the boldest, riskiest acting jobs
ever allowed in a summer release. I know all the accolades went to Sean
Penn's overdone performance in Mystic River. But, I'd give the nod to
Depp for single-handedly pulling this movie into the enjoyable
category.Afterword: Pirates II has come out, and the first hour is abysmal. Depp
seems bored, and there's even less of a story than in Crrse of the
Black Pearl. Barely worth renting.

******
14 August 2006
5
The film it's so good, but the story it's the same than one computer
game called "Monkey Island", same story, same characters... Disney
don't have new thinks?The first time I see the film I put a 10 for this film, it's very good,
the story, the Capitan Sparrow do so good... but when I see the film
for the second time I begin to remember some characters and Barbossa
for example it's Capitan Lechuck in the game, Jack Sparrow it's
Guybrush Threepwood. Capitan Lechuck it's the perfect pirate and it's a
ghost, and Guybrush was an awkward teenager whose sole ambition in life
was to be a pirate.I don't know, perhaps it's only my imagination, but I found very
similarities.

******
19 July 2006
7
I think this movie is basically a classic...if you look it is on the
top 250 movies on this website and it very well deserves to be!!! It
may be scary for children under the age of 12. I have seen this movie
multiple times and can't get enough of it. The part that was my
favorite was when Elizabeth Swan was trying to hide from two pirates
and soon hides in a closet, and they find her and she demands parlay.
Pirates of the Caribbean does move somewhat slow and is a bit over two
hours. But it is worth the time watching, and when i went to the movies
to see it I knew I wouldn't be wasting money on a ticket. I would call
this a family movie, so watch this while you relax with your familey.

******
18 July 2006
6
I love pirate movies. I love Erroll Flynn type Pirate movies. This was
a disappointment to me. I thought that Johnny Dep was a poor choice for
the main character. I like Johnny Dep, but the portrayal of a pirate is
a reach.... not at all believable. He seemed to soft to be a pirate,
not rugged enough. There were some good scenes, but not the ones with
Johnny Dep. If you are going to watch this movie don't expect a classic
Pirate Movie, you will be disappointed. I have no real desire to see
part two any time soon. I don't think the characters were developed
enough and it felt like the movie is probably catering to the kids and
not to adults. It had no historical value either and seemed to be done
on a limited budget. Just not as good as all the hype.

******
27 June 2006
7
At first announcement, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl sounded like a really bad idea to me. It was one of three films
announced that would be adaptations (for lack of a better word) of
rides or shows at Disneyland. The first was The Country Bears, which I
skipped and the third was The Haunted Mansion, which was none too
impressive. Pirates of the Caribbean had probably the best cast,
headlined by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush, and was produced by
uber-producer Jerry Bruckheimer. I was still skeptical, but Pirates of
the Caribbean proved to be better than it's pedigree would suggest. It
is an entertaining, enjoyable romp, albeit a little overlong.Pirates of the Caribbean focuses on young Will Turner (Orlando Bloom),
a blacksmith's apprentice who has a thing for, Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightley) the daughter of the Governor of the British Caribbean colony
of Port Royal, Weatherby Swann (Jonathan Pryce). Captain Jack Sparrow
(Depp), a notorious pirate, arrives at Port Royal in search of the
Black Pearl, a pirate ship he had previously been Captain of but had
been deposed by a uprising led by the ship's first mate, Barbossa
(Rush). Sparrow is captured by the local militia when the Pearl attacks
the colony and makes off with Elizabeth. Sparrow strikes a deal with
Will to help him track down the Pearl and save Elizabeth, but the crew
of the Black Pearl are not exactly what they seem: they have stolen and
spent Aztec gold, which came complete with a curse that has turned them
into the walking dead, a fate they are attempting to reverse and
Elizabeth has the last piece of gold they need.Considering there is a dearth of good, old fashioned swashbuckling
films in Hollywood today, Pirates of the Caribbean actually manages to
be somewhat unique in the current entertainment climate. It, for the
most part, lives up to the visual style you would expect from a pirate
film, complete with elaborate sailing ships, down and dirty crew
members, plenty of swordfights and cannon battles, not to mention the
obligatory walking of the plank. However, director Gore Verbinski and
screenwriters Terry Rossio and Ted Elliot don't just deliver a standard
pirate film, but one with a nice streak of comedy to it. Most of the
humor is derived from the lead of Jack Sparrow. As portrayed by Depp,
the master of cinematic eccentricity, Sparrow is a rather unusual
pirate. Yes, he is self-serving and double-crossing, but he is also
played with such a humorous air and a light touch by Depp as to become
endearing. He also ensures that we aren't just looking at an actor
using the role of a pirate to provide the usual moustache twirling.
Jack isn't a hero, but he's not a villain either.Pirates of the Caribbean is an attractive enough film, no expense was
spared in creating an environment that fits the material and when the
action sequences kick in, they are engaging enough. However, this kind
of film is still somewhat fluffy entertainment, not exactly the deepest
of material, and Pirates of the Caribbean manages to overstay it's
welcome a bit. The film runs 143 minutes, and eventually, it starts to
feel like it. It never grinds to a complete halt, but it has no less
than three points where it would seem to be reaching a conclusion and
yet manages to keep going. This is the kind of film that needs to clock
in well under two hours, not run two and half.The rest of the cast acquits themselves well. Rush turns in a decent
performance as the villainous Barbossa, Bloom is appropriately
fresh-faced and yet defiant enough as Will and Keira Knightley manages
to blend her good looks with fire as Elizabeth. The film also boasts
some nice visual effects when the Black Pearl crew is exposed to
moonlight, when they are revealed as walking skeletons.All in all, Pirates of the Caribbean is a good, fun movie that is more
than worth checking out, just don't be surprised if you start checking
your watch a little late into the film.

******
26 June 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean is the best movie I have ever seen in my life.
There is so much action and adventure, goodness I just love it all.
Johnny Depp does a great job playing Captain Jack. Captain Jack is so
comedic yet so tough and "piraty." Orlando Bloom is so great in this
movie. Not to mention that he looks great in a pirate costume, but he
is perfect for the part he plays. He plays a sensitive yet brave young
man who tries to save his love. Kiera Knightly also does a wonderful
job playing the beautiful but slightly tom boyish girl who falls in
love with pretty boy Will. This movie has it all; romance, action
(sword fights man!), mysterious music, and awesome special effects and
costuming. I would definitely recommend this movie to anyone of any
age, it's one of those movies you just can't miss. 10+++++!

******
25 June 2006
10
I loved this movie Johnny Depp(Captain Jack Sparrow) and Orlando
Bloom(Will Turner) made a great team and the chemistry between them was
great! Elizabeth Swann(Keira Knightly) was the character I wish I was I
mean she got to be in a movie with two amazing actors. Wow! If you are
in the mood for romance, action, adventure, and a whole bunch of other
types of movies, see this movie, it is wonderful! This movie was by far
the best movie I have seen in a very, very long time. Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl has a lot of great qualities it
is an excellent film for anyone, OK maybe anyone over 13 there is a bit
of violence but other than that it is a great movie. where there is a
violent movie teens will gather!

******
20 June 2006
10
This movie is filled with action and pirates. It has all this while
also throwing in a major love story and a little humor, but also ties
it all together into a exciting adventure about an ancient curse and
what the character's must do. Johnny Depp rules the screen with his
amazing impressions on his character's. He plays an very unruly,
strange pirate. But this adds to the interest of the movie, and the
humor. It's a movie one can watch again and again and still enjoy.
Orlando Bloom's good looks and skills, Johnny's humor, and Kiera
Knightley's tremendous performance, a perfect trio for a action packed
swashbuckling pirate film. Who wouldn't want to see this movie?

******
19 June 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean is in fact, in my opinion the best film Disney
has come out with so far. I went to the movies twice to see this when
it came out. I have to tell you there is not one second in this film
that is not either good, entertaining or fascinating! I really like
Johnny Depp's character (Captain Jack Sparrow), he's really good with
doing that character. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightly are also good,
as well as Geoffery Rush. Anyway, this movie is great...actually it's
terrific! If you have not yet seen it, go to the store, buy this movie
and then sent down and watch it. I can guarantee you will not regret
it! Trust me, you will love this movie.

******
18 June 2006
10
This was a great movie. Whoever did the casting, I compliment you.
Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom are hilarious. Also, Keira Knightley was
delightful. I loved the comical essence that Johnny Depp and Geoffery
Rush bring to their scenes together. It's an amazing movie. If you have
not seen it, you're missing out. I look forward to the sequel, though
I'm not sure how the third one will turn out. Anyway, it has a great
plot(which will remain a secret), a great cast(Johnny Depp + Orlando
Bloom=HOT!!=D), and a wonderful performance. Jack Sparrow is
hilarious!! Props to you, Pirates actors!Aspiring young actress(I hope) and huge Johnny and Orlando fan,weescot10

******
22 October 2005
8
I enjoyed this movie. Johnny was really good as a pirate and he just
looks the part for a pirate (Especially when he isn't in the movies).
It was very funny and very good and brings pirates back into fashion.
Keeps you busy and excited throughout the whole thing. It isn't right
though that they'll make two other ones or sequels to it. I'll see them
don't get me wrong but this end is just wow though. I enjoyed watching
it. *Spoiler part* (Look away if you don't want me to ruin it) It is
about a pirate who is not afraid of meeting people who disagree with
him. He meets Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) who is a blacksmith to save
his girlfriend from another evil pirate who previously stole Johnny's
ship. They set out to find her causing havoc everywhere. And in the end
Johnny dies well not dead turns into a skeleton when fighting Barbossa
and kills him. That's it really but if I didn't make it sound that good
go see it anyway. End of review. But I'm giving it 8/10 because it's to
good. S E EY A!

******
15 October 2005
10
I loved this movie. it was surprisingly clean of bad language and full
of excitement and adventure. The plot was good and had you going the
whole way. No way could you not like this movie. But don't let your
children under 10 or 11 see it because the skeletons and sword fights
will scare them and they won't get the funny lines or the story plot.
This show is a must see.This shows keeps you on the edge of your seat
the whole time! Johnny Depp plays a perfect part as a good and bad
pirate. I loved Keira Knightly in this movie and even Orlando bloom.
They all seemed to fit together. I bet all us POTC lovers will be
wanting to see if the next two are as good!

******
16 September 2005
10
The film was a credit to the actors and directors who made the film.
the music was an awesome display of creativity and the person who wrote
it deserves great praise and acknowledgement. i think the plot was an
awesome display of creativity and understanding of how views will react
to certain situations, also the film feels real to all thoughts
watching it. also the music adds a great amount of feeling and depth to
the movie as well as giving the viewers hearing a rollacoster ride, and
making the viewer wishing they were at a live cosert listening to the
music performed live, the people who performed this amazing peace of
music also deserve as much credit as the actors who were in the film.

******
10 September 2005
10
Sheer, Unadulterated brilliance!!!!!! Depp steals the show. The story
is perfect for everyone and at the end you 'll feel like you just
walked out of the most awesome rock concert ever! Oh, and if you
weren't already, you WILL be in love with Johnny Depp! The other
characters are perfectly cast as well, especially Bloom whose
performance harks back to Errol Flynn and Kira Knightly who pulls off
the strong and surprisingly funny damsel. Geoffery Rush is the most
perfect pirate villain we've seen in forever and you just can't get
enough of he and Johnny's scenes together. The DVD also has a really
fun commentary with great insight into the writing and acting narrated
by Johnny, Gore, and the writers.

******
8 September 2005
10
This really is one of the best adventure movies of this year (possibly
of all time) but as yet another glowing review would be redundant, I
will instead focus on the score. Klaus Badelt's score is amazing. If
you don't already own the CD for this movie, buy it. Though not quite a
prodigy of Hans Zimmer, they often work together, and I know his style
has been compared to Zimmers, but Badelt's style goes beyond Zimmer's
in originality, and freshness, and the result is one of the best scores
of all time, in my opinion. I do have to say, however, that I am
disappointed to learn that Badelt will not be reprising his role as
composer in the upcoming Pirate's films, and that sadly Zimmer has
ousted him for that spot. I do not believe he will be able to do them
justice.

******
4 September 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is absolutely
incredible.I'm very aware that many of the girls (ok, most of the girls) in the
world that went to see this film probably just wanted a gander at the
lovely Orlando Bloom.... well, I must say, it was really Johnny Depp
who stole the show as Captain Jack Sparrow. His hilarious antics and
insane actions made me laugh until I nearly cried.Mr.Bloom shows a lot of promise in the future as a successful actor. As
Johnny Depp is considered the Marlon Brando of this generation, Orlando
will most likely be named the Johnny Depp of the next. He plays Will
Turner very well, starting out as a kind of awkward, geeky boy... and
slowly molds into a brave and charming young man.Keira Knightley also deserves a word of recognition. Her beauty and
talent are undeniable, and her character, Elizabeth Swann, was sweet
and independent. I admired Keira's performance and look forward to
seeing her in many more movies.Besides all the talented actors in this film... the visual effects were
fantastic, and the screenplay was witty and exciting.I Definitely Recommend THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
4 September 2005
10
though it has been a long time since the release but i have already
seen it for the seventh time. i think the movie was great and very
entertaining. i also liked johnny dept in the movie. he was looking
very cool and sexy as always.Orlando bloom and Rush was good.but i
didn't like the acting of knightley, it was the only thing i didn't
like. the story was basically good but i had to concentrate very hard
to understand every single aspect of the movie. but the reason i rated
the movie 10 out of 10 i because i thought that everybody's acting was
good, and it was done according to the situation (the acting is
supposed to be good when you have great actors like Rush and Depp).the
whole set and settings was done accordingly. but the biggest applause
goes to the pirates who did a wonderful job. they really looked like
real pirates though i haven't seen one.the animation was very good
though a little shaky. if i write too much, i might tell you guys the
whole story. but fortunately i am not gonna. see ya.

******
4 September 2005
10
this is one of my favourite movies because it has a mixture of
everything... there's action, romance, funny scenes, historical
background etc... most of all, jack sparrow couldn't have been more
perfect!!! and no one could find an actor who could do it better than
the exceptional johnny depp who loves to act bizarre characters such as
this one!! he's genial and the movie is nothing without him. but apart
of johnny depp, even Orlando bloom gave a very good performance and so
did the other actors... but jack sparrow made the movie lighter and
more enjoyable (to avoid saying funny!) hope the sequel is as superb as
this one!!

******
2 September 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean, WHAT A MOVIE!!!! Everyone should see it. The
graphics are so cool. I hope the 2nd and the 3rd are way better with
the same cast all the way through the trilogy. For those girls who just
love Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom, there's plenty of them in this
movie. The director ( Gore Verbinski )most be really pleased about his
great success on this movie. It's rated PG so those little children who
are under 12, you have to wait till film comes out on DVD before you
can see it. And Penny Rose ( costume designer )nice costumes!! A great
thanks to the producer ( Jerry Bruckheimer )who helped a great deal on
this movie. I wish I was in these great movies. I HOPE EVERYBODY WILL
SEE IT AND ENJOY IT!!!!!!!

******
5 August 2005
10
This was the best movie I have ever seen. The way they take the shots
were wonderful. The way the actors just played each roll was like they
were meant for the roll when the script was made. The first encounter
of Orlando Bloom (Will Turner) and Johnny Depp (Captin Jack Sparrow)
was brilliant how they had a conversation while one was fighting for
his life against a pirate and the other was fighting to get out of the
blacksmith shop and also to save his own life. I highly recommend this
for anyone. I don't usually like action movies. After I watched this I
fell in love with Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp so of course I had to
watch Troy and Secret Window which I also enjoyed. I LOVE ORLANDO AND
JOHNNY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
31 July 2005
10
When Pirates of the Caribbean:The Curse of the Black Pearl came out i
DID NOT want to see it at all, but my family wanted to see it so i had
to go and when the movie was over i was like O MY GOSH THAT WAS THE
BEST MOVIE EVER! i i memorized like all the words cause i have seen it
so much. It is awesome. If Johnny Depp didn't play Jack it would not
have been very good at all. He makes it funny and i don't think another
actor could make funny like he does. He is the best actor for this
movie. Alog with all the other actors and actresses in it. I can't wait
for the next one to come out because i think it will be awesome maybe
not as good as the first but i definataley think it will be really
good.

******
3 June 2005
9
This movie is really an action-packed one. Johnny Depp plays the
infamous Jack Sparrow, a pirate-gone-mad and is about the help Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom) to rescue the damsel in distress, Elizabeth
Swann (Keira Knightley) from the cursed Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey
Rush) and his group of also-cursed pirates. Jack also wants to reclaim
his ship, the Black Pearl, from Barbossa's hands. It seems simple
enough, but when you put it all together, plus CGI and a group of good
actors, you'll get a surprise at this! It might sound like any other
boring pirate movie where they try to pillage and plunder and save the
girl and stuff, but it's not.Johnny Depp really puts his heart into playing Jack Sparrow and is
really good at the bad-yet-has-a-heart kinda character. His acting is
what makes the audience laugh and leave the theatre content to have
seen Pirates of the Caribbean - The Curse of the Black Pearl. Orlando
Bloom's acting was a little off but he's young and is up and coming. I
personally preferred him playing Legolas in LOTR. Keira Knightley is
also another with off-putting acting, but at that time, she was only a
rising star, so you can't blame. Geoffrey Rush was well, a cursed
pirate so there's not much to say about him. Just that he's good with
his roles.Overall, I think what impressed me most was the CGI and the storyline,
because the acting was a little bleak. I would've given it a ten but I
figured maybe it could use a bit of work. So it's a 9/10

******
27 May 2005
9
What can be better than seeing a movie with Johnny Depp wearing makeup?
NOTHING! Seriously, what a story. The first time seeing this movie, I
felt it was too good to only receive the maximum of 3 out of 4 stars,
and I still don't see why. First of all, the acting leaves you wishing
you were in the shoes of a pirate yourself, whether you are on the good
side or the bad. Personally, this was the performance of Johnny Depp's
career, though he's had many, none were as recognizable or as fun to
imitate as Captain Jack Sparrow. The cast is superb, the action is
endless, and the comedy is more than funny. I feel this movie deserved
to at least win ONE Academy Award. As for my nine out of ten rating,
I've learned to accept the fact that 4 stars is the most and I've made
a balance. "Pirates of the Caribbean" leaves you dying to see the
second.

******
27 May 2005
10
Nowadays when I see the "Walt Disney" mark at the top of a film I think
to myself, "Oh no, another rubbishy soppy story with an ending like
ones on Barney the Dinosaur." You cannot deny it, Disney is letting us
down. Or was letting us down UNTIL the launch of "Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl".You see, POTC is nothing like the usual Disney do-gooder rubbish that
everybody finds incredibly tiring and sickening. It is comedy from the
start. And, thankfully, the soppy lines are kept to a minimum. And you
know what? They are TWENTY TIMES more effective than when they are
thrown at you all the time. For instance, when Will (Bloom) and
Elizabeth (Knightley) kiss at the end, its for the first time in the
whole film and it makes it so sweet that everybody is wiping their eyes
at the perfect love story.The casting is superb as well and I'm not just talking about the big
actors (Orlando Bloom, Johnny Depp, Kiera Knightley, Geoffrey Rush),
the less well-known actors are top-notch. Who can forget the showdown
between Jack Davenport's "Commodore Norrington" and Depp's "CAPTAIN
Jack Sparrow"? Or strange antics of Giles New and Angus Barnett's
"Murtogg" and "Mullroy". And the extras do their job perfectly.Overall, this film is well acted and extremely well directed. The Jerry
Bruckheimer effects will wow you and the comedy will have you quoting
the script for weeks to come.A must-see for all the family! P.S. The extras on the DVD especially
the Blooper Reel and the commentaries are a great source of
entertainment.

******
25 May 2005
9
Pirates of the Caribbean is an entertaining and funny swashbuckling
adventure that offers old fashioned thrills and spills . And good ones
they are too.The story is engaging and the performances are surprisingly good.
Johnny depp is mesmerising as the seemingly forever drunk jack sparrow
and Geoffry rush makes a great pantomime like villain as captain
barbosa.The film has a timeless authentic look,and speaking of visual stuff,
the cgi is amazing. In this day and age where cgi is so frequent that
we've become a bit demystified to it , the films CG zombie pirates look
fantastic.They so look real Its incredible .My only gripe with potc is the surprising lack of black people in the
movie.I mean, its called pirates of the Caribbean, not the pirates of
europe ,you know? the Caribbean is and was made up of black people and
i think that it was wrong to avoid that.Apart from that flaw though , the film is an effortlessly fun and
entertaining adventure.Who would of thought that id give a positive
review to a movie based on a disneyland ride , eh ?

******
24 February 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean is an excellent movie. It shies away from the
excessive violence, sex, and profanity so common in today's films to
present a funny and exciting adventure about pirates. It is not a
highly realistic story, but that is what gives it so much charm.Captain Jack Sparrow leads the ideal pirate life, stealing and
swindling instead of murdering. As a character, he is laid back and
scarcely ever seems serious. He also has a seemingly never-ending
supply of great lines. Jack's resourcefulness and wit are his greatest
assets, and the ego he totes around is comical as well.William Turner, blacksmith's apprentice, balances out the light-hearted
Jack. Will is intense, focused, and dedicated. He has goals and he goes
for them. Jack and Will are an amusing pair throughout the movie,
especially when Will's intensity and seriousness are shot through by
one of Jack's witty retorts.Elizabeth Swan, the beauty of the picture, is by no means helpless. She
is fearless and resourceful, witty and intelligent. Elizabeth seems to
be more of a happy medium between Jack and Will, and complements the
others quite well.The effects are great, and this prevents the movie from taking a cheesy
turn. While the accursed pirates may be a bit much for some of the
younger kids, it is still a great family movie as it is clean and
enjoyable for both kids and adults. It has action and adventure, with
an exotic aura to it. The fight scenes, especially the sword duels, are
well done.Overall, this movie earns a 10 out of 10.

******
16 February 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean; the Curse of the Black Pearl is one of a
kind. The movie is very fantastic & the staff must have worked very
hard to accomplish such a legendary film. Jack Sparrow (Depp), the poor
pirate who could have saved his own life & obtained a fortune, rushes
to save somebody else in a terrific adventure which you would never
forget. Choosing Johnny Depp for this role made the character perfect.
I believe he's the most hilarious person you might ever see & his
performance as Jack Sparrow was the most flawless & the most powerful
work.I've seen it so many times I can quote practically the whole movie
start to finish & it never gets boring, mostly because Johnny Depp is
so tremendous.It 'is' a family/kids movie & it is 'not' too scary, but
you would enjoy it anyway, & if you wouldn't, i wouldn't argue,
wouldn't call you stupid & would respect your opinion. Savvy?

******
3 February 2005
10
POTC is the best film ever made! How can it be no. 212 on the Top 250
films! It deserves to be much higher so keep voting!!!The acting is amazing apart from Orlando maybe but even he is OK. How
could anyone dislike this movie.I give two thumbs up and if anyone disagrees they haven't watched it
properly.I can't wait for the sequel and hope its as good as the first. It will
be if its the same writers. Anyone got any info on the sequel? I've
been looking all over the internet but there's nothing please post on
IMDb if you know anything! Vote 10/10 for the film now!

******
13 January 2005
10
The Black Pearl, a non-catchable ship, is legend to be "crewed by the
damned and captained by a man so evil, that Hell itself spat him back
out". Is it true, that this ghost story should be unveiled to be a
fact? Captain Jack Sparrow(Depp) and Will Turner(Bloom) go on a hunt to
catch the Black Pearl in order to save Will's love interest, Elizabeth
Swann(Knightley), whom the crew of the Pearl believe is the cure of
their immortal curse. This movie is rather interesting. Even though
Depp and Bloom are eye-candy, you can't help but love the movie. The
special effects are fairly good. I praise the caster for casting this
hilarious yet serious group. Well Done! Also, the two disc DVD set
holds a great amount of extra's! Be sure to watch the blooper reel and
Pirate's Diary! Great stuff for someone who wants to get behind the
scenes!

******
13 December 2004
10
As soon as I saw this film I knew that in the future it would be
featuring in 'ultimate action films or greatest films' etc and it did!
It was number 19 in Empires greatest films ever poll!An amazing feat considering its one year old! This film has everything - action, adventure, romance, humour, great
locations (I'm sure the caribbean has sold more holidays now!), lovable
characters. The actors cast are all perfect (even Keira!) and i cant
imagine anyone else in the roles.The film is undeniably stolen by Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow
and deservedly so - hes fantasmic! An instant character that audiences
all over the world try to recreate (without much luck!) Whatever people may say good or bad, please check this film out for
yourself!! Im sure you'l love it!

******
8 December 2004
10
This movie was fun and exciting!The script was great and the casting perfect! I was never a Johnny Depp
fan till POTC, but now I'm a fan who has sought out most of his movies,
and thought he was the absolute, perfect Capt. Jack Sparrow!I have seen it so many times, and still have heard lines I hadn't
caught before!The movie was made for Depp!!I can't wait to see POTC #2!A Def. must see! 10!Peace Out!

******
28 November 2004
9
My rating: 9/10Before the featured presentation of LotR: The Two Towers came on the
screen, a preview for Pirates of the Caribbean aired. My first thought
was 'Uggh.' I forgot about it for a few months, then read a few
critics' reviews, which praised a movie so different from what the
preview hinted at. I got interested, and decided to see what people
were raving about. Then the next day, I went and saw it again...Fun and adventurous, 'Pirates' was not at all what I expected from a
pirate movie, yet it was exactly what a pirate movie should be:
swashbuckling fun and adventure, a bit of violence, treasure, etc.
Twisting humor, romance, violence, adventure, and fantasy into a fast
and involving plot, the film keeps the audience's interest the entire
film.Johnny Depp [CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow] carries the movie, complete with
brilliantly ridiculous attire and movements reminiscent of Keith
Richards. Depp adds most of the humor to 'Pirates' with memorable
one-liners and speeches. Keira Knightley [Elizabeth Swann] played her
part quite well, too. This was the first film of hers I'd seen and
judged her performance as excellent, fitting into all the facets of her
character. Orlando Bloom [Will Turner] was watched even closer by me,
since I had recently seen his debut in the LotR trilogy. He acted up to
par and accented Depp's character. Geoffrey Rush [Captain Barbossa]
played the evil and clever 'bad guy' and brought the cunning ship
captain to life.One last aspect of this film captivated me-- the score. I can nearly
hum the entire musical score from listening to the soundtrack too many
times. The music is exciting and enthralling, pulling you into the
action scenes and softening the deep tones for the romantic ones. In
fact, that's one of the only times I've waited through the credits,
just to here that final rendition of 'He's a Pirate'. Be sure to pay
attention to the music--it will make your viewing that much more
exciting.All in all, 'Pirates' is a well-wrapped package of entertainment and
adventure that will keep you spell-bound 'til the end. Drink up me
hearties, yo ho!--

******
17 September 2004
10

The first time I saw Pirates, like most other teenage girls, I went for
Orlando Bloom. The second time I went for Johnny Depp's outrageous
character Jack Sparrow and for the incredibly complex plot twists. The
third time was for the rest of the characters. The most intriguing of
these characters is Commodor Norrington. He is in a position,
especially given that this is a Disney movie, for the audience to
despise him: he is not evil, but he is the competing love interest for
Orlando's girl. Yet Norrington is selfless, perceptive, and a strong
leader. Unlike anyone else in this movie, he is everything he claims to
be. I won't describe the plot twists here, but I will say that all of
it was unpredictable and brilliant. The staging and the music impressed
me as well, from Sparrow's majestic appearance, to the treasure cavern,
to the heartstopping final gunshot.


******
13 September 2004
10

I expected this to be a drippy movie but then I broke down and rented
it, now I own it. I laughed through it and was stunned at how similar
Orlando Bloom looks like Errol Flynn in it. I loved the tongue-in-cheek
humor. This movie is great and I hope there could be a couple of more
sequels to it with the Orlando Bloom and Johnny Depp and some of the
others. I have some great story lines for sequels to this movie. This
was humorous and was a great spoof on pirate movies. I have a full
collection of Errol Flynn movies and this gets to sit with them as one
of my favorites. Errol Flynn would have loved this movie as a man who
was supposed to have had a fantastic sense of humor. The costuming,
ships, and the special effects of changing them from men to skeletons
was a very cleverly done.


******
25 August 2004
10

The first time I saw "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black
Pearl" in theatres, in the summer of 2003, I knew that it was the first of
many viewings.  I ended up seeing it four times in theatres, and I then
acquired the DVD.  PotC is a truly great action-adventure film, perhaps the
best pirate movie ever made (although that genre hasn't faired well of
late).
Johnny Depp does an iconic turn as Jack Sparrow, the bizarre anti-hero that
captured the audience's imagination, and earned Depp an Oscar nomination (he
should have won, if you asked me).  Sparrow is a truly unique creation, and
he overshadows everything else in the film.  Doing his best to match Depp in
scenery chewing is Geoffrey Rush, playing another of his memorable villains,
Captain Barbossa.  Somewhat more subdued are Orlando Bloom, Jack Davenport,
and the stunningly beautiful Keira Knightley (in the role that put her on
the map).  Knightley is just about the only woman in the production, but she
is a great screen presence; hopefully she will have a long career ahead of
her.
My favourite scene is the dinner scene onboard the Black Pearl, where
Elizabeth sits down with Barbossa and he gives her food to eat; unable to
enjoy the food himself, Barbossa draws an absurd amount of enjoyment from
watching her eat and drink; he then follows it up with an excellent
monologue, one of the most memorable film speeches I've ever
seen.
I give "Pirates of the Caribbean" a 10/10.

******
12 July 2004
9

When we went to see this, we were unprepared. A long time Depp fan, both my
husband and I had never seen him in such a role. We didn't know that this
movie was supposed to be a comedy. Sometimes other Depp characters come
across funny but I think that is his own little "edge" when acting. He has
fun and it's contagious. Anyway, this time the character charmed us into
loving him. How can you not love this goofy pirate? The film itself was done beautifully. The stunts and special effects were
brilliant. Yes, it was a lot of fun, but then I always loved that ride at
Disneyland best anyway... I guess I'm biased. 

******
10 July 2004
9

When one sees the cover of this, they might think, oh another bad
pirate movie. But In pirates, the acting was good, the actors were
good-looking, though Keira Knightley looks MUCH better with her hair
down, the swordplay was realistic, the storyline was good, no plot
holes. Disney went out of the PG section, which is good. This movie
could be appreciated by all age groups, children will like the
swordplay, older people will like the story. Don't get turned off
because it is a Disney movie, it isn't too childish like too many of
them are. They will be very successful if they step over the PG line
more. I give it 9/10. Just hope the sequel doesn't mess up like too
many sequels do.


******
10 June 2004
9

True to the tagline, I was blown out of the water by this film; for two
reasons. I was more than a little afraid that "Pirates" would steer the
same course as "Cutthroat Island". Which ended in a major shipwrecking,
as I recall. The good part is the actors are giving everything they got. Orlando
Bloom and Keira Knightley are playing the eye catchers (blame the
scriptwriters) and Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush are clearly amusing
themselves, which works contagious on the audience. In fact, Depp's
portrayal of Jack Sparrow kinda reminds me of Mick Jagger. Same accent,
same moves. The story is the bad part of this film. In short: it drags too long. We
could have done without an hour at least. The special effect are quite
good and the sword fights are nice, but it takes the actors (especially
Depp and Rush) to keep the boat from running on the rocks.


******
31 May 2004
9

a Disney work of art! if Disney ever did make a good movie [not
animation], then this is it! Casting Johnny Depp was the smartest move
they've made yet. Follow Captain Jack Sparrow as he searches for his
lost ship, The Black Pearl, which he lost to mutiny. On his way, he
finds a young swordsmith - Will Turner, who is in love with a young
lady [the governor's daughter], who becomes prisoner on the now cursed
Black Pearl under it's new captain, Barbossa. The special effects are
amazing, the acting is superb, and the sets and costumes are wonders.
Disney obviously rolled out the big bucks to make this movie a big hit!
Interresting and fun enough for adults, great for kids.


******
18 May 2004
9

When I first heard that Disney was making a film based on the ride, "Pirates
of the Caribbean," I was excited.  This was by far my favorite ride at
Disneyland as a child.  I could just imagine the swashbuckling hero battling
the pirates and saving the fair maiden.  And sure enough, Disney delivered. 
I loved this movie.My favorite part of this movie was: an actor.  Johnny Depp.  The man is a
master.  Even with his slurred speech, matted hair, and half black/half gold
teeth, I was amazed at how sexy a character can become when Johnny Depp is
bringing him to life.  I have seen this film four times now, and every time
I sit impatiently until Johnny first appears on his sinking ship.  Then I am
glued to the screen for the rest of the film.  Now I'm not saying that the
rest of the cast wasn't good.  Kiera Knightly was absolutely beautiful, and
Orlando Bloom is as cute as he was in the Lord of the Rings trilogy.  But I
was just completely captivated by Johnny Depp in this film.  I can't think
of any other actor that could have filled the shoes of Captain Jack Sparrow
with such life and zeal.  So bravo, Johnny!  I can't wait for the sequel.Rank: 9


******
15 May 2004
9

                 I was extremely anxious to go see Pirates of the Caribbean
last year in the summer when it came out. I saw it two days after it came
out and I really liked it. In a way, I think it could be seen for all ages.
Heck, it was a very fun film with lots of funny lines by my favorite
character in the film, Jack Sparrow. The action was neatly done and for a
PG-13 film. The shooting on the ships were so cool like Master and
Commander's. Johnny Depp could've been an oscar worthy actor in it. Keira
Knightley was great to and she is really hot, indeed. Lucky Will gets her.
Ha funny stuff. Overall, this was a great film with impressive action and a
perfect comedy mixed very well into it. 8.5/10

******
6 May 2004
10

Johnny Depp the tremendous actor stars in yet another strange, yet
wondeful
film where his charactor is always wacky! He is the most exellent actor i
have ever had the privilidge to watch and admire. Johnny takes on the role
of captain jack sparrow magnifisenly, he makes the charactor totaly unique
and simply marvolous. Plus which makes things even better is that he looks
really sexy too! hehe. next to the almost normal charactors William Turner
and Elizabeth Swan, Johnny looks out of place, yet BEAUTIFUL!! This is one
of my favourite roles that Johnny depp has played aswell as he in sleepy
hollow, edward scissor hands, chocolat, once apon a time in mexico, blow,
from hell and many many more including his most recent film secret window
(which was a success!) This film is a marvel because of the true actor
that
is johnny depp

******
5 May 2004
10

This film has got it all, humour, excitement, fantasy and most of all,
Johnny Depp!
Depp deserves every credit for this film which is surely the film of
the
year. When I got the film on DVD, I watched it over and over again as it
just gets better every time.
Knightly is a fantastic actress who expresses her part in the film
amazingly. Bloom is good at his parts, not as good as the rest of the main
character's although he is great in the sword fight scene with
Depp.
Geoffrey Rush is a fairly unknown actor although he deserves to be
known
as he is a super actor who really gives the audience the feel of his part.Depp is a masterclass and really makes this film my Number 1
!!!!!!

******
28 April 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is one of the best movies i have ever watched.
First of all Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is hilarious. If he hadn't been in
this movie it probably wouldn't be as good. Secondly this move has a great
storyline and lots of action with it. Although Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)
becomes rather annoying in trying to win Elizabeth Swanns (Keira
Knightley)heart by saving her. However I was happy that at the end Will
Turner tried to help Jack Sparrow escape. Captain Barbosa (Geoffrey Rush) is
awesome in this movie. Although he looks really old in real life he is
really great in the Pirates of the Caribbean. Jack Sparrow is really great
and hilarious in this movie. He adds a lot of excitment and is a great
pirate same with Barbossa. This is with out doubt one of the best movies
ever. I hope that the second one will be just as good. 

******
28 April 2004
10

I think that Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom are excellent in the
movie.
They are both so cool as well as being fantastic actors. If you see a film
and you don't have good actors in it then it will spoil the
film.
This is proberly one of the reasons the film Pirates Of The Caribbean is
so
good.There are certain parts in the film which they both stand out amonst other
actors but I can't tell you as it will spoil the film!
The other actors are excellent as well but those two are just the best.


******
27 April 2004
10

I'm pleased with myself that I'm finally getting around to writing a
comment. I'll start off with this. This movie is more than you would
expect.
I went into the theater hoping for plenty of Orlando Bloom screen time,
thinking "It's a pirate movie, it might be interesting".One of the biggest understatements of my life.I left the theater with a newfound appreciation for Johnny Depp as an
actor.
His role and acting were superb in the film. Definitely the best
performance
of the year. Orlando Bloom, while his performance was not as good as
Depp's,
was still a great supporting actor, and has the potential to become a
bigger
star with his upcoming films. Kiera Knightly puts forth a strong
supporting
role, and does perfectly in the sole female role (not counting
Anamaria's).
And Geoffrey Rush is one of the best villains I have seen on screen in a
long time (with the exception of Gollum). He's the character you love to
hate, but feel pity for him at the same time.This is a movie I'd recommend to anybody, and all that I have encouraged
to
see it thought it better than they had hoped.

******
22 April 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was easily one of the best films of 2003.The story was brilliant, the acting was amazing and the characters were
some
of the most interesting and creative to have graced the silver
screen.It was about time a pirate movie was made that didnt disappoint. there was
action, comedy, romance...there was something for everyone....even my
step-dad liked it.Personally, i dont think that the casting could have been much better.
Geoffrey Rush and Johnny depp, two of Hollywood's most talented
actors....how could they go wrong?Johnny Depp more than deserved an Oscar nomination, although the other
nominees were equally deserving, and i think that its a shame he missed
out.
he has played so many interesting and challenging roles so well that i
think
he truely deserves one.Overall this is an amazing film that will hopefully stand the test of
time,
and in ten years time i will be able to sit down with my children and they
will enjoy it as much as i have.However, the only think that worries me about it standing the test of time
is the graphics. the speed at which technology is improving that will look
awful in a matter of years.Other than that, i give this movie an impressive 10/10


******
17 April 2004
10

Johnny Depp brought the film ALIVE!!! I thought this film was a typical
advenure shooting banging up, cutting up swas buckler. Ifn't wasn't for
Johnny Depp, this film would not have done half as good. He should have won
the best Actor award for this film, but had to lose to Sean Penn, because it
was a Clint Eastwood film, and it was a drama. This film would fit well for
all ages both kids and parents. However, the skeleton pirates look freaky
like the dead in The Lord of the Rings Part III. This film should have also
won best Make-up art for Johnny Depp. The only problem with this film was
some corny bits, and some parts that should have been added. This film was
an out of an ordinary swas buckler than Treasure Island or any other film.
The action sequences were descent, the humor was non-stoppable from Johnny
Depp, Orlando bloom was the real good guy hero, Geoffrey Rush was he
hateful, and slow thinking villain, and the girl was a real hotty and cuty!
this film is an honesty triumph over The Lord of the Rings Part III! It is
ranked among the top five best movies of the year!  

******
17 April 2004
10

This an absolutely excellent movie. It has humor and great action and is
entertaining from the very beginning to the end. Johnny Depp's acting is
fantastic. Some might say that they missed more of walking the plank in
this
movie. Well, then just remember that walking the plank is actually a quite
made up story, very much brought to life by movie's like disneys Peter
Pan.
When the pirates actually managed to take a prisoner the did a lot more
awful things then walking the plank. Torturing the people they managed to
capture was the way the pirates entertained themselves. All in all this is
just a geniously made movie, and deserves a 10 on the vote
ranking.

******
16 April 2004
9

I love this film so much!Everything is perfect - Johnny is wonderful as Jack Sparrow, Orlando is
gorgeus as the hero and alongside Keira makes the best looking and
talented
young couple in modern cinema.Gore Vebinski's direction is flawless; the music is fitting for every
scene
- a highlight is the soaring anthem for the final battle scene. And I've
not
even got onto the delightful support actors and the jaw-dropping special
effects!Above all though, there is a strong story and script, with a perfect
balance
of humour, action and romance.And the DVD is great too - very highly recommended - 10/10.

******
15 April 2004
10

It was on of the best movies i saw in 2003. It was way beyond my
imagination
when i first saw the poster. Johnny Depp was to stunning for words and so
were the others . I think Johnny Depp really deserves an award for his
great
acting skills.I loved the way the bad people were on the deck of the ship
and were scaring Elizabeth Swann. My favorite line of the film was "Not
all
treasures silver and gold mate ....." and " me I am
dishonest............................"
both said by the very talented Jack sparrow that is Johnny Depp. The
fighting was cool  and awsome . My family had a great time watching it
especially my bro and me and i would really say this film is worth a
watch.
I really loved it, east or west Pirates of the Caribbean is the
best.

******
13 April 2004
10

It just goes to show, this movie was created to promote a ride, but it has
turned out to be one of the best movies of 2003.
Set around 1700, a ship of cursed pirates scour the oceans for a piece of
Aztec gold to lift the curse. Their search leads them to Port Royal, a
port
town, home to the Governor's daughter, Elizabeth Swan (Knightly) and her
secret, blacksmith admirer, Will Turner (Bloom).
The pirates, lead by the evil, Captain Barbossa (Rush), kidnap Elizabeth
in
an attempt to break the curse but when Turner finds out, he tries to save
her by seeking assistance of the eccentric Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp).
The
plot is pretty mediocre- the true sparkle of the film is Depp and the
wonderful script.
Johnny Depp's flamboyant Keith Richards impersonation is fabulous as
Sparrow- probably his best role yet. Orlando Bloom is cringe-worthy as
'nerdy' Turner and portrays the character brilliantly- as does Keira
Knightly who brings the feminine energy to the rather over masculine
film.
This is a film that could have easily sunk like the ships in it but it is
ridiculously well casted and brilliantly directed. The script is
Oscar-worthy, which could be down to Johnny Depp who made many adjustments
to his lines.
Full of charming, fun characters, convincing special effects, energetic
action sequences and an array delightful accents, this film will transport
you to sun, sea, sand and a swashbuckling masterpiece.


******
12 April 2004
10

A movie based on a disney ride is getting to be a phase!This is a surprise
it was amazing!Johnny Depp is great in this movie and Orlando Bloom shows
that he can be more than a great elf!The effects are really well done and
the fight scenes were well put together and all together was an excellent
movie!This is a little scary so young kids might be scared of the scenes
where the pirates show there true selves.But a well deserved treat for the
movie fan looking for a good entertaining movie with everything to offer
action adventure a little scary and yes even some comedy!Johnny Depp should
have got the oscar for this movie!this unlike the haunted-mansion is great
just because it is based on a ride don't look it over it is one of the best
movies i have seen in a long time

******
11 April 2004
10

This movie is just plain, old-fashioned fun.  And Johnny Depp and Geoffery
Rush are the core of this film.  Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom, try as
they might are completely overrun by these two shining stars.  And we come
back to Johnny Depp, he was nominated for an oscar for his role in this
film
and after seeing it you will understand why.  Johnny's traditional
affinity
for quirky roles is evident in this character of Jack Sparrow.  The
eccentric, slightly drunk, incredibly dashing and mischievous Pirate
Captain.  His fellow pirate in the movie and once friend, now rival
Captain
Barbossa is played to perfection by Geoffery Rush.  Rush also opts to not
to
play his character straight and it is to his credit.  I adore Rush, his
comical character in "Shakespeare in Love" brings back fond memories.  The
two pirates steal the show and Johnny the hearts of all the girls in the
audience (provided that you like a lot of black eyeliner and dreadlocks on
a
man.)The other characters pull off slightly dry and less intriguing roles with
enough stuffing to hold the film together but not do much for it.  The
film
is wonderful to watch though.  It has an enticing and rather odd story
line
and how wonderful it is to watch Pirates sail the seven seas.  This is a
movie that Hollywood has been dying to make for years and in it they have
created a fun ride and a blockbuster.  

******
10 April 2004
10

I love this movie!.. its the BEST movie i've seen in a LONG LONG time!..
this is my favorite movie ever!.. Johnny Depp is awesome in this
movie..
The movie is good for the girls because Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom are
in
it..so even if you're not enjoying the movie, atleast you will have
something good to look at..
and its good for the guys because there is a lot of action in this movie..
there's a lot of sword fights and some ships blow up!
If you haven't already seen this movie, I suggest that you go and rent it
right now!.. I can't wait to see Pirates of the Caribbean
2!!!


******
8 April 2004
10

This was an excellent piece of work, in my opinion. It was a movie that
balanced good acting (Johnny Depp was awesome, and Orlando Bloom was
surprising), good action (any fan of fighting and war and adventure should
see this), and sheer knee-slapping humor! Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp)
provided many one-liners and spur-of-the-moment quips that made me laugh
my
butt off....The skeletal pirates were well-done and the score was very
fitting. I can't think of any flaws right off the bat, except that Tim
Curry
could've been a great addition! The movie is a tad on the longer side, but
you won't notice, because you'll be so busy laughing and crying to the
bumbling, dimwitted antics of the worst pirate you've ever heard of....but
you HAVE heard of him!I highly suggest this movie....10/10!

******
31 March 2004
9

An intriguing pirate movie.  Johnny Depp's character (Cap. Jack Swallow)
is
exceptionally well fleshed-out and Johnny Depp plays it "to the hilt."
The
other characters in the movie are also well done and the plot line is
complex enough to be interesting, but not too complicated as to be hard to
follow.  The special effects are also impressive--it's easy to get "lost
at
sea" in this movie.  The movie succeeds in making pirates look clever and
attractive, while the traditional British navy types leave something to be
desired.  All-in-all, this is an enjoyable flick, but one that I wouldn't
want my young grandsons to watch, as I don't think they would be able to
follow the plot!

******
31 March 2004
10

Will turner (Orlando Bloom), Comodore Norrington (Jack Davenport), and
Governor Swann (Jonathan Pryce) need the help of a pirate, Captain Jack
Sparrow (Johnny Depp) to save Elizabeth Swan (Kiera Knightley) from deadly
pirates. Everyone fears for Elizabeth's fate in the hands of pirates but
they all resort to the help of a pirate to take them to where Elizabeth
has
been taken hostage, the Black Pearl. It is the most feirsome pirate ship
in
the Caribbean and captained by Captain Barbosa (Geoffry Rush) and his
crew,
whom are all hiding the secret of why they took Miss Swann. Will Turner
and
Captain Jack Sparrow voyage out. But can they track down the Black Pearl?
Can they save Elizabeth?

******
21 March 2004
10

I thought this movie was great.  I loved all the twists and turns in the
end.  It was a great feel good kind of movie.  It broke free of the usual
Disney style.  But it did have exceptionell special effects.  And an
extremely hot actor Johnny Depp,who plays Captain Jack Sparrow.  A
drunken,
rum lovin, tanned, hot, intelligent pirate.  Johnny Depp is definatly what
made this movie so great.  NO other actor casted could have played the
role
of Jack Sparow as good as Depp.  I think his preformance was incredible.
I
loved him as Jack Sparow and as  his role as Mort Rainey in his latest
movie
"Secret Window".  All in all I believe that this movie deserves 10 out of
10
because of Johnny Depp the best looking actor in the entire world, oh,
yes,
plus the fact that the plot was intriging and so very
interesting.

******
20 March 2004
10

I thoroughly enjoyed Pirates of the Caribbean.  My Main reason I liked it
is
because it pulled me in.  The scenery, the characters and the story has
made
me want to find out more about pirates and the Caribbean.  Granted, I know
this movie is not factual, but it has sparked my imagination.  It would
had
not have turned out the same if Johnny Depp portrayed his character any
different.  This alone added so much to the movie.  All the characters
were
done well.  I just can't say enough about Pirates of the Caribbean.  It is
definitely a movie I have watched over and over on a daily basis and still
cannot get enough.  There is only one other movie I can say that about.
It
is a GREAT MOVIE!!

******
17 March 2004
10

This is my favorite Disney movie ever.  I've watched it nearly one hundred
times and haven't gotten sick of it yet.  Possibly because Johnny Depp is
so
hot that it's impossible to get tired of watching it.  Also, I have never
seen a movie with so many twists and turns in the plot.  The plot was
extremely well thought out.  I am interested though to see if the second
Pirates of the Caribean movie can match up to the first.  I give this
movie
an 11 out of 10 because Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow was just so
beleiveable and incredible.  No one,I mean no one could have played Jack
Sparrow as good as Depp did.( he was made for that role)  He is just such
an
accomplished actor that has a natural talent in acting.  Johnny won the
screen actors guild award for this movie  and was nominated for a golden
globe and an oscar.  Although he lost out to Bill Murry and Sean Penn he
will always be number one in my heart.  Because of this movie I became an
even bigger fan of Disney and gained more respect for Disney.  I await the
release of the sequil!!!

******
14 March 2004
10

Hey!!!!
I just want to say, that Pirates Of The Caribbean is one of the greatest
movies I've ever seen. I love the actors, the story, I love everything!!!!I am just so crazy about Orlando, Johnny, Keira and all the other
wonderful
guys, who had made this movie!!!!
This is my favorite movie, and guys: you should watch it, or you gonna
miss
something very big and great!!!!
I just can't wait to see Pirates Of The Caribbean 2!!!!
And the last thing:
ORLANDO BLOOM IS HOT!!!!
Love, Laerke.

******
11 March 2004
10

As everyone here can see, many of the comments about this movie is
positive.
The Writing was excellent and i can give it a 10/10 for just its writing.
There are tricks and twists in this story.
I am a fan especially to johnny. He is a great actor and he comes up with
actions which entertained its audience.
Well, i hope that the next movie would be great. Also, in my opinion, this
movie should be rated higher. Hence, for those who have not vote, watch
this
movie again and concentrate with their actors and the script. I am sure
that, you are going to enjoy this movie for the next round. I think there
will be another movie coming out for this, hence i encourage everyone of
you
to watch it.

******
11 March 2004
10

It's great to see a pirate movie again, especially SUCH a good one.  I
love
the old pirate movies (Captain Blood, one about Jean Lafette(sp)).  But
they
went out of fashion with fluff movies like Cutthroat Island.  Pirates is a
comedy and has ghosts but it's got something that makes all that ok.  And
I
don't mean just cute stars either, but Orlando and johnny aren't hard on
the
eyes!  Also, Disney seems to have done some research since making
Pocahontas, the ship in that cartoon was rigged so badly that a blind
folded
5 year old could have done better.
Hopefully the sequel will be well-thought out and not just an attempt to
make money off the name.


******
4 March 2004
10

The most beautiful movie i ever seen for long time .i liked it soooo much
Johnny Depp deserve the oscar for this great performace but he isn't lucky
the movie contains all people needs fun, action, adventure,and i can't say
any thing more exept that jack sparrow is a charming pirate he is smart,
funny, and attractive this movie is wonderful.I can't wait to see the next
part jack sparrow captured my heart he stole it from me he is incredable
pirate. what i can say i didn't see pirates movie like this in my whole
life
it is differes than all johnny depp's old movies my favorite movie was
edward scissorhands but now it is pirates of the caribbean the curse of
the
black pearl . two thumbs up for all pirates.

******
3 March 2004
9

I was pleasantly surprised when I saw this movie because, quite honestly,
I
really did not expect to enjoy it at all.  Although not a classic piece of
filmmaking, the movie was never intended to be such and did exactly what
it
intended to do - entertain.
The make-up and costumes for the pirates were very well done and most of
those same pirates were very well played.  The town of Tortuga and the
ships
were also quite impressive.
Geoffrey Rush was very good in his role as Barbossa, although perhaps he
should have been more evil.  Jack Davenport and Jonathan Pryce were very
good in their roles as Commander Norrington and Governor
Swann.
However, as already mentioned a million times, Johnny Depp completely
steals
the show with his wacky performance as Captain Jack Sparrow.  This
character
should have been pretty one-dimensional but instead he's larger than life.
Sparrow is a very memorable character.
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley had perhaps the two worst performances
in
this movie.  Their characters were so flat that one truly doesn't care
what
happens to them.  Looking handsome or pretty just doesn't cut
it.
Another complaint is the extended scenes involving fights with skeletons.
Although the CGI pirates were impressive, the fight sequences near the end
go on far too long.
That said, the movie is still surprisingly good and very
entertaining.

******
29 February 2004
10

Take an exciting trip back to the days of pirates, gold, and adventure on
the high seas.  The days of Flynn are gone, here comes Depp!  Oh and what
a
movie this is. There is something for everyone in the family with this
movie, romance, action, drama, horror, adventure and fantasy.  A quality
of
acting rivaling no other movie in recent times, except for the Rings
trilogy, but that's another thing altogether.  I have watched this movies
so
many times that I can't even keep track.  This movie never gets boring.
Johnny Depp is at the top of this career with this film!! A must see, many
times over.  I can't wait to see the next Pirates of the Carebean, should
be
great.

******
29 February 2004
10

Best movie i have ever seen- well actually a tie with bend it like
beckham.
POTC RULESSSSSSSS!  the plot was awesome, and johnny depp was the
greatest.
hes my favorite actor- and really hot.  orlando bloom was great too!  hes
really hot too, haha.  geoffrey rush was incredible as the captain
barbosa.
kieri knitely's performance was just as amazing as everybody elses.  i
dont
know what else to say.  this movie was filmed with action and funny as
hell!!!!  well anways, if you havent seen this movie- you are really
missing
out, i mean REALLY.  o yea, and i know this is totally off the subject-
but
if you haven't read the Da Vinci Code by Dan Brown, read it!  thats the
best
book, just as this is the best movie!

******
28 February 2004
10

A true classic!  The cursed tale of a pirate ship's captain, marooned by his
mutineering mates and left for dead on a desert isle.  He returns with
another ship, this time stolen from the Royal Navy, in order to reclaim his
rightful command of the infamous Black Pearl, a ship so evil that hell
itself spat back her dead.  He is joined by the son of a murdered pirate
ship's mate, a swordsman who's skill and craft are equal to that of Robin
Hood himself.  The boy is motivated by love for a woman, herself of royal
blood and captured by those mutineering pirates of ill repute in order to
release a curse cast upon them from the captured gold of the famous Spanish
explorer and conquistador, Hernando Cortez.  With the Royal Navy in hot
pursuit of their stolen ship, the captain and the boy, along with another
crew of pirates, make haste for the Black Pearl, execute a cunning plan, and
live happily ever after.  Well, not exactly like that but almost.  This film
is destined a classic because of the dry, witty comments, superb acting of
the entire cast, outstanding writing and special effects, and it's about
time someone put this swashbuckling story to film.  Rated PG-13, which is
the number of times you should see this movie.

******
28 February 2004
10

I must confess that until I saw this film, I was never a fan of Johnny
Depp-don't know
why, but there you are. A friend lent me this on DVD and I was absolutely
gobsmacked.
What a SUPER film, and Depp is perfect  as Jack Sparrow. Everyone is
wonderful, but the
film belongs (as I wish the Best Actor Oscar would, but I don't trust
Hollywood) to Johnny
Depp.The combination of humour, action, romance, and ghostly pirates is quite a
mix, and
the plot moves along at a fine speed.I really can't fault this film; it is SO good!

******
28 February 2004
9

Another triumph for Johnny Depp showing his range as an actor.  His
Captain
Jack Sparrow is a surprisingly effective blend of Errol Flynn and Bugs
Bunny
that keeps the story moving with wit and adventure.The rest of the cast is strong, too and the story is well written.
Geoffrey
Rush is delightfully villainous as Barbarossa.  Kiera Knightley is the
perfect heroine.  Orlando Bloom stands out as well.  The story has enough
tension and excitement to keep you on edge to the end.It's great to have good acting and a wonderful story in a family movie
that
can really be enjoyed by all ages.  I'm looking forward to the
sequel.A must see!

******
27 February 2004
10

This was the most fun movie of 2003. The story was original and above
average, a pleasant surprise for a story based loosely on a theme park
entertainment. The ghost ship and crew was a nice touch, but the show
remained essentially an old fashioned adventure story, enhanced by a
really
good production to make everything seem believable. It had a good pace and
special effects, but the strongest thing in its favor was the really good
acting. Johnny Depp put in a great performance to make his character
amusingly eccentric and likable, but there were other fine cast members,
such as Geoffrey Rush and Orlando Bloom, not to mention some really
knavish
pirates. 

******
25 February 2004
10

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN is one of my favorite films of 2003.  Johnny Depp
deserves an oscar for the starring role, and owns the film from the time
he
hits the screen.  Great job all around, the film looks cool, and the
special
effects are flawless.Admittedly, when I first heard about PIRATES, the idea of a motion picture
based on a Disney theme park ride seemed just plain asinine.  When I saw
the
trailer it seemed like it may work, but I wasn't totally convinced just
yet.
But when I saw the film in the theater, I was completely blown away.
Now,
having watched it again on DVD, it still holds up as one of the best of
2003.Depp's portrayal of Jack Sparrow is incredible.  He says that much of the
persona was inspired by Keith Richards, either way it's an outstanding
performance all through the film.  The mannerisms, gait, look, everything
totally works.  Geoffrey Rush turns in a fine performance as Sparrow's
nemesis Capt. Barbossa, and clearly loves this role.  The rest of the cast
is totally solid, and there are also references to the Disney ride, which
totally work in the context of the film.This movie is visually stunning, and the effects look flawless.  I
actually
preferred the look of the undead pirates in this film to the somewhat
similar treatment that the army of the dead had in RETURN OF THE
KING.If you have not seen PIRATES, by all means check it out.  It's a great
popcorn movie that entertains without being condescending.  Cool to see
Depp
get the Oscar nom, and it would be even cooler to see him win.  Now that
he's won the SAG award, it will be interesting to see what the Academy has
to say.


******
23 February 2004
10

I saw the previews for this movie in the theatres, but thought that
watching
it would probably lower my IQ somehow. When I heard that it was a summer
hit, I scoffed thinking "it figures." But after a friend told me it's not
that stupid and Johnny Depp gives a good performance, I rented it. I'm
glad
I did, since it's really fun, but not mind numbingly preposterous. Depp is
stunning. Captain Jack just oozes charisma, and I eagerly awaited his
return
when he wasn't onscreen. I had no idea what this film was about, so the
little twist was a complete shocker and quiet scary! I think Johnny Depp
deserves the Oscar for his performance. Granted, the other guys gave
powerful performances and what not. But Depp did too, and he took a lot of
risks in his! None of the other nominees stole every scene of their
respective movies. Also, their character portrayals were easily dictated
by
the script. But Depp created someone refreshing and new. The only thing I
could say is that this movie is waaay too long. Three hours? And the fight
scene in the cave had a few to many 'twists.' It didn't really need them.
Oh
well. It's still good over all. I'm glad that they are making a sequel.


******
21 February 2004
10

Hehe! PIRATES ROCK!! I luved it. Who knew Disney could do such a great job
on a movie based on a ride?? Johnny Depp and Orli were awesome, and i am
sooooo jealous of Kiera. Hehe. ANYHOO... This was an awesome movie!
YAH!!

******
19 February 2004
10

Arrr matey, it's about time these landlubbers made a good old-fashioned
pirate movie! I for one felt the need for this kind of action and in my
opinion, this movie is brilliant. Just the breath of fresh air you need
after the usual gore fest in movies today. "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a
great achievement, successful in being both fun and thrilling at the same
time. It's the kind of movie that you either love or hate, but for a fan
of
the genre, it's a true blessing and a must see. I haven't been so excited
about a movie in a long time and I believe that we need more movies like
it,
because it appeals a lot to the kid inside everyone. We've all imagined
ourselves sailing the seven seas, sword fighting with anyone that comes in
our way. "The curse of the Black Pearl" really fires up your imagination
and
the special effects add to the great feeling of reality the movie gives
you,
as it takes you into a world long forgotten.
Johnny Depp surprises with his role as a pirate captain and is probably
one
of the last actors you would expect to play such a part. Nevertheless, his
performance is outstanding and I can't remember him being so witty in any
other role he's played. In conclusion this is a movie you can really enjoy
and something the movie industry forgot about, that certain something that
makes the seventh art so great: a fun adventure. You'll feel like you're
12
again! I certainly hope there will be a sequel.

******
16 February 2004
10

I saw this movie 4 times in the theater, and since I didn't have a DVD
player when it was released for the home, I bought the VHS tape. Only to
buy
the DVD when I got a player for Christmas. I have not regretted any of the
money I spent on this movie.Yes, I feel Johnny Depp has been robbed of both the Golden Globe award,
and
the BAFTA, for Best Actor. No one else could have played this character
with
as much swish and buckle. Hopefully the Academy of Motion Pictures will
find
it in their hearts to be just and do the right thing.The special effects were so well blended with the CGI. Seamless and
smooth,
the skeleton crew and swordfight between Jack and Barbossa awed and amazed
me.The script was witty and smart, never playing down to the audience and
making us feel like idiots. These writers deserved to be nominated
too.And while I did notice some minor continuity faults for the most part,
most
of this stuff made sense through and through.This is a movie worth seeing on the big screen at $9 a pop and worth
buying
at $25 a video. A must see, must own. And truly one of this summer's
highlights.

******
16 February 2004
10

I did not rush out and see this film.  I mean, it is based on a theme ride
at Disneyland/World.  Ah, but that was my mistake.  I kept hearing good
things about it and finally did see it.  I immediately found the sound
track
and also purchased the 2-disc DVD set when it was released.
Johnny Depp has produced a masterful characterization in CAPT. Jack
Sparrow,
borrowing perhaps a bit from the barge gypsy in "Chocolat".But Depp truly hones and defines the swash and the buckle in Jack Sparrow.
I realize the film was released in Summer 2003 to probably help build
concessions at the Disney Parks, and the Caribbean, islands, ships, and
pirates are perhaps more conducive to summer movie audiences. But perhaps
a
slightly later release date might have helped the film garner more Oscar
nominations.  I regret that the music and the costumes have not been
nominated.  I am pleased that the Academy did single out Johnny Depp for a
Best Actor nomination.  I realize his chances of winning are as great a
long
shot as Seabiscuit's were in his career, but I, for one, hope Mr. Depp
wins.
Captain Jack has a thrilling physical introduction in the film and his
energy just goes on and on.  He has a single purpose and he keeps to it,
manipulating the winds, waves, and folk that come his way.  Beautifully
written and acted.  It is not often that a choice role combines with a
commercially successful film to push an actor up into star range, but
Captain Jack Sparrow has certainly done this for Mr. Depp. Mr.Bloom, Mr.
Rush and Ms. Knightley are good support. Quite a romp with great
swordsmanship. A really good crew assembled.  "Yo ho!"


******
16 February 2004
10

Re: The comment from the individual that could not understand the British
accents and/or some lines with overlying sound effects.I recently explored the DVD at great length, and was fascinated with the
English captioned lines for the hearing impaired.  While not perfectly
transcribed, they do help one understand lines that were yelled or
screamed
over cannon fire, wave sounds, etc.  For example, I heard Geoffrey Rush
say,
"They're clubhauling".  Had not heard this term in the movie theater.  The
captioned edition really did fill in some details in the script.


******
10 February 2004
10

This is the best movie I have ever seen, and that's saying a lot!
Absolutely brilliant screenplay and acting, I couldn't have asked for
anything better.  Johnny Depp creates an original personality for his
character, Jack Sparrow, a pirate looking for revenge after the mutiny 10
years ago from his first mate, Captain Barbossa.  Geoffrey Rush gives
Barbossa an amazing character, full of wickedness but also just that touch
of pity and laughter.  When the pirates of the Black Pearl, Jack's old
ship,
attack Port Royal, they take the governor's daughter, Elizabeth Swann
(Keira
Knightley), with them onto the ship.  Keira has definitely launched her
career with this role as she displayed some wonderful acting.  Will
Turner,
played by Orlando Bloom, is determined to rescue her and teams up with
Jack.
Orlando has done it again - made a great movie even better.  But only
Jack
knows that a curse has doomed Barbossa and his crew to live
forever.I just absolutely adore this movie; it has everything - adventure, comedy,
romance, action, you name it.  Not to mention impeccable casting,
wonderful
costume and makeup, astonishing props and scenes, and amazing music.  I
definitely recommend this movie to anyone who wants to see a truly great
movie.  11/10!!!

******
7 February 2004
10

I think that this movie could possibly be up there in my top 5.or even top
3. i think Johnny Depp gives a wonderful performance as Captain Jack
Sparrow
and Geoffry Rush is also excellent. This film is fun, fast and
entertaining.
Everyone must see it!

******
28 January 2004
10

This movie was so funny. Johnny and Orlando are pretty funny. I'm really
into the "ship" related movies likes this one and Master and Commander.
This
movie was one of the best I've seen. If you haven't seen this, YOU NEED
TO!!! I can't wait til the second one comes out in 2005. I have an idea
that
that one is going to be just as good or even better. Can't wait to see
Johnny again.

******
28 January 2004
10

I didn't expect this movie to be so funny before I got into the cinema.
Johnny Depp's performance was marvellous. He made me laugh all the way
from
the beginning till the end. The script was nicely written and there are so
many memorable quotes that still make me laugh whenever I read them.
People
are surprised of the 2004 Oscar nomination for Depp but not me. I think he
deserves it and it's been such a long wait for such a talented actor like
him. Of course I hope he wins but with strong contenders like Bill Murray
and co.... okay, I still hope he wins. I'm glad they're planning to make a
sequel but I hope the script is equally great as the original one. Can't
wait til the sequel's out!

******
27 January 2004
10

Having been disappointed many times by big blockbuster movies that, er,
don't really hit the spot, I anticipated PoTC to be another movie to enjoy
a
bit then forget. It was, after all, branded as a goody-goody Disney movie
with a bunch of heartthrobs casted in it. Big deal. How much can an undead
pirate ensemble hold our attention and keep us in our seats?Well.Directed by 'The Ring' man Verbinski, produced by big time Bruckheimer,
scripted by the writers of Shrek, and casted with eccentrics like the
long-lost Depp, PoTC was a project that called upon an unusual combination
of dedicated adventurers and artists who unabashedly engineered the movie
to
the extreme, purely for the audience's enjoyment. I mean, Johnny Depp with
real gold teeth and eyeliner, and Geoffrey Rush with a pesky monkey on his
shoulder?And it's not just the big guys who did all the magic--watch out for those
supporting characters and little details in the set that would keep you
smiling.Oh. And, I'm not the only one who has been surprised--and impressed. PoTC
garnered FIVE Oscar nominations today, including a Best Actor nomination
for
Depp's, shall we say, savvy performance that won't be easy to forget.
Trust
the Academy on this.And why was PoTC so great? Because the people behind the movie simply
delivered their all, man. PoTC is romance, humor, adventure, suspense, and
horror, all in one package, perfect for the cynical, the innocent, and
those
in between.

******
26 January 2004
10

This was probably the greatest movie of 2003. And should be remembered for
years to come. Everything from its casting, special effects, and story to
it's original lines and witty characters is fantastic. It's a movie that
you
can never get tired of and once you watch it, you'll want to see it again
and again. I haven't seen a movie yet that can compare to this
extraodinary
flick. So if I was you I'd get up from the computer and go rent
it...savvy?

******
26 January 2004
10

I really loved this movie. The story is really cool, the special effects
are
well made and it's so funny. Jack sparrow did his job really well, he's
the
coolest caracter! I also liked the skelettons and the jokes that are in
this
movie!

******
24 January 2004
10

This is truly one of the best, if not the best adventure film I have ever
seen!  I'm not the only one as over 36% of the voters gave this one a 10 out
of 10.  Great characters and terrific writing make this a classic for
generations to come!  If you have not seen this one, get out and buy it
today - notice I said buy and not rent.  You will love this
one!

******
24 January 2004
9

Just watched this on DVD.  Very amusing, and pretty good family fun, too. 
There were several scenes where you could see the scenes from the ride. 
Other scenes were very cool.  For those people who don't get it - it's a
fantasy that only has a base in what really happened.  The skeletons are
there because they've been cursed!Actually, I mentioned to my wife as we were watching the movie that I was
expecting to see the skeleton of Bootstrap come walking into the final
fight, from having finally gotten free from the cannon.


******
24 January 2004
10

This film wraps together the perfect measures of fun, action and
adventure.
Every part of this film is intriguing. It never grows old, but keeps you
on
the edge of your seat the entire time. Johnny Depp, as always, thrills
audiences with his wonderfully believable character: the infamous Jack
Sparrow. Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush once again bring life to the
screen, and Kiera Knightly proves herself to be the shining star she
really
is, and establishes her place among the other lead actors. This action
packed story is a film that the whole family can enjoy.

******
20 January 2004
10

When great actors are acting in a great movie, the result is astonishing.
Gore Verbinski produced a pearl that will be a classical in the future.
Johnny Depp seems to be pirate for his whole lifetime. Orlando Bloom at
the
side of the stunning Keira Knightley confirms his potential to be one of
the
best actors currently.

******
19 January 2004
10

Undoubtedly one of the most entertaining, fun, rousing, and exciting
adventure-movies of the year, `Pirates' is far better than you think it is. 
Basically, it is about a pirate Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) who teams
with Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) to rescue a maiden Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightley) and seize back `The Black Pearl,' now captained by Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush).  The exact plot is rather difficult to explain but not
difficult to understand.  Even though it is based on a Disneyland ride and
produced by Jerry `Kaboom!' Bruckheimer, `Pirates' succeeds because it's so
full of charm, humor, wit, and absolutely terrific ensemble acting. Almost every single existing review of this movie commends Johnny Depp for
his funny, original, and wacky take on Captain Jack Sparrow.  And that
commendation is well deserved; Depp looks like he's having a lot of fun and
he's inviting the audience to share it.  His numerous and hilarious facial
expressions are worth the price of admission alone!  (He truly is one of the
most talented and under-appreciated actors of todayhe is totally awesome; I
can't say enough good things about him.)  Because Depp steals every single
scene he is in, many critics haven't left room to write about a number of
other really terrific performances in the movie.  Geoffrey Rush is funny,
over-the-top, and pitch-perfect as Captain Barbossa.  There is one scene
where Rush shines more radiantly than anyone else on the cast: when he is
forcing Elizabeth and Captain Jack to walk the plank, Rush har-har-hars and
swishes his sword and also has the funniest facial expressions.  I also
enjoyed the performance of Jack Davenport, as Commodore Norrington; he
provided the perfect counterpart of the craziness of Jack Sparrow and
Captain Barbossa.  `Pirates' is clearly focused on character acting, which
the director and screenwriters have obviously held to be of more importance
than explosions and cannons and skewering of people (although there is lots
of that too).  To comment (to PRAISE, actually) on a few other things, I think the
screenwriters did a fine job of mixing wit and humor into almost every
single line of this movie.  Captain Jack and Barbossa clearly have the best
lines and I can't remember a time where I laughed more in a movie.  Also,
the violence is tame and rather harmless; I appreciated that.  There is
nothing too graphic.  The visual imagery is absolutely superb and the set
design is fantastic; the costumes (especially the pirates costumes) were
genuine-looking and looked really well on the actors.  It's total eye-candy.
 And lastly, I can't say enough good things about the music.  Klaus Bedelt's
score is heroic, bold, and entirely memorable.  The music accompanied the
movie perfectly but still sounds perfectly marvelous even without the movie.
 Everyone involved in the `Pirates' production ought to be incredibly proud
for bringing such a magnificent adventure to the big screen.  I can't wait
until the sequel!  `Pirates' is definitely my favorite movie of 2003. 

******
18 January 2004
10

After working on an internship at Disney World and becoming a devoted Disney
fan, I was absolutely psyched for the Pirates of the Caribbean movie.  The
only other movies that matched my excitement for Pirates were the new Star
Wars movies, and let me tell you, Pirates did not disappoint!  I dragged my
parents to see it during the first weekend and was a bit saddened when the
experience was over.Fast-forward to Christmas, and my ever-observant parents give me the DVD.  I
watch it again, and it's just as good as before, if not better!  My only
complaint from the first time I saw it was that the movie was a little long,
but watching a second time, I was never bored or was never looking at my
watch.Every minute is jam packed full of action, humor, and excitement.  As so
many people have noted, Johnny Depp absolutely steals the show.  I was a bit
iffy when I first heard he was cast because of movies like From Hell and The
Ninth Gate, but he has created one of the most memorable characters of all
time.  His performance in this movie will be appreciated and enjoyed by
people for years and years to come.Along with Mr. Depp, the acting ensemble in this movie is quite good. 
Geoffrey Rush uses his Oscar clout in a great role as the evil Captain
Barbossa.  His stature in this movie results in a very fun and formidable
villain.  Orlando Bloom also does a good job as sort of a naive citizen who
becomes a brave hero for the love of his life.  Which brings me to Keira
Knightley who is just so H-O-T you can't take your eyes off her.  I think
she is definitely going to have a very prestigious movie career as already
indicated in the successful Love Actually.So without making this review way too long, you can tell that I love this
movie.  It's definitely one of my top five favorite movies of all time.  The
special effects are great.  The story is smart and involving.  The acting
and direction are phenomenal.  And most importantly, this movie is just fun,
a main ingredient that most movies should strive for.My IMDb Rating: 10/10.  My Yahoo! Grade: A+ (Oscar-Worthy)

******
18 January 2004
10

I would say this is one of the best films i have ever seen.  One of
Johnny's
best and Orlando too! Well put together with an amazing cast! Johnny
really
stole the show with all his funny sayings and such..."But why is the rum
gone?" Truly an amazing actor I'm glad they chose Johnny for this part
he's
sooo great! Geoffry Rush also did an excellent job..people dont seem to
give
him as much credit as he deserves..(maybe just because he's not hott) but
i
dunno he was amazing. ahh yea and the amazing 18 year old Keira. Great
great
job! I love this movie and if you havnt seen it...GO! 

******
16 January 2004
9

Pirates of the Carribean is not your average film. Action, special effects,
a good score, romance, and great acting encompass this film and make it an
adventure that you want to be a part of. And a great part of it is that the
actors maintain great character and bring humor into the story. Johnny Depp
is without a doubt at his best in this film, and most definetly delivers an
award-winning portrayal as the adventurous, swave, and disillusioned Captain
Jack Sparrow. Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom, and Keira Knightley, along with
others, light the screen also. However, in the end it is Depp who bedazzles
the viewer. A great movie to rent and watch with others. Although may seem
to be a bit of a lengthy epic, it has some great lines and moments that
you'll remember days after watching it. I can't wait for a sequel! 


******
16 January 2004
9

Johnny Depp stole the screen with his funnier than hell character that
made
this movie. He is the ONLY reason I loved "Pirates," although the entire
cast was perfect. Bloom and Knightly were also good, but they were the
more
serious touch to the movie. Depp made it comedy. Definitely a worthwhile
film to buy!

******
16 January 2004
10

This film has everything - Action, Romance, Mystery and a little bit of
Horror and History thrown in. This should be the film to give Johnny Depp
the recognition and respect he deserves as one of our most talented actors
around. Disney really made a winner this time - a definite Must
See!!!


******
15 January 2004
10

Finally a true Walt Disney movie. This is something that would have come
from Walt's own mind.
Verbinski really put himself into this film. It proves that with an
excellent director and an even more excellent cast, one can make a movie
that keeps one on the edge of their seat.
This film may start out unusual but once the burning ship scene appears,
the movie is a non-stop roller coaster ride. It might slow down, but only
to
allow you to catch your breath for the next swash buckling
scene.
I truly hope that the sequel is as good. There is the possibility of
Barbossa returning under the curse of Cortez. The end of the closing title
shows the monkey pulling a medallion from the chest of Cortez and turning
cursed. Drop the medallion on Barbossa and guess who is back. There is the
possibility. 

******
14 January 2004
10

This film wraps together the perfect measures of fun, action and
adventure.
Every part of this film is intriguing. It never grows old, but keeps you
on
the edge of your seat the entire time. Johnny Depp, as always, thrills
audiences with his completely believable character: the infamous Jack
Sparrow. Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush once again bring life to the
screen, and Kiera Knightly proves herself to be the shining star she
really
is, and establishes her place among the other lead actors. This action
packed story is a film that the whole family can enjoy.

******
12 January 2004
9

This is, as so many have already noted, a great pirate movie, in fact one of
the best ever. But it could have been better, I think. I'm not exactly sure
just how, but somehow. Perhaps because it was produced by Disney. It seemed
to have some of that usual Disney "insipidness" that tends to take the edge
off of otherwise excellent movies. Some kind of pandering to an unseen and
irrelevant "political correctness". I don't know exactly. It is  great for
kids, my 10 year old just loved every second, and when you have kids, that
counts for everything. I personally enjoyed it, but I wouldn't sit through
it again. (Unlike "Return of the King," which I could sit through another 17
times, I'm sure!)

******
12 January 2004
10

This was a great movie, a little long in length (which is not a bad thing,
who wants to watch an 80 minute movie???) but wonderfully cast and
crewed;great story line-all together an excellent movie which i have
watched
more than several times since it's release last year and i don't get tired
of the story or the special effects.  Definitely a must see, plus it's
Disney so nothing to risque and the whole family can watch

******
11 January 2004
10

When my friends told me they wanted to see Pirates of the Caribbean I was
a
bit skeptical. The movie didn't even seem that good in the previews. But
when I seen it recently I couldn't believe what I missed out on. I have
found great respect for Johnny Depp. He is an amazing actor. If he was not
cast in this movie I don't think the movie could have been so great.
Overall
I give it a 10. It had everything a great movie should have.


******
8 January 2004
10

Every now and then a movie comes along that is nothing short of sheer
FUN
This is one of those movies
Johnny Depp adds to his already impressive list of performances  the
"swishbuckling" Captain Jack Sparrow
Other people have said so many wonderful things so I won't need to add to
them
JUST SEE IT and prove me right

******
6 January 2004
10

That's right. This is the best film about pirates and the high seas.
Everything here works, this is the most perfect summer slice of blockbuster
escapism that has emerged in a long time. High brow critics may bulk, but
this is not meant to be a film that is all about characterization and
emotion, it's meant to be fun, fun and fun and we get a lot of it.First of all, Johnny Depp is great. The surprising thing about it is, he
seems well suited to being in a blockbuster film, more so that I thought
before, and even more surprising is that his role as Jack Sparrow isn't the
type that is taking advantage of his movie star good looks. Here is has
dirty teeth, rag tag long hair and is playing basically a crook, but a
lovable one of course. His performance is perfect, from his mannerisms, the
slurred speech and the Keith Richards like accent, he should definitely be a
favorite for the Golden Globe for best actor in a musical or comedy. The
rest of the cast are well filled out too, with Orlando Bloom magnificent as
the straight man Will Turner, Kiera Knightly is very lovely as the damsel in
distress and finally Geoffrey Rush is great as the evil villain with a nice
sideline in comedy.The script is surprisingly witty here, but coming from the writers of Shrek,
this isn't surprising. It's not high art, but the script is a wonderful
adventure laced with magnificent humor. Gore Verbinski as director handled
the material rather well, which is a surprise. As the director of The Ring
and Mousehunt, I wasn't sure if he were the right choice to be doing this
film, especially considering that it is produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, but
alas, I wouldn't be surprised after this effort if Verbinski joins Michael
Bay and Tony Scott in the esteemed list of Bruckheimer
directors.Of course the special effects are brilliant also. The sequences involving
the dastardly crew of the Black Pearl turning into skeletons (the CGI monkey
is terrifically well realized) are amongst some of the best special effects
of 2003, while the shot of all the pirates of the Black Pearl walking on the
ocean floor is spine tingling.Overall this is a fantastic film and ranks as one of the best blockbusters
to have emerged from this decade so far.

******
6 January 2004
10

This is just plain and simple... a great movie. Very entertaining,exciting,
and Orlando Bloom with Johnny Depp are great fun to watch. Johnny Depp gave
the best performance in my opinion. Orlando Bloom and Keira are amazing for
being so young but so interesting to watch. This is just a one of a kind
movie,go see it.

******
5 January 2004
10

Watching this movie was the most pleasant surprise that I've had in a
movie
theatre since I was dating... this movie reminded me so much of years
gone
by when movie making was based on great stories as well as great
character
development and excellent acting...these days, movie makers rely so much
on
special effects to cover the incredible shortcomings of modern day
storytelling and talent... Mr. Depp and the others were perfect for their
roles... and, even though the special effects were spectacular, they
didn't
seem to be the reason for the movie... other motion pictures of late seem
to
be made just because some guy sitting at his computer can do something
amazing and have it look fairly real, to which they then build a story
around... the effects in Pirates simply added to the movie... and the
references to the Pirates amusement ride made the whole experience even
more
fun... I wish that more movies were like this one but, alas, after seeing
the latest movie trailers, I'm saddened by the lack of talent that hits
the
silver screen

******
2 January 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was, in fact, much better than I expected it to
be.
I was dragged to see it by some friends, and I have thanked them many
times
for making me come. Johnny Depp is awesome as Captain Jack Sparrow; in my
opinion he steals the show. This is definitely a fun, swashbuckling
adventure, which is exactly what Gore Verbinski and Jerry Bruckheimer
wanted. The DVD is one of the best of the year, as noted by myself along
with various newspapers and magazines. The writing, especially for Captain
Jack Sparrow's part, was clever. Citizen Kane it's not, but definitely one
of my favorite movies of the year and probably one of my favorites
ever!

******
1 January 2004
10

I enjoyed the film in the theatre and the DVD  adds yet another layer to
that enjoyment.The background information reveals that the producer, director, writers, and
actors were relatively relaxed, but thoroughly dedicated to creating a very
entertaining story.  They were doubtless intimidated by the recent
theatrical failures of the pirate genre, and that only spurred their
dedication.  To our benefit.  But the leading man and the writers were not completely
trusted.The deleted scenes are quite telling.  A number  of them illustrate
Sparrow's more sober and somber and ruthless characteristics and reveal him
to be an even more ambivalent character...perhaps more than the makers of
the film could credit the audience with accepting....but what a fascinating
character he is.  Hopefully, the sequels will allow Depp to fully inhabit
this chameleon. I look forward to the possibilities.

******
31 December 2003
10

This has become one of my favorite movies ever. Not a Depp fan (hes
usually
to creepy) I find myself captivated with his antics and acceptance of bad
luck. his English accent is downright excellent..specialy if he MEANT to
sound half cut throughout most of the film. As for Bloom He is most
definety
an actor with a future...I wonder if Legolas is to Frodo what Han Solo
turned out to be to Skywalker..(In other words Mark Who..??) And Miss
Knightley what a beauty. A REAL beauty. And dear Jack Davenport after
coupling how great to see him in a movie playing quite the opposite and
still be excellent bravo Jack. (and twas nice to J Pryce on screen again
after been gone a few years..something wicked this way comes is still a
fave..:).This film still has my lmao even after a dozen re runs...my 4
and 6
year old kids love it my 15 y/o girl loves it even my hard to please
hubby
loved it...At last a movie for both sexes and all  generations. Its a
winner.:D

******
31 December 2003
10

This is one of the best movies i've seen in a long time. my brother got it
for christmas and i've watched it at least once every day since. (ok a
little obssesive i know)i can't get enough of this movie. each actor did a
great job. But the one that really stands out it is good old Johnny D not
to
mention he's hot but he has a lot of talent. his portrayol of capt. jack
sparrow is what makes this such a great movie to watch he's funny charming
and witty. my suggestion is to go out and buy the DVD. it has a whole CD
of
special fetures that are just as good as the film. i rate this movie
9/10

******
30 December 2003
10

i love this movie it is one of the best i ever saw.  i loved johnny depp
in
it.  the way he acted was so great. orlando bloom was really cute and
loved
his acting even though he is still so young.  i bought the movie the day
it
came out and watched it about five times in the theaters. for all the
people
that did not watch this movie i think that you should watch
it.

******
29 December 2003
10

i love this movie.  johnny depp was excellent, and i must admitt, he was
pretty hot for like an old guy- u know.  rush & bloom were both great, i
especially thought that this one one of orlando bloom's best! kiera
knightly
was brilliant as the young miss elizabeth swann.  i thought that this was
an
absolute must see, it is definately my favorite movies.  well acted and
well
written, this was great!!!

******
27 December 2003
10

Before I saw this film I really wasn't fussed on Pirates, Johnny Depp or
Orlando Bloom, now I love them!! This film was absolutely spectacular!!!
You
haven't lived if you haven't seen it. Anyone who cares to disagree clearly
has a problem or are jealous of the wonderful performances by the actors
in
it. Johnny Depp is by far the best! He fits the role perfectly, and is
also
VERY sexy ;-) The music in the film is great too, I had to buy the
soundtrack after i had seen it.The extras on DVD are fantastic!! You HAVE to get it, it will be WELL
worth
the money, you will not be disappointed one bit. I have seen it MANY MANY
times and I still find it funny, it REALLY is a must see film :-D I would
be
VERY VERY surprised and shocked if this didn't receive a few
Oscars!

******
26 December 2003
10

Why on earth hasn't Johnny Depp got an Oscar yet????  Even if he doesn't do
a movie in a whole year, they should just give him one for being a darn good
actor.  Darn great actor, infact!  
This movie was an adventure.  One that you could go on again and again and
again.  Every aspect of the movie was extremely entertaining. As soon as
Johnny Depp enters, you know that there's gonna be a hell of a performance. 
And there was.  That guy can play anything and I really wouldn't mind if he
played a pirate for the rest of his life!  His ability to put on almost any
accent for any role is absolutely amazing.  He doesn't slip up even for a
second.  
Orlando Bloom looked really good, Keira Knightley looked really pretty and
this role suited her well. Geoffrey Rush was amazing, as
always.
The direction was excellent and the dialogues were hilarious.
Very highly recommended! *****/*****

******
26 December 2003
10

When I first saw this, it was boring and long. But Johnny Depp rules. The
second time I watched Pirates of the Caribbean, it was better. And Johnny
Depp rocks.The only problem with this movie is Orlando Bloom and Kiera Knightley. Too
much screen time for such unimportant story lines. Pirates should have just
been  more on Captain Jack Sparrow and less on the sickly love birds. It
doesn't add much to the story.All in all, wonderful effects, brilliant dialogue... good movie. It is
Disney. What a change.

******
25 December 2003
10

I didn't see this film at the cinema, but I really wish I had because it has
instantly become one of my favourite movies of all time. I bought the DVD
because I'd heard good things about the movie, and I've been to both
Disneyland Paris, and Disneyland Florida and loved the Pirates ride at both
of them. Having been on the ride, it's quite easy to spot many things in the
movie that pay tribute to the ride, especially in the town scenes. I wasn't
sure what to expect when I bought the movie, but I definitely didn't expect
to laugh so much! This movie has such a wonderful combination of excellent
acting, astounding special effects, and dry humour. What I usually find with
movies that contain a lot of special effects is that they rely largely on
them to get ratings. That may work for some but not for me, and this movie
impressed me so much because despite the effects being absolutely amazing -
I can't fault them - they don't overshadow the characters. All the actors
were brilliant, but Johnny Depp really surprised me because Jack Sparrow is
unlike any character he's ever played before, yet he played it so
fantastically. I just thought he had so much charm and wit, yet you can
still see the genuine human emotions and can really feel for him when
**SPOILER! SPOILER!** he is once again stranded on the desert island. There
is also excellent chemistry between the lead characters, especially Jack
Sparrow (Depp) and Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) even though **SPOILER!
SPOILER!** Elizabeth is romantically involved with the other male lead
character, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom). I think this movie would have been
successful without Johnny Depp, but his performance is exceptional and I
personally think he made it what it is. His facial expressions, mannerisms
and quirky comments are just hilarious and fascinating to watch. In my
opinion, Depp should have an award for this performance. This is my
favourite Disney film of all time, absolutely fantastic in every way. 10 out
of 10!

******
25 December 2003
10

This was the best movie that I have ever seen! First of all, Johnny Depp
did
a fantastic job playing Captain Jack Sparrow. He was both brilliant and
extremely hilarious. Geoffery Rush was great too. But the guy that I fell
for was definitely Orlando Bloom. I've been in love with him ever since I
saw The Lord of the Rings, but this movie really let show us how good he
can
be. His performance in this movie was amazing! So all I can say is that if
you haven't seen this movie, go see it right now, because you won't be
able
to tear yourself away from it. Enjoy! 

******
25 December 2003
10

This was the best movie that I have ever seen! First of all, Johnny Depp
did
a fantastic job playing Captain Jack Sparrow. He was both brilliant and
extremely hilarious. Geoffery Rush was great too. But the guy that I fell
for was definitely Orlando Bloom. I've been in love with him ever since I
saw The Lord of the Rings, but this movie really let show us how good he
can
be. His performance in this movie was amazing! So all I can say is that if
you haven't seen this movie, go see it right now, because you won't be
able
to tear yourself away from it. Enjoy! 

******
23 December 2003
10

This is the kind of movie we should be telling Hollywood to
make.Yes, it has big names in it. But they're also proper actors, not
celebrity
gurners (Willis) or a famous ass with celebrity baggage (J.Lo). Putting
real
actors at the heart of a daft summer flick like this results in the
creation
of uniquely appealing characters like Capn' Jack Sparrow.Yes, it's got a huge budget and superb special effects. But they're there
to
serve the story and blend seamlessly with the action - not to replace
story
or character. (Are you listening, Wachowskis? Anyone care to greenlight
LXG
II? Thought not.)Proof that there's life in the House of Mouse yet... Good gags, good
characters, a few nasty shocks for the kiddies, and no bloody Phil
Collins
songs. Uncle Walt would be proud. 

******
23 December 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean was a Great Movie filled with action, adventure,
humor, romance and suspense. My favorite character was Jack sparrow
played
by Johnny Depp. He was comic relief and made me laugh out loud. Of
course,
Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) was also great as the romantic lead with
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley).

******
22 December 2003
10

Why hasn`t anybody chosen Johnny Depp for the role of a pirate before?? I
hated pirate films until that movie came into the cinemas. Johnny plays
Jack
Sparrow brilliantly and I think Orlando Bloom is the best looking actor at
the moment. I loved him in "Lord of the Rings" but I love him now as Will
Turner. I hope there will be much more films with him in a leading role,
he
is an upcoming star!! I hope that there will be a second part and I don`t
hate pirates anymore...

******
22 December 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is a movie that has something for everyone -
adventure, humor, romance, action, drama, even a bit of the supernatural.
And all in just the right doses so that one doesn't overpower any of the
others. The writing is wonderful - clever and articulate - and brought
alive
by a first rate cast. Keira Knightly was only 17 when this was filmed and
her acting skills bring to mind Lauren Bacall at the same age. I must
say,
too, that POTC made a Johnny Depp fan out of me - it really does show
what
an amazing talent he possesses. Johnny Depp IS Captain Jack Sparrow,
having
stepped right into the persona of a pirate who is more comfortable on sea
than on land. Ruthless in his quest to retrieve his beloved ship and stay
"afloat", as it were, he keeps us guessing as to what really lies in his
heart, what makes him tick. Half the fun of the movie - most of it
really -
comes from watching to see what he will do and say next. Yes, it's a long
movie, but I really couldn't find a boring part in the whole thing - and
I
saw it six times when it was in the theatres! See it - you won't be
disappointed.

******
20 December 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean - a two hour advertisment for a disney ride? -
anything
but. The story follows Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and young
blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) as they sail across the Caribbean
to
save the governor's daughter Elizabeth Swann (Kiera Knightley) from the
termination of a curse which has left the crew of the Black Pearl in
limbo.
The
swordfights are not very epic, but the special effects are amazing. All of
the
actors and actresses are amazing in this movie, but Johnny Depp steals the
show. His portrayal of Capt. Jack Sparrow is truly unique. I loved this
movie for
many reasons, one of which is because Disney went against the grain, and
made its first PG-13 movie. Also, the pirates aren't exactly "Hollywood
bucaneers." You wont catch and peg legs, eye patches, or pieces of eight
in
this
movie. One of Disney's best.

******
19 December 2003
10

This is one of the funniest movies I have ever seen, Johnny Depp is
totally
awesome and so funny. Orlando Bloom isn't that bad either, with other
words
he is wonderful. I've only seen it two times but when it comes out on DVD
I'm the first person in Sweden to buy it.
Johnny Depp in his best movie yet.
// Madde

******
19 December 2003
10

I really enjoyed seeing this movie in the theater, but it wasn't until I
got
home and viewed it on DVD with a few beers that i really found it to be
one
of my favorite late-night views.  This really is a great feel good movie
for
when you've just come back from the bar or are busy drinking the night
away.
My suggestions, think up a good Pirates of the Caribbean drinking game
and
have away.  Great movie, Great fun sober or otherwise.

******
17 December 2003
10

I don't understand why you people have to put this movie down so much? Did
you have a bad experience with pirates or something? I mean, seriously,
they
already have a domestic gross of over 300 million!, that's pretty good for
a
lousy movie, don't you think? I think that is was successful because of
the
fact that it connected with the most visited ride in America, and that it
was a jerry bruckheimer film which gives it quality right away. Plus the
fact that it had Johnny Depp and his character that just blew me away. In
closing, this was a movie that might not get an Oscar but is still an
excellent movie.
-Ryan

******
11 December 2003
10

I thought this film was brilliant. Orlando Bloom was as gorgeous as ever,
I
really really love him soooooo much, and Johnny Depp was brill to and he
made it funny, even though it wasn't a comedy.I cant wait until the sequel comes out!

******
10 December 2003
10

Pirates of The Caribbean is a great spectacle of a film that is really a
great surprise. Johnny Depp solidifies himself as a superb actor with this
film, and Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley are just as good. The special
effects are great, and the landscape of the film is breathtaking. Kudos to
Geoffrey Rush who is a very versatile actor for giving such a great
performance as the villain, and To Jerry Brukhelmer for not letting this
film become another watered down Disney product like The Haunted Mansion.


******
10 December 2003
10

This is a must see movie Johnny Depp & Co deliver the most entertaining
film
I think I've ever watched.From the Actors to the Producer, Director, Extras, Sound, Music, Costumes
and special effects it is brilliant a film to watch again and again I
cannot
wait for the sequel in 2005.The Ultimate feel good Movie with a little Horror, Excitement and
Swashbuckling thrown in.

******
9 December 2003
10

This is a fantastic film, with an all round perfect balance of action,
drama, comedy and horror, supported by increadible special effects (the
walking crew of the damned in their moonlight guises are really quite
impressive) aswell as a rather good story and VERY good acting (in
particular on Johnny Depp's part as Captain Jack Sparrow, he is the source
of much hilarity while also being the most complex of all the characters on
screen). Good direction and music adds to this movie that will be liked by
adults and kids alike. 10 out of 10!

******
8 December 2003
10

I really loved this movie.  The movie was very funny and better than the
ride ( and this is my second fav ride at Disney world)I bought the movie the day it came out on DVD and love all of the extras.
This is one of the best movie buys I have made in a long
time.

******
7 December 2003
10

I've never seen a film quite like it.  After seeing it at the cinema I
craved to know and see more of this film and it's fantastic cast.  Best bits
are the homeage to Keith Richards Johnny Depp does, he looks so cool and
stops the film from being too Disney if that makes sense.  Bloom is the hero
character, looking very handsome indeed, plus with Keira as the heroin, the
film could not have more appeal!Yet it does, so many actors including Geoffrey Rush as Barbosa.  Wicked
film, the DVD that came out last week has so much extra to it, excellent!  I
trully cannot wait for the sequel, and I hate sequels!!!

******
7 December 2003
10

I love this movie.  The acting was great, the casting was perfect.  Johnny
Depp was great as Captin Jack Sparow, he had me laghing almost the whole
movie.  A movie with action, adventure, comidy, romance, and great acting.
What more could you ask for?  I saw it 3 times in the theater, and now I
own
it.  I highly sugest watching this movie to everyone.

******
6 December 2003
10

so if the cursed ones can't die, then I guess william turner (will's dad,
the pirate) was
alive all ten years or so in "davue jones locker" wasn't
he?maybe he escaped after all and he's alive - maybe for part 2!
:D

******
5 December 2003
10

I really enjoyed this film. The action combined with the comedy was done
really well. I liked the way the transition was between full bodied and
skeleton for the pirates when they stepped into the moonlight. Excellent
movie, I give it a 10 on the IMDB scale and 2 thumbs up on the 'thumb'
scale.

******
3 December 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is an amazing movie.  Johnny Depp does an
excellent
job playing Captain Jack Sparrow. Depp is hilarious!  The movie kept my
attention the entire time and that is very hard to do.  This is a movie
that
everyone can enjoy. It was very well done.  I give it an
A+

******
3 December 2003
10

If your a fan of Geoffery Rush, Johnny Depp, or Orlando Bloom, this is not
a
film to pass up or miss.  Best Summer Film of 2003.Best Film in Summer of 2003 to have excellent Actors, Story, Music,
Comedy,
Special Effects, Costume, and Makeup.Best to Buy rather than to rent.  Is a CLASSIC.


******
29 November 2003
10

I don't care what everyone else has said, this is by far one of the top
movies of all time, words cannot describe my awe while watching this Gore
Verbinski hit film. The impeccable acting matched the satisfying yet
cliffhanging story. Looking forward to Pirates of the Caribbean 2 in
2006

******
26 November 2003
10

Best performance of the year!  Sean Penn is nothing compared tothe sheer bizarre force of nature that is Captain Jack
Sparrow.I saw it SEVEN TIMES in the theater!  Before that the record washeld by SOUTH PARK: BIGGER, LONGER, UNCUT with only 
THREE TIMES.It's a must-see for all ages!

******
24 October 2003
7

I was going to the movies to see it and when i got in i thought:" It will
be
another movie with beautiful people(except Geoffrey Rush),a terrible
script
and lots of money for Jerry Bruckheimer". I was wrong. Since The Lord of
The
Rings the movies will never be the same again.The magic,the cast,
everything
got right on it. We have to bless Gore Verbinski, Johnny Depp, everyone
that
made it come true.But I came here
to tell about visual effects.They made me want to get into the college to
study it. I am 18 and I've never wanted to understand how Rivendell was
made.But the pirates,I felt they were real that I could touch if I see
them.
Well,share my experience with another people because this magic will be
forever.    

******
17 September 2003
10

This movie had it all:  Action, Romance, Humor, and Mystery.  It was good
enough to go see it more than once, and I'd go again if you asked me to.
Johnny Depp was hilarious, and I wanted to kiss all over his Pirate face.
It was well directed, and certainly not slow moving.

******
13 September 2003
5

Talk about sound and fury signifying nothing!  Okay, the sets, costumes
and
cinematography were great, Johnny Depp was interesting (if confusing),and
the action scenes were there but for some reason this movie never touched
me.  I just watched it, trying to figure out why Johnny Depp was playing
a
gay pirate when there was nothing in the script about it.

******
12 September 2003
10

As has been correctly stated in piecemeal form, Bruckheimer simply got it
all right with this one. He went back to basics, hired the best in the
business and came up with pure escapist entertainment that works on every
level. THE ROCK with an eye patch! Didn't hurt his cause either, that
Johnny
Depp handed in this once-in-a-career performance as Master Pirate Captain
Jack Sparrow - part cockney, part Gilbert Grape, all Rock-Star - the most
endearing rogue this side of the Jolly Roger! Geoffrey Rush's turn as
Barbossa, a supernatural `Captain Hook' gone feral and swapping his parrot
for an occasionally digitised monkey-with-attitude is given arguably his
best role since Helfgott!  Bloom also does just that.Erroll Flynn coming
along nicely! Meanwhile, the painfully corsetted Miss Knightley balances
the
film's romantic interest, Elizabeth Swann, beautifully - somewhere between
Ripley and GI Jane.Toss in a truly great script that bridges the gulf so
well between pirate chatter and teenage attention-span and you're looking
at
a seriously brilliant off the wall two and whatever hours of cornball
whimsy
that wouldn't put a harmful psychological dent in a five year old's
psyche.Depp  drops one-liners that are funny as all hell (`Stop putting holes in
my
ship'). The  production work, costuming, action sequences and set-design
are
cutting edge. What we have here is a multi-dimensional `lost-boys' loose
in
a candy shop. It's a buddy movie, a romantic comedy, an actioner and
always
at its heart,  tasteful family-orientated entertainment. Bruckheimer has
tossed everyone's juvenile pirate fantasies into a blender and poured out
this tribute to childhood memory and screen decency.Great ending also that does justice to what preceded it.  Reminded me very
much of another rollickingly good-time action-fest from Sam Raimi that
co-incidentally was also top heavy with some seriously aggro skeletal
miscreants - ARMY OF DARKNESS.  `Hail to the King  baby!'


******
31 August 2003
3

The first swordfight can sum up the whole movie. They jump on a board,
one
guy flies up in the air, he lands on the board again and the other one
goes
up. And the brain-dead audience laughs, they actually laugh - it's a sin
against anyone who considers film an art form.In the words of Tyler Durden, `Murder, crime, poverty-these thing don't
concern me.'
And his right, it should not concern us as much as Pirates of the
Caribbean.
Because crime and poverty is things a fraction of mankind have to deal
with
daily. Stupidity on the other hand is something that affects everyone
living
today.
What should concern us is that a majority of mankind's new favourite
movie
is on an intellectual level of Teletubbies.To actually criticize Pirates of the Caribbean through pointing out the
lack
of character development, the fact that every character and every scene
is a
cliché or the all-around dreadfulness of the script, is pointless. No one
that can formulate an intelligent answer can deny it.I would instead like to share with you an epiphany I have had pondering
this
movie. The question I asked myself was why people have so different
experiences watching the same movie? The answer is simply that the child
enjoying Teletubbies have a different level of understanding than the
adult.The same answer applies to why some people think movies such as Pirates
of
the Caribbean and A Knights Tale are `brilliant'. And thinks Citizen Kane
and A Clockwork Orange are the worst movies ever made.This doesn't seem like such a catastrophe, we are all different, we
accept
that and get along anyway. But it is a catastrophe to quality filmmaking,
because money-grubbing filmmakers without a sense for art will use the
same
pre-build Hollywood-scripts and recycle the same garbage for generations.Perhaps it's also a catastrophe for human intelligence. Not that a bad
movie
magically would drain the viewers IQ but it will in another way deprive
the
viewer from knowledge. Everything is a choice and through seeing a Jerry
Bruckheimer flick instead of a Stanley Kubrick film the viewer loses an
intellectual experience.How the loss of quality art would affect the democratic system in the
long
run, which only chance of working at all is if the average voter has a
reasonably high level of understanding, is not that hard to
imagine.


******
19 August 2003
10

Johnny Depp is the SEXIEST man alive!!!  I love him!  Pirates was awseome!
I think that Pirates won Johnny a whole new variety of fans. Johnny is the
best actor in the world!!  He is sooo perfect for every character that he
has ever played!  He brings life to everything!  I love Johnny
Depp!

******
15 August 2003
9

I came out of this film grinning to the point of tears. I wish more
movies
of this
type were as fun. Thats a word I love using about films, fun; I can't
remember the
last time I had so much fun in the theater!! And all of you who loved
this
film out
there: BUY THE SOUNDTRACK NOW!! It,s absolutely fantastic.

******
16 July 2003
10

That's right.  This movie is pure fun.  No, it isn't the best or worst movie
of all time ever.  But guess what?  It's entertaining, captures the spirit
of the ride and a swashbuckling adventure with some awesome special effects,
great acting and a script that doesn't even take itself seriously leading to
some very very funny moments.Mr. Depp, great job.  We wouldn't have such a good movie without ye.  I
laughed, I cried and... I got confused for a second at one of the quickly
said jokes and then figured it out and laughed some more.Fun fun fun.. what a good movie this is.  Best movie of the year.  If you
don't think so.  Oh well.  Guess you lack what makes life truly fun.  If you
liked it but don't think it's the best of the year.  I agree.  I changed my
mind.  Just the best movie of the summer.  STILL, go watch it!  you'll like
it!
... I didn't use one stupid, corny pirate-related joke at all in that
review.  Aren't you proud?"and really bad eggs"

******
10 July 2003
7
Johnny Depp saved this movie. There, that's all you need to know. POC
was a pretty good film overall, with excellent production design worthy
of any spectacular epic film. But it was one character that made this
whole movie worth watching, Mr. Depp. I have to say, that without Depp,
this movie would be tanking worse than Charlie's Angels 2 with an anvil
attached to its foot. The eccentricities of his character Jack Sparrow
provides such an energy to the film, you can't help not saying a good
word about it. Every one of the characters were fairly hollow and
boring, but Depp's portrayal of Sparrow provided a nexus for all of the
other characters to feed off of. To say the least, this film was fairly
entertaining, even if Orlando Bloom seemed completely out of his
element. This is one of he few times I will say a movie was good mostly
for its entertainment value. Rarely do pirate movies grace the
landscape of overly expensive action movies and remakes, but this movie
really hit the spot. Go to enjoy this film, because you might be
surprised.

******
10 July 2003
9

If I had to tell you whether or not to see this movie in one sentence, I
would say this:  Go see this movie purely because Johnny Depp is in
it.I know that that is what virtually everyone has been saying, but there is so
much truth in it.  As my subject line says, the movie was decent.  It had
action, a good plot, and good actors.  The script was not too awe inspiring,
there were few (but very clever) funny lines, and the special effects were
not as good as we've seen in other recent movies.  On top of that, the movie
drags on for what seems like close to four hours (it actually runs about 2
and a half).  The movie drags on and on, and after a long day of work and
other activities I was tempted to go home and get some sleep because it
seemed like the movie would just never end.  However, one thing kept me
watching: Johnny Depp.He is absolutely brilliant in this film.  He stands heads and shoulders
above everyone else in the cast.  His take on the role was completely
original and the few funny moments that there are seem to always be led by
onto the screen by him.  You just don't ever know how he's going to react to
things next, and you never know exactly whats going through his mind.  From
the minute he came sailing onto the screen you could tell that he would
command this film, and indeed he did.  Even the ever rising Orlando Bloom
(who I had a serious hard time not looking at him and thinking 'Legolas')
was barely noticable when next to Depp.  Besides Depp, the movie also scores points for its score.  It's not always
something you think about when reviewing a movie, but the music in this film
really fit perfectly with the action/adventure theme and gets you into the
battle scenes.  Overall, its an entertaining movie but one that will keep you checking your
watch almost constantly.  The pace can be slow, and the lines cheesy, but
its saving grace is Depp's astounding performance.  If for no other reason,
go see it just to see Depp.


******
14 July 2009
10
I can't believe they based the film on the Pirate ride at Disney (I
have to confess, it is my favourite ride at the Magic Kingdom). I
thought it was genius they could do a 143 minute film and have a plot
that wasn't light and had plenty of weight to it.Out of the three movies, this is my favourite.It was the first film in a while to tackle pirates and cover all the
key elements of pirate movies in the past- lovely locations, a love
story that had the right amount of attention but wasn't the main focus
of the plot, great action sequences. Then this film updated it in such
a way that modern audiences wouldn't be put off watching this type of
film which probably happened in the past as they just didn't know how
to make a successful pirate film to appeal to their audience at the
time. I thought it was an interesting idea to have the pirates cursed
and that they couldn't be killed.The cast was brilliant, I loved the romance between Elizabeth and Will
but who I enjoyed watching the most was obviously Johnny Depp. He had a
really fantastic idea about making Jack Sparrow very rock n' roll and
basing him on Keith Richards. He played him just right and probably
made him the first anti-hero in a while that the audience was
interested in watching and rooting for.The film really does have it all- stunning locations, really
breathtaking. A very unique plot with many twists and turns.
Unforgettible characters, incredible and scary special effects and
exciting sword fights.

******
20 June 2009
10
Disney's surprise hit from 2003 based on their long running theme park
ride was widely expected to be a huge flop but is a fantastic popcorn
blockbuster featuring swashbuckling action and a very sly funny
screenplay from the writers of Aladdin and Shrek.Johnny Depp is Captain Jack Sparrow, possibly the worst pirate you've
ever heard of, in search of reclaiming of his long lost ship, the
cursed Black Pearl, captained by his rival Barbossa (a brilliant
Geoffrey Rush) who have been doomed for eternity by pieces of Aztec
Gold. The cast is rounded out by a large contingent of British actors
(Bloom, Knightley, Pryce, Crook, Davenport) who excel in this kind of
film. There are countless references to the ride throughout the film
(and lots of hints of what was to come in the sequels, which is
surprising as the follow ups were never planned which is unheard of for
a summer blockbuster these days) There's nothing to fault with this
film at all IMO. Acting, screenplay, direction, production design and
FX are all superb. It's very rare with today's Hollywood product that
you come across a film like this that is just pure enjoyment from start
to finish. 10/10

******
18 June 2009
10
The Pirates of the Caribbean Trilogy has always been my favorite
trilogy because of the fact that one second the story will be serious
and adrenaline-pumping, and the next, you will be laughing at the
antics of Jack Sparrow, who is BRILLIANTLY played by Johnny Depp.But there are several other great actors that do not need to go without
mentioning. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley are both excellent in
their respective roles, and Geoffrey Rush plays a great villain in
Barbossa.But the thing besides the comedy and acting that sets this movie apart
is the action. All of them start off as ordinary old sword duels, but
they eventually escalate into unique fights with creative use of props.All of the POTC movies are fairly long, but believe me, you will have
so much fun, they seem like the normal old 2 hour movie.

******
13 May 2009
10
If there was a minor quibble with the movie, it is that it is a little
overlong. Putting that aside, this is a truly wonderful film, that is
definitely one of the highlights of 2003. The whole film is a wonder to
look at, with splendid costumes and very realistic sets. The script is
just a gem, with classic and original lines like "Stop blowing holes in
my ship," that sometimes have you in gales of laughter. I did find the
pirates as skeletons quite frightening though. Films that have scared
me are The Mummy and Pitch Black. The performances were first-rate,
especially Johnny Depp in possibly his best performance. His character
Jack Sparrow is a somewhat charming, likable rogue, and Depp pulled him
off to perfection. As Barbossa, Geoffrey Rush positively sinks his
teeth into his role, sometimes sinister and sometimes fun. Kiera
Knightly proves once again that she looks lovely in period dramas,
because it really does suit her. Orlando Bloom is dashing as Will
Turner. Before I round off, I want to mention another aspect of the
film, the music by Hans Zimmer(Lion King)... it was outstanding! Zimmer
should be up there with the great film composers, like James
Horner(American Tail, Titanic), John Williams(ET, Home Alone) and the
late Jerry Goldsmith.(Legend, The Shadow) All in all, a highly
entertaining film! 10/10 Bethany Cox.

******
11 May 2009
10
Pirates Of The Caribbean Curse Of The Black Pearl is a terrific
adventure film with action, drama, suspense, some romance, and humor.
Johnny Depp is amazing as Captain Jack Sparrow and he's clearly having
a lot of fun with this character. The rest of the supporting cast are
great in their roles including Geoffrey Rush as the villain Captain
Barbossa, Orland Bloom as Will Turner a blacksmith, and Kiera Knightely
as Elizabeth Swann. Gore Verbinksi does a fantastic job of bringing
this movie to the big screen. From the action, to the drama, to the
humor and adventure this film has something in it for everyone who's
looking for an entertaining movie to watch. It really is that good and
The Curse Of The Black Pearl is now one of the my favorite movies. With
two possible sequels on the way lets just hope they can be just as good
or even better than this one. Go see it you won't be disappointed even
with a running time of 2 hours and 23 minutes the movie is fast paced
and action packed. With plenty of humor thrown in that balances well
between the drama, suspense, and action.

******
17 March 2009
10
The idea of plucking a long-time neglected genre out of the dark,
combining it with concepts introduced by a theme park ride and throwing
the varied combination of Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush and Keira
Knightley does seem bizarre and risky. Admittedly director Gore
Verbinski and producer Jerry Bruckheimer had no idea what they had
created when they first released this spectacle into the theatres, and
certainly weren't prepared for its instant monumental success. Though
one must remember that nowadays twentieth century pirate adventure
flicks are considered predictable and shallow light entertainment that
really only haven't been criticised because of when they were made.
Indeed, you might say that it is a miracle that this film was even
accepted by today's audience and its creators were very fortunate not
to be insulted over and over by thousands of cynical and terribly
displeased critics. But no it definitely wasn't fortune that got this
over the line and beyond, 'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of The
Black Pearl' differs greatly from the others in many ways. The major
one being Depp's exceptional performance as the film's central
character: notorious, elusive, sly and unpredictable rogue Captain Jack
Sparrow. His unique portrayal turns what could have been yet another
classic specimen of a famous stereotype into a character that is
hilarious, charming, poignant and perplexing.The other cast members are also pitch-perfect, and some of them are
even better: Rush is wonderful as the cunning and horridly cruel
villain; Orlando and Keira are nothing outstanding and we feel that we
have seen their characters countless times before, but neverhteless
they do manage to pull off the pair of heroic lovers that they play
quite nicely; Jack Davenport is superb as the dutiful Commodore who
greatly despises piracy; Jonathan Pryce is decent as a cowardly
governor and the protective father of Keira's character;
Kevin.R.McNally is excellent in the role of an old companion of Jack's;
and the dynamic duo of Mackenzie Crook and Lee Arenberg are delightful
as two bumbling blundering pirate buddies under the the service of
Rush's character.The music is incredible, and greatly enhances the overall uplifting and
exciting feel of the film. The choreography of the action sequences are
outstanding, the special effects work beautifully, the costumes are
very well designed as are the sets...This is my equal-third favourite film, with the other two being
'Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest' and 'Pirates of the
Caribbean: At World's End'. I really sincerely do mean that, no other
of my reviews says this. I just hope that i have given this film the
vast quantity of praise that it deserves.It completely shatters the Walt Disney Company's reputation for being
able to create only babyish kids cartoons and similar live action
movies. Though it is still a bold and daring little company that
thrives on risky endeavours, like the dazzling 'Snow White and the
Seven Dwarfs', such as this.

******
21 June 2007
10
I wasn't quite sure how this film would fare with audiences back in
2003 since it was based on an amusement park ride, but Jerry
Bruckheimer produces. With the box-office bomb of "The Country Bears
(2002)", no one could have expected the great box office sales of this
film.The starring roles were excellent as well, with Johnny Depp in the lead
playing Jack Sperrow, Captain of the Black Pearl. Orlando Bloom
starring as Will Turner, a blacksmith; and Keira Knightley as the
beautiful Elizabeth Swann.Johnny Depp plays a magnificent pirate, and was even nominated for Best
Actor at the 2004 Academy Awards (but lost). It was an excellent film,
but the producers were unsure about making a sequel until it made over
$300 million in ticket sales.

******
24 May 2007
10
I wasn't at first interested in seeing this movie. But since a few of
my friends where interested and asked me If I wanted to go with them to
see it, I figured I should since the ones that asks me to go I hardly
get a chance to hang out with.I found every moment of this movie to be excellent.Although I was unaware of whom the actors where, I found the
performances to be excellent.Each actor and actress gives a great scope of the charitors and are
quite believable.Some people that saw the movie might say that it is a bit boring
because there is more dialog then action. Or because they expected it
to be action packed. But just because it isn't action packed doesn't
make it a bad movie.The action is mostly at the end and the action scenes and special
effects where great.There is absolutely no reason for anyone to have hated this film.

******
24 May 2007
10
It's now almost four years ago that this movie came out and it's still
my favourite movie ever! I just love the light-hearted, humorous and
adventurous context which stands in total contrast to the sequels which
are darker and more epic.The humour in Pirates is brilliant - snarky, sarcastic and the running
gags are also working very well. I especially adore Barbossa's monkey
Jack (who will get more action in the third part!) But - as everyone
else must admit - the real highlight of the whole trilogy is our dear
Captain Jack Sparrow - played most brilliantly by Johnny Depp. I can't
even say how much I love the character he created! His way to walk, to
talk, to drink and to manipulate everyone else without them having the
slightest clue as to what really are his motives has completely blown
me away. Johnny Depp sure gave the performance of his life with this
role and I'm still so very, very mad at the fact that he didn't get an
Oscar for this achievement. Sure, Sean Penn is also a great actor, but
the fact still remains, that without Johnny Depp we would have never
gotten to know our beloved Captain Jack. No one else would have played
him like this and he really created something on his own, instead of
simply reading the script and doing it in the straightest way possible.
And that's why he should have gotten an Oscar! - But hey, there's still
hope for the third part!

******
8 May 2007
10
This is one of the best movies i've ever seen. After this movie I
bought up all the Johnny Depp movies i could. Became a huge fan of his
work. This is a definite pleaser when it comes to adventure! Johnny
Depp played this part extremely well and no one else could do it like
him. By putting a lot of himself in his work, he brought the character
of Captain Jack Sparrow to life. Extremely well done by all the
supporting actors and actresses. Bloom and Knightley has done a
fantastic job playing their characters as well. Gore did an amazing job
directing the film. The sequels are sure to be some of the biggest hits
in box office history.

******
28 December 2006
8
In the eighteen century, in the West Indies of the Caribbean Sea, there
roamed a magnificent seafaring group of individuals who prided
themselves in not only creating an adventurous and certainly idealistic
way of life, but enamored a secondary generation to emulate their deeds
centuries after their demise. They became known as The Pirates of the
Caribbean. Today, the Disney group is satisfying the demand of the
visual interpretation of said pirates. Reflecting and certainly echoing
their traditional exploits is Disney's film version of the same name.
In this film, Johnny Depp, is fabulous as Captain Jack Sparrow. This
individual is a small package filled with more excitement than a barrel
of gunpowder. Throughout this film he consistently invites the viewer
to follow him from multiple escapes, duels with sword makers, damsels
in distress and British Soldiers from the port-cities and market towns,
in search of a cursed ship called The Black Pearl. Strewn throughout
this adventure are Depps' fellow actors which include, Geoffrey Rush as
Barbossa, Orlando Bloom who is superb as Will Turner, Jack Davenport as
Norrington and Keira Knightley, as Elizabeth Swann whom seems at times
incongruous and out of place as the precursor of a modern feminist.
Despite the awesome, incredible, often ideal locations and speculator
scenery, studded with everything, but the essentials allowing the film
lack to resolution for Sparrow or the viewer. Often we anticipate
either, to be thrust into yet another hair-raising adventure or a ghost
chasing episode which is setting itself up for a further sequel. Thus
despite it's wondrous appeal, and Sparrow's ever changing destiny and
demeanor, ( which by the way is a bit, effeminate, the film lacks
adhesion to either traditional pirates or to their eventuality. In the
end, it's a good film, which insists on re-creating itself again and
again. ****

******
23 July 2006
8
I have just watched the original Pirates of the Caribbean for the third
time. The first time was in the theater in '03, and the second time was
when my brother bought the DVD in '04. While the first viewing was fun,
I remember the second viewing as rather pedestrian. But I'm glad I
watched it again now (after having seen and enjoyed the sequel),
because I wasn't bored for a second of it. The dialog is sharp and
funny (at times even intelligent), the story progresses very well, and
the production values are top of the line (even if '03 CGI looks dated
now - but by "production values" I mostly mean the beautiful sets and
environments).I was struck by how much of the action of the sequel is prefigured in
the original movie, and how some puzzling details that are explained in
the sequel were never revealed in the first movie (such as the "compass
that doesn't point north", which only in the sequel is revealed to be
pointing at what the holder most desires).So while I originally rated the first (and the second) movie a 7 out of
10, I will now emend that to an 8, for both movies. They're a couple of
great romps, packed with action, ideas, characterization and eye candy.The third movie, unfortunately, was a huge disappointment for me... :-(

******
16 July 2006
8
When I saw this movie, I was surprised ---no--- out right stunned as to
the kind of movie that could be made based off of a Disney ride. This
isn't some simple point "A" to point "B" plot, these characters aren't
mechanical merry-men and the score isn't the work of some back-stage
maestro on a keyboard. Everything about this movie was incredible and
surprising, and the more I watched it the greater it seemed to become.The acting of this film was outstanding, with a full and able a cast as
could be wanted. The greatest was, of course, Johnny Depp's
performance. He always chooses very quirky, very unique and singular,
characters to play, and Captain Jack Sparrow fits Depp's natural
tendencies. He's a quirky and awkward character who acts as if in a
perpetual drunken and ataxic stagger. Accompanied with typically
slurred words and uncomfortable body language, this would, in the hands
of most other actors, be an awkward and uneven performance. But Depp
pulls it off flawlessly in this striking and memorable addition to his
acting repertoire.Orlando Bloom, fresh off of his work as The Lord of the Ring's Legolas
Greenleaf, plays the blacksmith William Turner, and easily holds his
own next to Depp. While his part is not nearly so... colorful... it is,
nonetheless, equally memorable. He is a believable performer who has
noticeably grown from his Lord of the Rings performance. He acts as the
antithesis of Depp's character; a serious and emotional individual to
contrast with Depp's quirky and aloof character.This, personally, is my favorite performance of Kiera Knightley's, even
overshadowing her Oscar-nominated performance in 2005's Pride &
Prejudice. While this role is clearly not meant to showcase her
talents, nor is it as necessarily deep or spotlighted as Elizabeth
Bennet's, it is a clear and charming performance. She takes on a
somewhat comedic supporting role and really shine in it. Her timing
matches up well with her costars'; her comedic delivery leaves nothing
to be desired. She's rather impressive in a role that could have become
another "damsel in distress" awaiting rescuing in the hands of a lesser
actress.The remainder supporting cast all deserve mention for their talents.
Geoffrey Rush shines marvelously as the villainous Captain Barbossa,
Jack Davenport gives a stiff yet convincing performance as Commodore
Norington and Jonathon Pryce give a light comedic performance as
Governor Swan. Even David Bailie and Lee Arenberg played pleasant
comedic performances as Cotten and Pintel, despite also playing the
parts of decent villains.The score was absolutely outstanding, a singular masterpiece all its
own. Every song, every line, every measure, every note, is so striking
that by simply listening to the score on its own you can tell exactly
what part of the movie would be playing alongside it. It stands as one
of my favorite movie scores, and Klaus Badelt has nestled himself along
such greats as John Williams, Howard Shore, Danny Elfman and Elmer
Bernstein. I personally preferred it to Return of the King's score
(Which is really, really saying something, as that was a masterful
composition), and the fact that this wasn't even NOMINATED for best
score is a travesty to the history of the Academy Awards.Visually, it was outstanding. The special effects for the undead pirate
crew were pretty impressive. But they weren't overly obtrusive; for how
obvious they were, the effects were actually rather subtle still. The
only part where they become a little hokey is when Kiera Knightley's
launched into the air on a sort of trampoline. Other than that, the
effect were flawless.Overall, this is an excellent movie; perfect for families, action fans,
comedy fans and fans of any of the main actors/actresses. It is
certainly deserving of all the praise it's received as well as it's
position on the IMDb top 250 (currently 237). This is a surprising gem
of a movie, and one that it's quite difficult to find a person who
absolutely dislikes it. It's a very safe movie to recommend to
everybody.

******
7 July 2006
10
I'll admit, I didn't know much about Johnny Depp before I saw this
movie back in 2004, a year after it came out. But now hes my favorite
actor. It is probably one of my favorites because of great acting from
Depp, Bloom, and Knightley. I also enjoyed how there are the different
scenes from the ride at Disney land/world. Cpt. Barbossa (played by
Geoffrey Rush) was by far my favorite villain of all times. I honestly
cant think of any weaknesses in the movie what so ever other than the
CG isn't up to date anymore. Over all I think that the entire cast
deserves three flaming thumbs up(if thats possible) I highly recommend
to everyone. I think I'll be Jack Sparrow this year for Halloween...

******
29 June 2006
10
what makes this film so genius? is it Orlando Bloom's sword fighting
skills and brilliant hat? no. Is it Kiera Knightley's comic moments
with the Comodore and her incredible corset? no. Or is it Johnny Depp
with a gun? HELL YEAH!!! an incredible movie well worth a watch for
anyone who is still a big kid at heart.Orlando Bloom delivers a
inspiring performance as our young love struck blacksmith oblivious to
his pirate ancestry while Kiera Knightley and Jack Davenport give the
film the light hearted comedy that keeps you laughing throughout. Onc
again outstanding performances from Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush set
of the tone of the movie and with it's many action scenes no-one can
say this film doesn't got out with a bang. and for all females reading
who can go wrong with having Johnny Depp, Jack Davenport and Orlando
Bloom in the same movie.this film really is complete genius. i only
have one thing left to say "Welcome to the Caribbean love."

******
23 April 2006
10
fans of Lord of the rings and star wars will love this movie. Excellent
job by Disney and the cast + crew. I am definitely going to see the
sequel. lots of things from the ride. I was never a fan of pirate
movies before I saw this. I think this is one of the best Disney movies
ever. Jhonny and Orlando work so well together. Action packed and funny
at the same time. If you haven't seen it yet go see it soon. Three
thumbs up. just an Excellent movie. One of the best movies ever. I am
now done with my summary. Good bye. thanks for reading.thanks,pjdlh815

******
23 April 2006
10
I saw the commercial for this film in the TV and I thought, Oh, I don't
want to see this movie it is way to scary. But my parents got it for me
at my birthday and I completely fell in love with the movie, its
characters and the humor. It has the wonderful mix of action, romance
and humor that only a few, too few, movies have. I have now seen it so
many times that I have stopped counting. I know must of the lines by
heart and I still thinks it's a brilliant movie even when I know the
ending. Johnny Depp is a brilliant actor and even when he's not in
focus he completely steals the picture. Keira Knightley is gorgeous and
Orlando Bloom is so handsome, but Johnny is the true star in this movie
you just have to see. I will recommend the commentaries on the movie,
some of them are really entertaining. So see it again and again and
again.

******
12 April 2006
10
This is by far one of the best movies in my collection of DVD's.
Pirates of the Caribbean is the best rendition of a traditional pirate
movie plus all the special effects and budgets of our day and age.
Johnny Depp was the absolute perfect character to play Jack Sparrow and
Orlando Bloom couldn't have played the part of Will Turner any better.
The casting crew did their homework and compiled and all-star team of
actors and really knocked this movie out of the park. I gave this movie
10 out of 10 because there isn't any other pirate movie out there in
the market to compare this one with. Better yet, I haven't seen a
pirate movie at all that was worth anything except this one and I must
say, I have been duly spoiled by it. I hope they come out with a
sequel, because I can guarantee you that I will be one of the guys
waiting outside the theater just to be the first one in.

******
4 April 2006
10
This movie is awesome!Johnny Depp is brilliant and very funny! Orlando
Bloom does a nice job of Will turner and Keira Knightly was excellent
as Liz swan. Amazing action scenes and brilliant sets, this movie has
it all. Good directing by Gore Verbinski and well done acting! This
movie is recommended for all pirate lovers and other people who just
like movies with loads of good actors. Johnny Depp is by far my best
actor, but that does not mean that the others aren't. This movie is
probably one of the best in the world and is very, very well done. The
ships and battles are incredible. The ghosts are very realistic and
funny (the guy with the glass eye) and a amazing sword duel to finish.
Outstanding!

******
19 March 2006
10
I love this movie. It among my top ten.Why do I love it so much? Well, for one thing, the Johnny Depp is one
of the best actors in the film. He always comes through with a funny
moment and provides comic relief.Also, the plot line, while a bit confusing, was clever and original.
There were no holes in it and the plot was tied up.Also, many of the minor characters in their own way were funny.Finally, I thought the ending (which I won't tell you about) was also
clever.Plus, you know, johnny+eyeliner=yum :-) <3

******
12 March 2006
10
This is one of my all-time favorite films! What can I say? They did a
wonderful job with this film, throwing in an awesome mix to make a
story that would appeal to nearly anyone who enjoys a good movie.The casting was fantastic and spot on. Johnny Depp was Exceptional- no
body could have played the role of Jack Sparrow better. I just smiled
throughout the whole thing, because his performance was so fantastic.
His wit was great and the one-liners were completely memorable.Orlando Bloom made excellent eye-candy, and Keira Knightley was as
gorgeous as ever and played an excellent role. Geoffry Rush played his
role with as much ease as Depp and really did the whole bad-guy thing
well! The action was fantastic- the fantasy side was enjoyable. The jokes
were great, and the special effects were also A+. I could watch this
over and over again, and still get the same great feeling from it.
There aren't a lot of pirate films out there, but this is by far the
best there is.Certainly deserving of many sequels and I would definitely recommend it
to buy and keep on DVD.

******
9 March 2006
10
Ahoi there!!! "Pirates of the Caribbean: the Curse of the Black Pearl"
is one of the most funny, exiting, action-filled, spectacular
masterpiece of this genre! One thing over all: Johnny Depp! He is
simply fantastic acting as the pirate Jack Sparrow. I consider him one
of the best actors of all times because he is always perfect in almost
every role (thanks to Tim Burton that discovered him!). Jack Sparrow is
incredible, funny and strange, the perfect buccaneer for a movie like
that. Good performance from Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley too. The
photography, the sets, are perfect, and you can feel all the "salty"
feeling of the Caribbeans in the whole movie. The story is good: a good
mix of adventure and mystery, filled with action, explosions, and naval
battles. The extra contents on the DVD shows how they have bought to
life all that magic! The soundtrack is epic and it fit perfectly in the
movie, thanks to Klaus Badelt, a real artist. In conclusion, this is an
adventure masterpiece, incredibly entertaining for everyone who have a
little pirate-child inside! HARRR..... where's my bottle of rum???

******
8 March 2006
10
This film was the best film I have ever seen I was over the moon when I
found out they were making another one!!! Johnny Depp,Keira Knightley
and Orlando Bloom were definitely the right people to choose to make
this such a great film. The plot of the storyline is excellent but i am
a bit worried that the next one will not be as good although i will
still look forward to it and seeing all our favourite characters again
whoa!!! The creators of this film were so lucky to have worked with
such talented people.I just thought i would say that there is one mistake, near the
beginning they tie Johhny Depps hand s together with iron bar thing but
when he slides down the rope he puts his hands down the bar an in real
life he would not be able to do that!!!

******
3 February 2006
10
Johny deep is a work of art he's like the Mona Lisa of acting. Orlando
bloom,Geoffry Rush and Kiera Knightly are very good supporting
actors.but jack sparrow is the sturdiest yet smartest person I have
ever seen It' is an extremely funny movie and deserves to be in the top
one hundred.I do not think any body else could have played the part.my
hat of to you Johny deep.the rest of the crew as I said were very
smart.But th greatest part of the movie was he jack sailed in to the
docks right back at the start.Orlando Bloom has a very good role but I
do not think he is up to taking the lead role in a movie.Geoffry Rush
is a great evil man and would have been just as good as Johny and Kiera
knightly is developing into a good actress well done to pirates of the
Carribian

******
2 February 2006
10
Every time I watch this movie I enjoy it more. I see new things every
time. POTC is funny and heart warming. The hero's are flawed but
lovable. It has a lot of different stories going on and they are all
presented in an understandable way. It is just a fun enjoyable movie
and I think will be a classic Disney movie. I went to see it the first
time because the Lady Washington played the Interceptor and she was
built on the harbor where I live. I just was enamored with Johnny Depp
whom I had only vaguely heard of before. I am so glad I went to see it
I would have missed so much if I hadn't. I only saw it once on the big
screen and wish I had seen it more and I will get the chance with the
new ones coming out.

******
31 January 2006
10
Not too many could pull of a pirate movie like that. I'll be honest,
when i heard there was a pirate movie coming out, I laughed. Pirates?
Was the audience two-year old boys? I wouldn't have gone to see it if
my friend hadn't told me how good it was.The actors were phenomenal, and the script was so well written. Johnny
Depp gave an outstanding perfromance as the legendary Jack Sparrow. He
portrayed his character so well, a rough, take-no-crap tough man, but
somewhat sweet on the inside. Kiera Knightley had a character with same
same kind of personality as Jack (except not as happy-go-lucky while
drunk). Orlando Bloom, oh my gosh! I never thought I could find a man
with long hair sexy, but he just completely....ugh, it was great! His
acting, his character, his look, all fantastic. Please Hollywood, make more movies like this!

******
29 January 2006
10
Although when thought of a pirate movie was in the making i had my
doubts whether it would be a worthwhile movie 1 to watch or 2 to even
make, whether or not it was based on a Disney theme park ride or not.
But how i was wrong.With none stop brilliant acting throughout and a real smart dialogue
with the right amount of humour to not this into a comedy genre movie
was ideal. The real show stopper was off course the great Johnny Depp
who up to now in my opinion has never played apoor role.The way he move
and most definitely talks is perfect and in my opinion no one else
could have played the character as good as he, he was seriously a joy
to watch. With great help from the all star cast or Bloom, Rush and off
course Knightley the film started and ended with absolute flying
colours.The best thing in this movie is the way that the zombie pirates of the
black pearl are portrayed and in my opinion a bliss to watch. I feel
that every one should watch this movie and if they don't should be
cursed to being in a zombie state themselves.Ps that last line was a joke.

******
16 January 2006
10
I adore this film because it has everything, sun, sea and Johnny Depp
(Orlando and Keira for those of you who don't share my passion.)I was
ABSOLUTELY astounded to watch this slip by any Oscars although Depp
received a few minor awards. Totally first class acting from the man as
the irresistible Captain Jack Sparrow, loosely based on Keith Richards.Sparrow swaggers and burbles his rum-soaked self across the Caribbean
on a quest to reclaim his beloved ship the Black Pearl from his
mutinous first mate Barbossa and involves young Will Turner (Orlando B)
who's trying to win over Elizabeth Swan (Keira K). So follows the most
exciting and funny adventure on the seven seas with some really great
quotes.If you haven't seen this already I'm shocked and suggest you go out and
buy it now (you'll want it in hard copy, trust me.) Potc2:Dead Man's
Chest London release is 7th July 2006 and they are in the process of
filming Potc3. Long live Captain Jack Sparrow.

******
7 January 2006
3
It figures that Johnny Depp would, for years, reject offers to star in
commercial filth produced from the bowels of Hollywood in an effort to
distinguish himself from other "pretty boy" actors, take on daring film
roles such as in "What's Eating Gilbert Grape," and then only achieve
worldwide superstardom for finally bowing out and performing in a
terrible Disney film produced by a socialist bottom-feeder who churns
out the same reptitive crap from untalented hack directors on a daily
basis.Yes, I'm talking about Jerry Bruckheimer. Depp should have never
answered the telephone. He should have instead read the script for a
low-budget indie film and persevered. Now, he's hot stuff. He's got his
name on high-profile sequels, remakes, and childish epics of silly
proportions.Congratulations, Johnny. You did it. You finally sold out to the
conglomerate Hollywood. You whored yourself out. And guess what? It
worked. You sold your soul to the Devil and now you're famous.I only have one question. Was it really worth it? I hope so.

******
4 January 2006
10
I can not think of a better person to play Jack Sparrow than Johnny
Depp. The part was made for him. Keira Knightley plays the part of
Elizabeth excellently and Orlando Bloom did a great job with Will
Turner. There is a lot of comedy in the movie, most of it coming from
Johnny Depp. There is a part near the start of the movie when Depp
comes sailing into Port Royal in a sinking boat and by the time the
boat gets to the platform it is just at the right height for Depp to
step onto the platform from the crows nest. There is also a thing
called the Pirates code that the Pirates will never break, however
Captain Barbossa always finds loopholes in the code. I could never get
tired of watching this movie

******
3 January 2006
10
Set in the 17th century, a time where Pirates ruled the Caribbean, we
meet Jack Sparrow (Depp) an unpredictable pirate and Will Turner
(Bloom) and honest blacksmith who loves the governors daughter
Elizabeth Swann (Knightly). When Miss Swann is captured by the evil
Captain Barbossa (Rush) and his crew of treacherous pirates who plan to
use Elizabeth and her necklace to lift their curse, Will seeks out Jack
and the mismatched pair go after Elizabeth, the Black Pearl (Barbossa's
ship), adventure and revenge together. This movie is a great movie with
fun for all the family. Johnny Depp really brings the film to life with
his fantastic humour and great acting. Everything fits and the special
affects are great. Watch it if you enjoy action movies with humour such
as the Mummy Returns.

******
28 December 2005
10
The first time I watched this movie was sometime during the summer of
2003. I read about it a bit, heard about it from a friend, and decided
it sounded like a nice movie, so I might as well go watch it. And at
first, I came out thinking it was a nice movie, nothing more. But I had
watched it again later. And again. And again. And you could say the
movie grew on me, because while I admit this isn't the best film ever
made, it is my favorite movie.So what makes this so great? It's fun. I can watch it many times over
and over and never grow tired of it. Be it the incredible fight scenes,
the captivating scenery, the rich and amusing dialogue, the interesting
plot line, or the unbelievable acting, something about this movie never
bores me and just has me watching it again and again. I have seen the
Star Wars movies many times, and can find myself growing bored while
watching them. I have seen the Indiana Jones films many times, and
lately found myself beginning to grow a bit bored while watching them
(they are still enormous fun, though). I have seen Pirates more than
any of the previous films, and never once have I been bored with it.
Too often I catch it on the TV, sit down to watch a favorite scene, and
stick on for the rest of the movie. It simply never gets old, and it's
just as fun to watch it the tenth time as it is to watch it the first
time.Part of the reason for it is, I suppose, that the movie doesn't really
rely much on its plot to progress. Sure, it has a good, solid and
interesting plot: the town of Port Royal is attacked by the cursed
pirate ship, the Black Pearl, captained by the vile captain Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush). Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), daughter of the
governor of Port Royal, is kidnapped by the pirates due to a certain
medallion she possesses and the name she gives the pirates as her own.
Young Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), the local blacksmith who has a
secret love for Elizabeth, goes to rescue her and enlists to his help
captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), who has his own plans regarding
Will, the Black Pearl and Barbossa. It is interesting to see how the
plot develops, but what really holds you are the magnificent scenes
that come one after another. Whether it's the amazing sword fights
(such as the early fight between Will and Jack, an extremely
well-choreographed and amusing clash), the naval battles (fire all
cannons, arr!) or the stellar performance by Johnny Depp, each scene is
as captivating as the previous.I have mentioned all the good things in this movie (and yes, there are
a lot of them), but the absolute best is the acting: Bloom and
Knightley are good as Will and Elizabeth, each portraying their
characters personalities extremely well, and you can believe that the
two care about each other. Geoffrey Rush is extremely captivating as
the villainous captain Barbossa. He manages to look, feel and sound
like a true villain (even adding a little "arr!" here and there) while
still having us believe that Barbossa is a human after all, with
motives and feelings. You can understand why he's doing what he's doing
in the movie. And as for why he's a pirate - that's what rotten
scalawags such as him do. The true star of this movie, though, is
Johnny Depp. Jack Sparrow is incredible - he acts a bit drunk and a bit
crazy (to the extent where you hardly see the difference when he
actually is drunk!), yet he is also cunning, intelligent and
thoughtful. He is also amusing to no end, dishing out funny lines one
after another, while maintaining to remain serious when the time calls
for it. Depp's acting in this movie is truly the best I have ever seen
in my opinion, and I believe to this day that he has been robbed of his
rightful Oscar.And finally, I can't help but mention, that simply the fact that this
is a pirate movie makes it so fun. Pirates are fun, and I am really
interested in pirates. This film may not give a historically accurate
version of piracy (I don't recall undead pirates ever mentioned in
history books) but it's still fun, and gives you everything you need
when it comes to the romanticized view of pirates that's so dominant in
today's modern culture.Jack Sparrow says at one time during the movie: "Not all treasure is
silver and gold, mate." and this is especially true of this film.
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is treasure.
It's a captivating, enriching experience. You'll come out with a smile
on your face, and the mood for swashbuckling. Anyone who hasn't watched
it yet, hurry up and do. Anyone who has, go watch it again. It's worth
it. I'd give it 11 out of 10 if only I could. ARR!!

******
27 December 2005
10
Let me start off by saying I LOVE THIS MOVIE! and johnny depp! i love
him too! (alot) but anyway. i'm so glad i found this website. i new
that there was supposed to be another Pirates Of The Johnny Depp (so i
call it lol) but i didn't know like all the details and stuff. and i
also didn't know about the third one! i'm so excited about it! wow! i
better not die within the next two years.. that would suck so bad! i
kinda feel like a loser for obsessing over this movie so much but now
that i found this site i feel like i fit right in (not calling anyone a
loser or anything lol..) well i'll comment back later or something.
RoCk On PiRaTeS oF tHe JoHnNy DePp!!!

******
24 December 2005
10
I thought that this movie was sooooooo good. I love Johnny and Orlando
so it all worked out for me. Jack Sparrow is known for being a
trouble-maker, thief, and and impersonator. When he comes to Port
Royal, He comes across the Govoner's daughter, who is in the possession
of a piece of Aztec Gold, he is concocting a plan of attack. With the
help of Will Turner(Orlando Bloom) they set out to retrieve
Elizabeth(Kiera Knightly). They go to the secret hiding place of the
"cursed pirates" and watch as they sacrifice the blood of Elizabeth. In
the end the "cursed pirates" are cursed no longer, thanks to the great
fighting skills of Jack and Will. All Johnny and Orlando fans should
see this movie and the movies to come.

******
11 December 2005
10
"Pirates of the Caribbean the curse of the Black Pearl" is the best
movie I've ever seen. In this film there are: a cursed ship, the Black
Pearl,with a cursed crew; a charming, fascinating, romantic, wonderful,
clever, smart pirate, Jack Sparrow, (Johnny Depp); a proudly and lover
blacksmith, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom); a lovely, beautiful Governor's
daughter, Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley); and a perfidious,
horrible, ironic captain of the cursed crew, Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush).
To notice the perfect performance of Johnny Depp (Oscar nomination),
and Geoffrey Rush's performance, too. The director of the film is Gore
Verbinski (THE RING), and the producer is Jerry Bruckheimer (PEARL
HARBOR). The scores are perfectly for this movie and they are
absolutely amazing. All in this film is wonderful, but not so wonderful
as Jack Sparrow! I love him! The best interpretation of Johnny Depp,
his most popular character, which includes his first nomination at the
Academy Awards. He is so perfect!

******
8 December 2005
10
This movie is my favorite movie of all times! It's full of action and
is not a scary pirate movie. I have watched it many times and I can't
get enough of it. The actors/actresses are great in this movie. Johnny
Depp is especially good with his facial expressions. I am eagerly
waiting for the release of the second and third movies. I have bought
the DVD and the soundtrack. The soundtrack to this movie is also really
good and the only soundtrack I have ever bought.In this movie Will Turner(Orlando Bloom) and Jack Sparrow(Johnny Depp)
must sail in search of the Black Pearl, where Elizabeth Swann(Kiera
Knightly) has been held captive. The Black Pearl is under the control
of Captain Barbossa(Geoffrey Rush) and his crew of cursed pirates.This movie has a great plot and is continuously exciting. Also there
are many memorable scenes and quotes. If you have not seen this movie
then you are missing out on a great movie.

******
3 December 2005
8
Ever played Monkey Island? This film is a pirate movie in true Monkey
Island style. In case you've never played that game it means lot of
fun, crazy pirates, a beautiful lady and a bunch of zombie like
pirates.First of all the story is good. The whole love thing is simple and not
original, but who cares?! It works and the setting, characters and the
whole curse thing spices up the story a lot and makes it very
interesting. The dialog is very nice. It's funny, but not all too
funny. That keeps the focus on the story. The characters are good and
they work well together creating contrasts and showing development
through the film.Johnny Depp is very good. He pulls off this whole pirate act really
good and manage to take on an English accent. Orlando Bloom is nothing
worse. His performance in believable and good. All together the cast is
strong and preform very well. The use of English actors makes the whole
thing more believable.The effects are well done. In the beginning you'll see some not exactly
impressive CGI, but the rest is much better. The skeletons looks good
and the explosions too. The fights are well coordinated and the rhythm
of the fencing in the blacksmiths workshop is really nice.The music is also good. It's piraty and gets you in the mood. It builds
up around the action and fits the movie very well. You don't pay
attention too it, witch is a good thing. It means it fits the movie and
the action and subconscious just affects your feelings like it should.It's a good looking movie, meaning the cinematography is good. The
composition is good and so is the lightning. No shots stood out as
extraordinary, but no one stood out as bad neither. It's nice shooting
with some playful shots here and there and all together good
cinematography.The sets and decorations also make this movie good looking. The mix of
CGI and real stuff is good and the look of the costumes and the
settings are believable and nice.All together I was pleasantly surprised by this movie. It was way
better than I expected. It added a lot of comedy, but still focused on
the story and managed to remain serious. I would definitely recommend
this movie if your looking for a high quality, cool and funny adventure
movie to watch.

******
5 November 2005
9
This movie was everything a great pirate movie should be, and more!
Instead of adding more praise and point out some flaws, which previous
reviewers have already done, I will say this: Johnny Depp may be the
coolest character that sweeps you away but Geoffrey Rush is actually
the better pirate. You will realize this during the scene where Barbosa points exactly the
same out to Sparrow. The bottom line: Sparrow has a heart and cares
about doing the right thing while Barbosa is one evil son of a b***
who'd sell his own mother if it would make him a profit.Oh, and the true star of this movie, of course: The Pirates! I felt so
sorry for them in the end. But looking at the sequel currently in
production and seeing the names of supporting cast, perhaps I have
nothing to worry about.

******
20 July 2003
3

    This movie was one of the most boring movies that I have seen this year.
 It was slow paced the whole movie with little to no action at all.  The
movie was about a half hour too long and none of the characters were
likeable other than Orlando Bloom's character.  Two disappointing thumbs
down!!!!!!!!!!!

******
24 August 2008
9
As everyone here can see, many of the comments about this movie is
positive. The Writing was excellent and i can give it a 9/10 for just
its writing. There are tricks and twists in this story. Hence, for
those who have not vote, watch this movie again and concentrate with
their actors and the script. I am sure that, you are going to enjoy
this movie for the next round. I think there will be another movie
coming out for this, hence i encourage everyone of you to watch it.
Although not a classic piece of film-making, the movie was never
intended to be such and did exactly what it intended to do - entertain.
The make-up and costumes for the pirates were very well done and most
of those same pirates were very well played. The town of Tortuga and
the ships were also quite impressive. Geoffrey Rush was very good in
his role as Barbossa, although perhaps he should have been more evil.
Jack Davenport and Jonathan Pryce were very good in their roles as
Commander Norrington and Governor Swann. However, as already mentioned
a million times, Johnny Depp completely steals the show with his wacky
performance as Captain Jack Sparrow. This character should have been
pretty one-dimensional but instead he's larger than life. Sparrow is a
very memorable character. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley had perhaps
the two worst performances in this movie. Their characters were so flat
that one truly doesn't care what happens to them. Looking handsome or
pretty just doesn't cut it. Another complaint is the extended scenes
involving fights with skeletons. Although the CGI pirates were
impressive, the fight sequences near the end go on far too long. That
said, the movie is still surprisingly good and very entertaining.

******
20 August 2008
9
This is one of the best movies i've seen in a long time. Each actor did
a great job. But the one that really stands out it is good old Johnny D
not to mention he's hot but he has a lot of talent. his portrayol of
capt. jack sparrow is what makes this such a great movie to watch he's
funny charming and witty. my suggestion is to go out and buy the DVD.
it has a whole CD of special fetures that are just as good as the film.
I rate this movie 9/10. The extras on DVD are fantasticE to get it, it
will be WELL worth the money, you will not be disappointed one bit. I
have seen it MANY MANY times and I still find it funny, it REALLY is a
must see film. The only problem with this movie is Orlando Bloom and
Kiera Knightley. Too much screen time for such unimportant story lines.
Pirates should have just been more on Captain Jack Sparrow and less on
the sickly love birds. It doesn't add much to the story.

******
9 December 2007
10
oh my god i love P.O.T.C, it is such a clever film. Johnny Depp is the
perfect casting choice as Jack Sparrow. he is really funny, and plays
the part really well. i know some people will hate me for this but
Orlando Bloom really annoys me in this film and i know he plays the
part well Bla Bla Bla, i just don't like him.it has such a good storyline and they perform it so well. i must have
watched the film at least 10 times now and i am getting a bit tired of
it but it is still one of the best films out there. i wasn't sure when
i heard about the trilogy, but when i had seen all three of the films i
was totally hooked. usually films get a bit boring if you have such
high expectations but the next 2 films were just as good. Keira
Knightley plays the part of Elizabeth Swan really well too. she really
helps make the film as good as it is.it is a masterpiece of a film and everything about it is brilliant. it
is a film for the whole family to enjoy and i know for certain all of
mine enjoyed it. i would recommend it to anyone. 10/10 definitely.

******
9 July 2006
8
For some time now I have been putting this movie down because it didn't
seem to appealing to me when I first heard about it. Now, I know, I was
so wrong to say I didn't want to see it. One reason was because I knew
the sequel was on the horizon and that I felt I should see the first in
order to get a sense of what Pirates was all about. I loved just about
every aspect of this film. The acting was great and the story had so
much to tell that I never felt like the film was long just for the sake
of being long. Johnny Depp played a great pirate and so did Orlando
Bloom, only in the latter part did he really shine though. The story is
pretty simple but is an old tale that people of all ages will react to,
for some time, as they always have. The effects were not over the top
and they were done to a point where I thought I wouldn't care if I
could tell the difference between live action and CG. The only thing I
felt to be off balance was some of the Disney dumbness, that plagues
most Disney movies and was probably put in at the request of Disney to
make it more audience friendly. Overall I felt that I saw a movie and
not some action flick with no backbone....ie(STORY). When I was
finished, the movie gave me a sense of pride I have not had in a long
time when I watch film. I have seen something I will never forget.

******
20 June 2006
9
Yes, yes, yes! A gorgeous swashbuckling rouge, pirates, monsters, a
damsel not so much in distress and a monkey. How could anyone resist
it? One of the most entertaining films i've ever watched. It's smart,
funny, engaging, exciting and it's fun! One of the rare films where you
are actually taken on adventure.You admire and love Jack, you feel sympathy for the villains. You want
to be a part of this world. It somehow manages to touch the child
looking for adventure in everyone. A film you can watch again and again
and again...Capt. Jack Sparrow takes a podium on the eternal hall of fame for
heroes and his adventures I imagine will endure as long as Indy's.Bring me that horizon!

******
17 June 2006
9
OK, here we go... 2 years after initially seeing this movie, it finally
hit me. This movie should have been absolutely terrible. It had a
mediocre plot, terrible screen writing, Disney (which, at this point in
time, if it didn't have Pixar attached, it sucked). The initial
character development and interaction was contrived and shallow. So, why such a wonderful movie?Because of the people behind it. Everyone talks of Johnny Depp, whom i
will agree got robbed of a worthy Oscar that year. He is an excellent
actor, whom was hilarious and refreshing in what could have been a
cliché role. But, we cannot forget the ENTIRE cast. Geoffery Rush, once
again adding his own ingredient to a meal already been had, played a
devilishly enjoyable villain. Orlando Bloom gave us proof that he can,
in reality, handle dialog with other characters, and i believe
successfully broke the chance of possibly being type casted. Keira
Knightly added a visually stunning character, which would have been
understood from the beginning. But, she didn't allow her character to
fall into such an easy "no-so-damsel-in-distress" role, which has been
played again and again.In essence, it was the people involved that made it what it was. While
i'm concerned for the sequel, this is truly an adventure classic, with
very little cliché's, awesome and intriguing characters, beautiful and
fluent choreography, awesome set design, and most importantly, a
cliché' and boring plot/script in the hands of true talent, who were
able to break it from the Blockbuster purgatory that it was doomed to.

******
16 July 2003
10

WOW.It's not often I watch a whole movie with a smile on my face, but I did with
this one. It was a delight from start to finish, and I can't think of
anything bad to say about it aside from the fact that it bugs me that Jerry
Bruckheimer actually produced something I liked.Here's the top ten things I loved about this movie:1) Johnny Depp. A simply amazing, scene-stealing, MOVIE-stealing
performance. Pure genius.2) Restrained use of CGI. It was thrilling to see REAL PEOPLE swinging from
the ropes on those ships. And the CGI is effectively employed when it is
used, especially during the underwater march of the cursed
pirates.3) Johnny Depp.4) A great cast. Orlando Bloom doing an amazing impression of a young Errol
Flynn and holding his own in scenes with Depp. I look forward to watching
this guy's career. Geoffrey Rush doing a great job as the villain and making
him almost as fascinating as Depp's Jack Sparrow. And Keira Knightly as a
beautiful, smart, believably spunky heroine. Can't wait to see more of her!
Uh, I mean, in other movies. Acting. That's what I meant. What did you think
I meant? Get your mind out of the gutter. Oh, and Johnny Depp is great,
too!5) Everything you'd expect in a pirate movie, including a talking parrot, a
monkey, Spanish gold, a ship battle, a young hero of uncertain lineage, the
governor's daughter, walking the plank, "Avast!", "Davey Jones' Locker",
hats with big feathers in them...and yet it NEVER seems cliched.6) Johnny Depp.7) The exhilarating music.8) A movie without one use of the F-word, not to mention a restrained amount
of swearing since this IS a pirate movie. Oh, and no nudity or car chases or
buildings exploding. It is summer, isn't it?9) Amazing fight sequences; the early, acrobatic sword fight between Depp
and Bloom, and the ship battle, were stand-outs.10) Oh, yeah, and Johnny Depp is great! Did I mention that?I'm a big fan of the two recent Mummy films, and I think this one falls into
that category of enormously fun, endlessly entertaining adventure flicks.
There's nothing profound here, but hey, it's summer, and this movie is great
fun. This is one of the few times in my life when I've said this, but God, I
hope they do a sequel! 9/10

******
16 July 2003
7
Two reasons to see Curse of the Black Pearl (and I'm speaking more to
adults, kids will see just about anything they can get into
admission-wise) are the effects done on the crew of the Black Pearl,
and two performances amongst those that were OK but nothing special-
Geoffrey Rush as the taut, creepy captain of the Black Pearl, and
especially Johnny Depp as the somewhat unconventional captain Jack
Sparrow. On this site it's said that Depp patterned his character's
moves and voice after Keith Richards, which I can see, however my first
impression watching him was that he was basically playing Raoul Duke
from Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas in a pirates cap and with gold
fronts. This is indeed an original turn for Depp, even if we've seen
him do something like this before, and it helps when a persona is this
fresh in a story that counts the numbers a bit too often.Curse tells of a governor's daughter, Elizabeth, who is on the verge of
being married to an uptight British officer, despite to pining of
blacksmith Will Turner (LOTR's Orlando Bloom). When she is kidnapped by
a looting band of pirates one night, he enlists the help of imprisoned
Jack Sparrow to find her and the Black Pearl. But when the curse is
revealed to Elizabeth that's when things get suspenseful (to a degree). One thing that makes this a worthwhile time for the kids is that it's
the first PG-13 film from the Disney people, and though it might have
fared a higher calling if it was under a different studio with an R
rating, it can give them a chance to see some scenes parents may find a
little risqué. For instance, at one point Jack and Elizabeth are
stranded on an island (which is all I'll say as to not spoil it), and
he finds a stash of rum in a hiding place, and then the two get
hammered under the moonlight. Another instance is when the curse is
first revealed, once again under the moonlight, and this can be a
perfect introduction to the magic of zombies. The action scenes, however, are the weakest scenes of the film, which
is a let-down since there's some good choreography in the swordplay,
but there's just something about the way they go on that doesn't catch
the viewer in (at least me) like how other action scenes this summer
have. By the end of 'Curse', the audience can see it's nowhere near
greatness, but as popcorn fodder it is a pick of the moment. B-

******
29 July 2006
8
SPOILERS THROUGH:Well believe it or not I just saw this movie! Up till now I had no
desire to see it. I'm not a particular fan of pirate movies and not a
big fan of action/adventure type flicks(though that's been changing a
bit in the last few years.) But I have to admit I have been curious. So
many people I know have seen it and told me I am really missing out on
something special. So I did indeed see it this week. And the movie got
me! I thought it was excellent.As has been mentioned, the best part of the movie is Johnny Depp. Now
I'm not exactly a huge Depp fan. I appreciate him and do think he's an
amazing actor but have never taken to him as strongly as some other
actors. But I have to say, his portrayal of Jack Sparrow was brilliant
and easily the best role I've ever seen him in. Depp takes this role
and Creates an unforgettable history making movie character. His Sparow
is fun, funny, mischievous, lovable and quirky. He definitely made The
movie for me.And the cinematography is fantastic. The movie rippled with adventure
and drew the viewer in immediately. The campy fun atmosphere was
perfect as was the larger then life quality. If one's ever been on the
famous pirate ride, they will find things they recognize about it too.
And Bloom was very good as was Kneightly as the fiery pirate loving
Elizabeth. Perfect casting.The movie may have been a little long for me and I won't say there
weren't a few draggy moments but by and large this was a wonderful
adventurous ride and I really felt bad I didn't see it when I
originally came out though I'm not sure I'd have appreciated it as much
then, if I had. As mentioned, I had been gradually getting more into
these type of flicks and I think the more appreciation one has for the
action/Adventure film the more they will appreciate this though it is
the type of film one can enjoy without necessarily being a major fan of
pirates and sword fighting. The reason that is so, is because, simply
put, these characters are fun and different as is the movie and there
are moments of pure exhilaration. That's something that a good
adventure movie needs(actually almost any type of movie) and Pirates
has it. It is so utterly unique it isn't surprising to me now that it
has received so much recognition though I admit I didn't get it before
I saw it.Not that there were not some negatives. The biggest one is the length
of some of the sword fighting scenes. Some of them I thought, just went
on an unbearably long time, particularly the one toward the end. It did
get to the point where it really became a little numbing and unless one
is terribly into the sword fighting element I think a lot of people
might feel that way. I'm not sure how long the last sequence was but it
seemed like hours. I wish that had been a bit shorter. One scene I
loved though, was the fight between Depp and Bloom in the beginning.
That was excellent and one of my favorite scenes.So....I would give this an 8.5 out of 10 and can't wait to see Pirates
two which I will be doing very soon. I'd recommend this to anyone who
hasn't seen it and maybe Skeptical. It's a mighty fine time!!!!

******
15 April 2004
10

I must admit, this movie was pretty good. But, the ending was cheesy. As
Stephen King once said, "You can have a really good storyline, but it
isn't
as good as it could be because of the ending. After all, it's the ending
that matters most in a story. Without something special to wrap it up, the
story is worthless." With Pirates of the Caribbean, the storyboard
directors
should have been more choosy about what makes it in the movie. The ending
of
Pirates of the Caribbean makes it seem like the entire plot is a whole big
love story, even though romance was shown very little throughout the film.
Though, the hanging scene was good, the "As is mine" part wasn't
necessary.
Jack could've just thanked will and went on his way. And After Elizabeth's
dream and before Johnny comes in, it was rather boring. I mean who CARES
about Will and Elizabeth. It's setting up for a romance movie, when the
movie should make the audience focus on the cursed pirates and Captain
Jack,
which is after all the focus of the movie. They could've just shown the
part
where Elizabeth puts on the necklace, then opens the window showing Port
Royal. Then, the next part could be when Jack comes in on the boat. It
would
have kept the pirate theme alive, while still showing the movie from
Elizabeth's point of view. There was a lot of action in this movie, so it
should have ended shortly after a part with a lot of action. After the
pirates become cursed no longer, they could've had Jack become captain,
once
again, and end the movie there. It would have made the people leaving the
theater, thinking thet just came back from a really good pirate movie.
Instead, they just remember the final part, so they leave thinking, "That
had a really good love story in it." COMPLETELY forgetting about Will and
Captain Jack's huge sword fight and the climax of the 3rd act. The movie
was
overall good, but I would've tweaked it a bit to make it
perfect.

******
1 September 2003
2

This movie was awful.- No nice, big sets- Ugly costumes- Bad makeup (dark eyes)- No tension, no character development- Forseeable story line- Full of pirates cliches (parrot on shoulder)(Sorry for my bad english, I'm German)

******
3 April 2006
6
(Note: this review is from 2003.) In its fullest, "Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Curl" succeeds as entertainment. It
is one of the great adventure films of this year, jam-packed with
chills and thrills. It's a rousing swashbuckler with a great cast and a
great story. But, ranking in at 143 minutes, it goes overboard on
scenes a few times. Just a few.When "Pirates of the Caribbean" first opened, my Website was bombarded
with desperate letters from frenzied fans of the film, all asking me to
post a script for the film. It is perhaps the most requested script
I've ever had people write to me about. It's amazing what an impact a
film such as this can have.It stars Johnny Depp in the lead role as the infamous pirate Captain
Jack Sparrow, the worst pirate the film's Good Bad Guy has ever heard
of. "Ah, but you have heard of me," Jack says. Jack used to be the
captain of a deadly ship named the Black Pearl, before a mutiny took
place at the command of Barbosa (Geoffrey Rush), who left Jack for dead
on an island where he drank rum for three days and got a permanent case
of sea daze.But Jack survived, and now with the help of Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom), he will track down Barbosa and claim his ship back. Will is not
in it for the ship, however, but rather for the young girl, Elizabeth
(Keira Knightley), who was kidnapped by Barbosa in hopes of removing a
curse put upon him and his crew after they removed gold coins from a
cursed treasure chest. By the moon of the light, Barbosa and his idiot
crew turn into skeletons. They cannot die, they cannot feel pleasure.
They are "cursed pirates." First, they must restore all of the golden
coins to the treasure chest, then pour the blood of a Turner over the
stash of treasure. Captain Barbosa thinks that Elizabeth is the late
Bootstrap Bill Turner's daughter, but he never had one -- his single
child was a boy, and the boy is Will, who is coming to save Elizabeth
from a doom that he himself should be facing more than anyone.Confused? Don't be. When you watch the movie it will all make sense,
because it just does.The main element that carries along "Pirates of the Caribbean" well
past its expiration date is the casting of Johnny Depp in the role of
Jack Sparrow. In a constant drunken stupor and with a splendidly funny
rough British accent, Depp has finally hit payday in a mainstream
motion picture. He's been cast in cult favorites over the years,
specifically those directed by Tim Burton ("Edward Scissorhands," "Ed
Wood"), but he's been around since "A Nightmare on Elm Street" and
"Platoon." He hasn't exactly gotten major recognition over the years,
and though movie buffs know him by name, mainstream filmgoers probably
wouldn't recognize him at first. Not now, however. Now everyone's
jumping on the bandwagon. Depp, at forty, has finally gotten a
mainstream break.Also helping the film is Geoffrey Rush as Barbosa. He's a dastardly
villain with bad teeth and, we can only assume, bad breath. He's good
at being a bad guy, but because the film is rated PG-13, a big step
forward for Disney, he isn't allowed to be quite as vicious as he
probably would be. And, I can only assume, the rating prohibits him
from taking advantage of poor Elizabeth while she is held captive
aboard his ship....The movie's score is by Klaus Badelt, who has been getting his big
break lately with films such as "The Recruit." It's a good score that
fits the film's tone of pirates. Pirates are everywhere in this film,
and at one point a character remarks that it's good to be a pirate, or
something like that. I just wonder: If that's true, why does Disney
prohibit pirating of its films? Har, har."Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is one of the
better entertainments of the year, helped primarily because of a great
cast and witty script. But the character that will stay in your head
long after this is over, more than any other character in the film
(including Jonathan Pryce as Elizabeth's father, who I have not
mentioned before now and I think I should have), is Johnny Depp as Jack
Sparrow. He's going to go down in the books as one of those famous film
heroes. And what saves him from becoming another gung-ho hero is what
helped Harrison Ford make Indiana Jones so likable: He's an
apprehensive and cautious hero with wit and loads of dry humor and
funny one-liners to spare. He's not the type of hero who is necessarily
always looking out for the best because he wants to save the world, but
rather because he knows it's sort of his duty to do so. And he does so
with apprehension. It's a key to making a great screen hero, and Johnny
Depp succeeds where I can only assume most modern action heroes would
fail.Let's just hope the rumored, upcoming back-to-back sequels don't sink
to Davy Jones' Locker, eh?

******
23 January 2007
7
I very much enjoyed this movie the first time I saw it but lost
interest on the second viewing, for some reason. It's the usual Disney
adventure story which means the same good and bad traits I usually
find, namely:THE GOOD - Nice camera-work and very slick-looking on DVD. Interesting
characters, mostly here the ones played by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey
Rush. It's difficult to find a role in which Depp doesn't play someone
odd and/or fascinating. The story has a good mixture of drama, action,
suspense and humor. Keira Knightley is attractive as the female lead
and the story is interesting for the full 133 minutes (the last 10
minutes are ending credits.)THE BAD - Once again, the messages are "laws are made to be broken;"
"rebels in society are the good guys while authority figures are the
villains," and the girl wants the poor man over the rich man, etc. etc.
That all is so '60s clichéd by now, you'd think the Baby Boomers in
Hollywood would grow up, but apparently not. These traits are in almost
every film, including a worldly outlook on everything, which includes
glorifying occult nonsense. Disney will never change.OVERALL - A fun movie, thanks mainly to Depp, director Gore Verbnski
and his cameramen, and successful enough to spawn a sequel.

******
21 January 2004
6

After watching Pirates of the Caribbean last night, I was very surprised
to
see that it had
an IMDB rating of 8.0! Could THIS MOVIE really be one of the best 250
movies
ever
made?!? Then I looked at the voter breakdown, noticed that females gave it
an average
rating of 8.7, and the 1,041 females under 18 gave it a 9.5! Suddenly
things
started to
make sense. A little sense.*POSSIBLE SPOILERS BELOW*
Basically what we've got here is a pretty typical story. The rich
governor's
daughter loves
the poor blacksmith boy, and he with her, but she's supposed to marry the
military man.
The blacksmith boy is amazingly handsome, makes the most beautiful swords
that
you've ever seen, and is an amazing sword fighter, since he practices in
his
free time--
apparently against no one. The military man takes a role that's been
popular
in romantic
comedies lately. He's not a horrible, slimy jerk. He's just not the type
of
guy that women
want to marry. He's stuffy, always follows the rules, and there's nothing
the least bit
entertaining about him. Of course she ends up with the blacksmith.
Yawn.The story was incredibly predictable. The evil, vile pirates don't seem
that
evil and vile,
perhaps because they were given too many comedic gags. Additionally, their
fighting
scenes looked like some sort of a cheesy video game. They never really
seemed as real
or threatening as they should have.Bloom and the girl turn in average performances, as does Geoffrey Rush. I
was really
disappointed with that, as I expected him to really blow me away.
Unfortunately, he
either wasn't feeling it, or he didn't get adequate screentime.Johnny Depp was quite good. He really brought some fun to an otherwise
drab
movie.
Had it not been for Depp's performance, I don't think that this movie
would
have made
half of the money that it did. If you DO watch Pirates of the Caribbean,
watch it for Depp.6.5 of 10, rounded down to hopefully drag this thing out of the top 250.
:)

******
17 April 2005
3
The first thing I realized when I saw this film was that Disney is
running out of ideas for good films. I never thought they would be
resorted to base their films of rides in their amusement parks. It's a
pirate film with some good acting but Orlando Bloom proves yet again
that he can't act. After the daughter of the governor of an island in the Caribbean is
captured by mysterious pirates, only two people are able to save the
beloved Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley). These two men are Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom) and Pirate Capt. Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp).
Some how they are able to comender a British super vessel able to
navigate it across the ocean. The movie just went way to long, topping two hours and twenty minutes,
way to long for a Disney film. Jerry Bruckheimer adds tons of corny
lines and supposed battle scenes between undead pirates and British
Soldiers . Johnny Deep and Geoffery Rush do what they can with the
roles they're given. Their are some beautiful filmed scenes of the
ocean but their really isn't a story. I guess you could call this
entertaining for a nine year old but for anyone else it's just a yawn
fest. Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl. Starring:
Orlando Bloom, Johnny Depp, Geoffery Rush, Keira Knightley, and Jack
Davenport. 2 out of 5 Stars.

******
17 July 2015
8
I had watched pirates 1 on my phone two days ago and it just felt
awesome the visual effects are outstanding . The story was bit
different and the concept was totally different.The acting was great and the comedy done by all actors was good and
entertaining to watch. The direction was very good."Johnny Depp" is perfect for a arole of "Captain Jack Sparrow" and the
comedy done by him was outstanding.Other supporting cast were also good at their places. The movie was
very much fast pace and I like that.Overall the movie was awesome and worth watchable and bit
Unforgettable.

******
16 July 2015
8
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003): Dir:
Gore Verbinski / Cast: Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley,
Geoffrey Rush, Zoe Saldana: A celebration of pirate movies symbolizing
trouble when placing trust in the world. Jack Sparrow placed emphases
on his ship, the Black Pearl until his partner's betrayal. He is
sentenced to death until a pirate raid results in the kidnapping of the
Governor's daughter. They seek a medallion that can lift a curse.
Directed by Gore Verbinski who previously made The Ring and The
Mexican. He brings a sense of youthful enthusiasm that works. Johnny
Depp delivers a hilarious scene stealing performance as Sparrow.
Geoffrey Rush is fierce as his ex partner. He is the evil pirate leader
seeking the medallion. Its power is never properly explained but they
are seen as skeletons under the moonlight. Orlando Bloom plays a
weapons manufacturer. Keira Knightley goes beyond damsel in distress as
the Governor's daughter. She is involved in a mesmerizing sequence
where she is hurled aimlessly from skeleton to skeleton when she
realizes the horror that is upon her. It is obvious that she and Bloom
will unite. Zoe Saldana plays a female pirate who joins Bloom and sets
out to confront Sparrow for stealing her ship. Special effects are best
when the moonlight turns normality into a skeletal frame of relentless
horror. Score: 8 / 10

******
10 July 2015
8
Disregarding the bloated the carcass that has become the "Pirates of
the Caribbean" series helps restore the lustre to "Curse of the Black
Pearl". At least, it did for me. It's a rousing pirate adventure,
cleverly mixing battle scenes, humor and memorable characters. But it's
really built around Captain Jack Sparrow, which is a problem I had with
the later entries when the cast really got crowded and he was
(somewhat) sidelined. But he is the real magic here, and Depp plays the
character with mincing bug-eyed flair. He's a treat.Then again, so's the whole movie, especially bearing in mind that it's
a big effects movie spawned from a theme park ride. Let that sink in
for a moment, and this really has no business being so good. Like some
sort of mad science experiment in Anaheim that was never supposed to
work.Yet it totally does.8/10

******
22 January 2015
7
Blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) teams up with eccentric pirate
"Captain" Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) to save his love, the governor's
daughter, from Jack's former pirate allies, who are now undead.Although he has been around since the early 1980s, and has made such
great films as "Edward Scissorhands", this is now the role Depp is best
known for. And, as of now (2015) it may remain that way, as his career
seems to be in idle any time he appears as any other role (though his
Wolf in "Into the Woods" has its charms).Worth pointing out is how this film has one of the finest scores ever
recorded for a Hollywood movie. Even if the soundtrack existed and the
screen was blank, the film would deserve credit just for the score. Not
many films could claim this, but "Pirates" can.

******
10 November 2014
6
If you know Johnny Depp you'll know that this movie will be good in
some kind of way. He really makes the movie what it is in my opinion.
With his charm and all that. He can make a some kind serious movie
relay funny and that's why i like this movie.This movie combines humor that will have adults and children laughing ,
and although it is a bit scary at times, is not too scary for younger
children.I would say if you like pirates, Johnny Depp, or a good movie with
action, comedy and romance then you really should watch movie.If you
not see this film you miss this entertainment.

******
28 October 2014
8
Watched Pirates Of The Caribbean With Johnny Depp(Edward Scissorhands)
as Captain Jack Sparrow. Also Starring The Lovely Keira Knightley(Bend
Like Beckham) as Elizabeth Swann, Orlando Bloom(Lord Of The Rings ) as
Will Turner, Jack Davenport(The Talented Mr. Ripley) as Commodore
Norrington,Zoe Saldana(Crossroads) as Anamaria,Jonathan Pyrce(Brazil)
as Governor Weatherby Swann also Starring Geoffrey Rush(Les Miserable)
as Captain Hector Barbosa The Films Main Villain ,The Film was
Dramatic,Thrilling and Fun An Amazing performance from Johnny Depp as
the Witty Jack Sparrow also the film was the best pirate film to date
as it was mysterious and had an awesome seven seas vibe. I also enjoyed
how it got exciting as the film progressed, Amazing Costumes Design By
Penny Rose(King Arthur), Cinematography By Darius
Wolski(Gladiator),Musical Score By Klaus Badelt(K:19 The Widowmaker) ,
Screenplay by Ted Elliot(Aladdin) & Terry Rossio(Treasure Planet) and
Direction By Gore Verbinski(Mousehunt) One Of The best Action-Adventure
Film and Best out of all the Pirate Movies 8/10

******
18 August 2014
8
The first movie after all these unnecessary sequels, still remains the
best movie. When I first watched "Pirates of the Caribbean" at the age
of 11, it breathed new life into pirate movies that seemed to have been
absent since "Hook" (1991). Luckily with a fantastic score by Klaus
Badelt and Hans Zimmer, plus fantastic performances from Johnny Depp
and Geoffrey Rush. It's debatable who steals the show, as director Gore
Verbinski creates a movie that is anything but slow and visually
wonderful."Captain" Jack Sparrow (Depp), searches for a ship and crew in order to
get revenge from Captain Barbossa (Rush), and claim back his ship the
legendary "Black Pearl". Unfortunately along his way, he also manages
to involve Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), and local blacksmith Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom). Who become entangled with the villainous
pirates and their quest to break an ancient curse.Saying all that. I suppose I would like to jokingly shoot myself in the
foot, and say what are the point of all these wonderful fight scenes if
they're cursed skeletons who remain pretty much invulnerable?
Regardless, the styles and influences definitely hearkens back to the
Golden age of Hollywood. The choreography is swift and for as much as
the CGI is wonderfully rendered, a majority of effects are practical
thanks to the films impressive budget (Thank you Jerry Bruckheimer).Final Verdict: One of the better live action Disney movies, and
probably the best movie ever based on a theme park ride. 8/10.

******
18 August 2014
8
Title: Pirates of the Caribbean Condensed Storyline: A group of cursed pirates are looking for pieces
of Aztec gold which a woman called Elizabeth has, she gets kidnapped so
a black smith has to team up with a pirate to rescue herNotable Acting: This entire franchise stands on the shoulders of Johnny
Depp, he is what gives this movie it's spark. No matter how great
Geoffrey Rush's, Orlando Bloom's or Keira Knightley's acting was if the
main character of Jack Sparrow wasn't done right, the movie would have
fell on deaf ears, mainly because this movie was suppose to be about
Will and Elizabeth's characters, but it was just as much about Jack and
Barbossa. So everyone really needed each other to make the drama and
tension work for this movie.Graphics: The skeleton crew of the Black Pearl are nice effects to say
the least Incorrect Science: The boat scene at the beginning is impossible
because you would need to have the strength of 100 men plus the weight
of them to keep that boat from floating to the surface, mainly because
wood floats and the air trapped in it that they are using to breath
would make it float moreIncorrect History: Granny Smith apples were not discovered until 1868
"Bob's your uncle" was not used until 1890 Concertina was not invented
until 1829 Trapdoor gallows weren't invented until 1800 Incorrect Geography: Gunships are generally too big to sail in Jamaican
waters Overall Feel: This movie was one of the biggest gambles Disney had made
up until this point, as Disney always liked being family friendly. They
found that this movie worked they would continue milking this franchise
for another 5 movies up to this point. There are a lot of science and
history errors in this movie, but it is made to be an action,
adventure, comedy flick. I liked this movie as it had a solid cast,
decent budget, good effects. Everything you would want from a fun movie
which doesn't take it's self too seriously. This movie was based on the
ride of Pirates of the Caribbean, but there is little to no reference
to the ride in this movie, there is more reference to the previous
Disney in this movie than the ride. But the movie was made to be its
own movie, so it stands by its own merits and works great.

******
25 July 2014
5
With every additional sequel the 'Pirates' saga has become bloated and
weighed down by its own sense of whimsy and importance. And why do they
have to be so bum-numbingly long?! However it is important to remember
that this first entry was actually pretty good and contained lots of
good moments.Johnny Depp is on fine form as Captain Jack and the Will/Elizabeth
romance is not nearly as annoying as it would become in later
instalments.It's a good stand alone film really but you can understand why Disney,
faced with a surprise hit, would want to milk it for all its worth.
Sadly though, the more films that are produced the more the reputation
of what once was a strong franchise is weakened.

******
4 December 2013
7
I liked three things in particular about this film. Just say Johnny
Depp three times. His character Jack Sparrow redefines the term
swashbuckler. Not since William Hurt's performance in Children of a
Lesser God , and to a slightly lesser degree Kevin Costner's in JFK,
has an actor so resoundingly stolen the show. If you do not like Johnny
Depp, 'Pirates' is not for you. If you do like Mr. Depp (Edward
Scissorhands, Ed Wood), you will enjoy 'Pirates'.That is not to say that Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush were less than
fantastic. Rush made a delightful villain as Capt. Barbossa, and
Orlando Bloom's performance brought charisma to a rather limiting role
as Will Turner. Expect nothing but good things from this young actor in
the future.Let us examine the plot. This will be a rather short paragraph, for
sword fights do not a movie make. The opening scenes show a young
Elizabeth Swann on a ship at sea. A young Will Turner floats up on a
raft, unconscious, wearing a gold medallion round his neck. Elizabeth
hides the medallion so that no one else will know that young Will is a
pirate. Years later, the pirates come to Port Royal in quest of the
gold piece and kidnap the governor's daughter Elizabeth (Kiera
Knightly), now all grown up. The fact that she also has the medallion
they are looking for is just one of those lucky things that will happen
if you're a good pirate who eats well and stays fit. Captain Jack
Sparrow shows up at about the same time and he and Will commandeer a
ship from the Royal Navy to chase the pirates, save Elizabeth, and add
some adventure to their otherwise bleak lives. Swordfight, swordfight,
swordfight, and that's about it. Let us just say that Pirates of the
Caribbean has all the plot of an amusement park ride and leave it at
that.

******
28 October 2013
10
Okay, now this review comes a decade later. Even after all was said and
done one still can't get over the fact that Johnny Depp did not receive
a Oscar for this one.Blah... Blah.... Blah, I know that most of you have read several
reviews of the movie since 2003 and I am not going to bore with how
great the acting was, how the humour worked and the VFX was amazing but
I am not. The only reason for this review is that the Academy missed
another opportunity to revive itself in the minds of the common
audience. Jim Carrey was snubbed so was Steven Spielberg (Read The
Truman Show and Saving Private Ryan ) Jack Sparrow will be considered
as an icon in the next 50 years. Never before we had seen a character
with such indulegence in himself and slyness beyond the usual. The
Academy could have recognised the fact and given the Best Actor award
to Depp instead of their usual winners.Nevertheless, the character will remain etched in the minds of all POTC
fans. Whenver the name Johnny Depp comes up, I am sure most of us will
remember him as Jack Sparrow.Now, Bring Me the horizon.

******
2 October 2013
5
nice film but there was little sense that they were actually in the
Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that they were actually
in the Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that they were
actually in the Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that
they were actually in the Caribbean. nice film but there was little
sense that they were actually in the Caribbean. nice film but there was
little sense that they were actually in the Caribbean. nice film but
there was little sense that they were actually in the Caribbean. nice
film but there was little sense that they were actually in the
Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that they were actually
in the Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that they were
actually in the Caribbean. nice film but there was little sense that
they were actually in the Caribbean.

******
19 September 2013
9
This movie was a great into to all of the Pirates of the Caribbean
movies, setting the bar high straight away, Johnny Depp was the best
choice for Captain Jack Sparrow and no one else could play it better,
All in All, a great movie for the whole family to watch. I would
recommend this to all people who like to go slightly back in time to
the age of pirates and stolen treasure. The story is also great with
little surprises along the way, These little twists give extra levels
to the story which may not have always have been there. THe graphics
for this movie are exceptional for the day and age it was made. THe way
they left it was a great way for them to continue it onto the next
movie.

******
5 August 2013
9
One of the best Pirates of the Caribbean movies I have seen. It really
kept me on my feet and focused the hole time I enjoyed how they made it
seem very thrilling, the excitement was outstanding. Orlando did a
great job acting. He played his parts wonderfully, along with Kara
Knightly (excuse my spelling mistakes if i made any.) but i recommend
any of the Pirates of the Caribbean movies to any age groups. They are
very exhilarating and entertaining for the hole family they have their
humor when needed to be, and some scares also. Some swear words may be
said nothing serious but just to warn some people who may have young
children but other then that nothing bad. Enjoy :)

******
29 July 2013
8
I have never been a massive fan of Johnny Depp in the past, but I must
admit that his performance in Pirates of the Caribbean was nothing
short of perfect. He really stole every scene that he was in and really
helped in making this a fun and entertaining feature.What's also great about Pirates of the Caribbean is that the story
itself is both captivating and compelling. Basically, the Pirates of
the Black Pearl led by Barbossa (brilliantly portrayed by Geoffrey
Rush) kidnap the governor's daughter (Keira Knightley)after they
discover that she has the missing gold piece that they need to lift the
curse of the Black Pearl.Upon realising that she has been kidnapped, blacksmith Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) calls upon the help of eccentric pirate Jack Sparrow
(amazingly performed by Johnny Depp)to help in the mission to rescue
her. Turner recruited Sparrow as he is a pirate himself and was a
former ally of the Pirates of the black pearl and therefore he knows
where they will be heading. A crew of pirates are hand picked to assist
in the rescue - there is one scene where Sparrow asks a couple of
questions to one crew member, but this crew member can't speak as his
tongue got ripped out so a parrot does his talking for him. Genius!POTC combines all of the elements of great film making; good acting
(particularly by Rush and Depp), impressive special effects, humour -
Jack Sparrow is utterly hilarious - check out the scenes where he gets
slapped by several different women and the scene where he is marooned
on an island with Knightley's character. These scenes are absolutely
hilarious. There are also plenty of battle sequences to keep fans of
action happy too and these battle scenes come fairly frequently so the
film never becomes dull.If you like films that have a mix of humour, action, combined with a
compelling story and pretty impressive special effects then look no
further.

******
19 July 2013
10
Pirates of the Caribbean it's the most amazing pirate movie I've ever
seen.I just love that the comedy it's combined with fantasy and a bit of
drama.The actors are amazing.The actors are amazing,so talented , so flexible and dedicated when it
comes to their role.I watched them like 20 times and I can't wait for another movie from
this amazing series of movies. A film that truly deserves to be seen!Especially when you are an
Orlando and Johnny fan.

******
4 July 2013
8
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a bona fide
classic, one of my 50 favorite movies! Capt. Jack Sparrow is a hero for
the ages! brought to life by the lovely Johnny Depp. Depp gives a
swashbuckling original performance. Curse of the Black Pearl is high
seas adventure to the very end, barrels and barrels of fun! It's good
and fun for every last second! Captain Jack's character introduction is
excellent, at the very beginning when he first steps onto the docks
from his sinking sail ship, I love that! It reveals Jack's sloppy and
resourceful being as a pirate. Depp acts brilliantly and totally brings
out the best in Sparrow. He acts like a drunkard. I can imagine how
much fun this role would have been for Depp. The nomination was good
but he should have brought home the Oscar. Orlando Bloom's attractive
as young Will Turner. Depp and Bloom alone are plenty amusement for the
ladies. Keira Knightley looks amazing as Elizabeth Swann as she's
wonderful. She's just too good of an actress, better than even Rush or
Depp. Geoffrey Rush is great as Barbossa, a creative and fun villain.
The 1st Pirates of the Caribbean is the only one worth its weight in
gold. The sequels pale in comparison. Each of the Pirates of the
Caribbeans are worthy for Johnny Depp's Capt. Jack character if nothing
else, but the 1st Pirates is the only one that's really well-crafted.
Curse of the Black Pearl has great writing, gorgeous cinematography and
sharp, learned dialogue. I love the visuals of this film! Pirates is
funny and is one awesome family adventure! Pirates of the Caribbean is
a great tale filled with interesting characters, pretty landscapes, and
extravagant sets. It's really always a good viewing, it's harmless fun,
and it never grows old! It'll really lightens your spirits. Pirates of
the Caribbean is stylishly artful, but also, it's really very fun!

******
4 May 2013
8
Really a great film and great chemistry between the leads as we see
that it is really Johnny Depp known for choosing character roles and
story lines rather than blockbusters as this movie made him his
popularity soar as wisecracking Captain Jack Sparrow.The movie has wit and charm. Along with great acting and great writing.
As there would be three more sequels to the movie franchise. With Depp
in the lead role.Orlando Bloom as the simple yet sword trained lovestruck young man, who
helps Captain Jack as his soon to be love, Elizabeth Swann played by a
then 18-year old Keira Knightly is kidnapped by the antagonist of the
film, Captain Barbosa played by Geoffrey Rush who would later be a good
guy in latter films.As Jack wants revenge against Barbosa after he stole Jack's ship among
other things and much more.A mighty fun time for this Disney feature and Johnny Depp and company
making it more amusing!

******
16 February 2013
8
Story/Plot - Elizabeth Swan (Keira Knightley) is the daughter of the
Governor and she holds the last piece of Aztec gold, wanted and hunted
by pirates. Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is a pirate and captain
of the Black Pearl. Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) is a blacksmith with
quick feet and quick thinking.Elizabeth is kidnapped by a group of pirates under the command of
Captain Barbosa (Geoffrey Rush) and taken to the Black Pearl. On board
this ship Elizabeth soon realizes that the pirates are more than rum
drinking swashbucklers, they are in fact undead. Will and Jack join
forces on the hunt to save the love of Will's life, Elizabeth. With a
ship and a crew they set sale to reclaim what is theirs and take down
Barbosa.A battle commences and a fight to the death has arisen. Will Jack
reclaim the Pearl and Will reunite with Elizabeth?My verdict - An amazing story of grit and determination surrounded by
love and action.

******
7 February 2013
7
Originally published on June 11, 2003: Let's face facts, Johnny Depp's record in films has been pretty good
throughout his career.From his early efforts, "Edward Scissorhands," "What's Eating Gilbert
Grape," and "Benny and Joon," to later work in "Don Juan DeMarco," "Ed
Wood" and "Sleepy Hollow," he has maintained a steady run of decent
performances.He has also never been nominated for an Academy Award, although his
terrific work in "Ed Wood" did earn him a well-deserved Golden Globe
nod. Oscar neglect, however, may end with his latest entry, Disney's
"Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl," which, like many
of his other roles, does not disappoint.And even though he is not working with his favorite director, Tim
Burton (this movie is helmed by Gore Verbinski, "The Ring"), he still
does a marvelous job.Based on the wildly popular ride at Disneyland, which, in turn, was
inspired by an episode of the 1950s TV series, "Davy Crockett," the
plot has Depp as the leading man,the bumbling, mascaraed pirate captain
Jack Sparrow of the ship, The Black Pearl. Marooned on a deserted
island as the result of a mutiny, he thus missed out on the curse the
vessel was plagued by.Given a blunderbuss with one bullet (in which to end his misery), he
nonetheless saves it to gain revenge against his mutinous first mate,
Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush, Oscar-winner for "Shine"), but there is a
catch. The crew of the ship has now become part of the living dead, so
it may be a bit difficult to dispatch the traitor.Along to aid this cause is blacksmith William Turner (Orlando Bloom,
the elf in the "Lord of the Rings" films), who was found adrift as a
young boy wearing an Aztec medallion (part of the whole curse thing),
as well as Elizabeth Swann (Kiera Knightly, "Bend It Like Beckham"),
the daughter of the British provincial governor (Jonathan Pryce,
"Brazil").Depp, even though a dashing handsome man, is in rare form here, not
afraid to look ridiculous or take a pratfall or two, but at the same
time, engages in some amazing swordplay and derring-do athletics. He
also carries his British accent amazingly well, albeit he does sound a
bit slurred and inebriated, much like Dudley Moore in "Arthur." With Sparrow's motley crew of handpicked pirates chasing the Black
Pearl, the Royal Navy is also in tow, searching for Elizabeth.
Conclusion has all three groups battling it out in a somewhat
frightening denouement.Picture is also peppered with not only sharp, intelligent dialogue not
usually found in a Disney film, but features some obvious scenes taken
directly from the ride itself. Also, the cinematography (Dariusz Wolski, "Dark City," "The Mexican"),
visual effects (Joel Behrens), costumes (Rochelle Best) and makeup
(Greg Cannom) are top-notch and spot-on, giving this film a feeling of
complete authenticity.All in all, "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a fun, wonderful adventure,
not unlike the attraction from which it came, one I am proud to say is
still one of my favorites. Beware parents of younger children, however, there are some scary
sequences and frightening characters as well as some violent scenes
which give this movie a PG rating - the first ever for a Disney
production.

******
5 January 2013
8
Pirates of the Caribbean was one of the most surprising films I have
ever seen. I was very apprehensive going in. It was based on an
amusement park ride! And I remember thinking "This is going to be bad"
after watching the trailer. I think it was one of those trailers that
cram in all the cheapest jokes the movie had to offer. But I went
because Johnny Depp is my favorite living actor and my college friends
had an obsession with pirates. I was blown away by how funny it is and
what a great ride (hee hee) this film is. Depp really makes the film.
It would probably be a completely forgettable movie with anyone else as
Jack Sparrow. I can't think of a better example of an actor completely
losing himself in a role and having as much fun as possible. Check out
my full review
http://amandalovesmovies.com/2012/03/22/pirates-of-the-caribbean/

******
22 November 2012
7
I actually liked this movie quite a bit when it first came out and its
still good to this day. Usually Disney goes for really childish movies
but this one has more of a grown up feel and with a fun interesting
story line and a great performance from Johnny Depp this movie becomes
very enjoyable.This movie is about a blacksmith who teams up with pirate Jack Sparrow
in order to save the love of his life who was kidnapped by Sparrows ex
gang of pirates who are now undead monsters.I know the plot sounds kind of silly and strange but this movie is
really enjoyable. Besides the countless historical errors if you blot
those from your mind and just sit back and enjoy the ride it is very
fun once all said and done with.

******
20 August 2012
8
2003's Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl boasts a
large British cast, consisting of Geoffrey Rush, Keira Knightly, Jack
Davenport, Orlando Bloom, and Jonathan Price. Impressive. Their acting
is good. But you could have put a bunch of unknowns in this film along
with Johnny Depp and the film would still have been a hit.Depp plays Captain Jack Sparrow, who goes along with blacksmith Will
Turner (Bloom) as he tries to find Elizabeth Swann, his love
(Knightley). She is the daughter of the governor and has been kidnapped
by the awful Captain Barbossa (Rush). Barbossa and his crew live under
an old curse. They're not dead but they're not alive either. The curse
can't be broken without returning all of the gold with each pirate's
blood back into the chest.Because of the medallion Elizabeth wears, Barbossa believes she is the
one he wants. If he gets her medallion and puts her blood on it, the
curse will be broken. He's in for a shock.There are some great special effects, suspense, and humor in this
overly long film, as well as some wonderful acting, but Johnny Depp
steals the film. His hilarious Jack Sparrow, based on Keith Richard, is
fantastic. He makes this a film a cut above the usual adventure film by
giving such a quirky performance. As he would say, savvy?

******
15 April 2012
7
Pirates Of The Caribbean: The Curse Of The Black Pearl is flawed fun.
It's mostly predictable, it's got some good gags, but it's heavily
flawed. The film has literally HUNDREDS of contradictions and plot holes. I
enjoyed the film, but the contradictions were distracting. This film has a fantastic first half hour. It's funny, and thrilling at
times. However, after that first half hour, the quality drops. It's
still enjoyable, and you will be entertained, but it never lives up to
that first half hour. The musical score is VERY good. There were too many hands in the score
for me to properly credit anyone, but Hanz Zimmer played a big part in
the score, and it shows. The action, is mostly generic, and will never have you on the edge of
your seat. At times, the action is even predictable. At the minimum,
it's passable, and not terrible. The acting is strong. Performances from Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, and
Geofferey Rush shine. The story is a little on the cliché side, but it's a silly tale, and no
one really cares. In addition to contradictions, there were a lot of moments where I
rolled my eyes at the improbability of it all. Of course, teenage boys
tend to eat that stuff up. POTC: TCOTBP is a fun, albeit flawed movie, that's probably best for
teens and tweens with low expectations.

******
27 February 2012
7
Disney seemed to be going down the tubes lately, with Atlantis and Home
on the Range, but this movie is a masterpiece. If it wasn't for this
movie, Johnny Depp wouldn't be as famous as he is today. Every scene
with him or Geoffery Rush is brilliant. The movie is very crisp and the
shots of the islands are breathtaking. Definitely a movie worth picking
up at Blockbuster or even better, buying ( I don't buy DVDs often but
this was one of them). The characters are thought out very well and
plot is excellent. The script is one of the main stars of the film
itself, every line that seems to come out of Sparrow or Barbossa's
mouth or any of the other cast is original. If you like action films
you'll love this, if you like comedy you'll love this, actually, this
movie is great for everyone (except small kids, who may get frightened
by the skeleton scenes). 10/10

******
11 February 2012
7
And so, this summer, after the ritual badgering, I dutifully trudged
into yet another Disney "adventure" movie. Named after that tired old
ride in Anaheim I first went on in 1965. I mean really, how much can
you expect? And then, it happened. The swirling intoxication. The
stunned feeling. What? Who? How? Was this a movie? Or a religious
experience? Perhaps more like an addictive experience...I cannot remember ever willingly paying to see any movie not starring a
relative of mine more than twice, and I can count those movies on one
hand. I have now seen "Pirates" four times. The only thing keeping me
from seeing it again is the sense that this whole thing is just getting
out of hand. I cannot get enough of it. It's like walking into a
painting that you never want to come back out of. My children ask, with
a note of concern in their voices, "Dad, you really like Pirates of the
Caribbean a lot, don't you?" And that Depp fellow. My God. I never had
any idea who he was, but his name sounded like something created for a
pubescent cover-boy for magazines published to hook thirteen year-old
girls on make-up and bad music. Wasn't Depp the name of some hair-goo
product back in the 60s?

******
31 January 2012
6
Johnny Depp was hilarious a Jack Sparrow, and acted like a true Pirate.
His obsessive drinking antics, and his walk really brought out this
chaqracter. Plus he made character we could all love and enjoy, that
deserves an Oscar in my view.Geoffrey Rush played Barbosa the bad guy. Who turned out to be quite a
good bad guy in my view. He showed real potential, and I loved the way
how he manipulated people.Keira Knightley plays Elizabeth, the governor's daughter. Prisoner of
the Pirates. She is quite momorable in this role, and is a great jump
for her evergrowing popularity.Orlando Bloom plays Will Turner. A simple blacksmith, who is also a
well trained swordsman. Who is in hot pursuit of saving Elizabeth from
the Pirates.The more memorable thing about this though is the curse. A well thought
out curse. That can always lead to sequel or a prequel. You'll see what
I mean when you watch it.The story is based on these Pirates who happen to be cursed, and they
want to rid the curse. To do that they need the blood of a pirate, not
just any pirate but the son of Bill Turner- William Turner. Mistaken
for Bill Turner's child the pirates Capture Elizabeth, and take her
hostage, while William teams up with a Rogue pirate, Jack Sparrow, who
is on a streak for revenge against Barbosa. While all at the same time
are being chased by the British fleet.A great adventure. Well played swordfighting. Great laughs. Great
music. And great story. Pirates are back in my good book.

******
27 January 2012
7
The films opening scene was fantastic. It was fun and creative and
really captured the essence of the Jack Sparrow that we love. It kept
going for a bit. The first 20 minutes of the movie were the most
exciting and fun parts of the movie except for one scene which I feel
may be second best scene in all the Pirates films.The infamous addition of mermaids was the best part in the entire film.
It was very reminiscent of the powerful underwater march of the dead
from the first film.Lets move onto the acting. Most of it was decently solid but Ian
McShane as the villain, Black Beard stole the show. He actually seemed
like the only one who cared to make the film interesting. Another
newcomer to the series was Penelope Cruz. She was nothing fantastic but
completely necessary to bring in a much needed sex appeal to the film.
Geoffrey Rush returned as Barbosa, I felt he was very confused as to if
he was a bad guy or good guy which caused his acting to seem very
indifferent. There were a few scenes that you knew he was having fun
but otherwise he was just a drag. And of course Johnny Depp reprized
his role as the witty fun loving Captain Jack Sparrow. Again he had his
moments just like Barbosa that were fun and creative but he even came
up a little lackluster in certain scenes.The story was super simple, which I guess is understandable considering
the convoluted mess of 2 and 3.There was an unnecessary sub plot that
never got resolved, which I wish they spent a little more time on and
made it a little darker. I am not going to spoil anything though, but
you will see what I am talking about when you see the film. As you wait
for the scene after the credits you want it to be the conclusion to
this sub plot but nope. The climax could have been a bit more climatic
and more exciting, but I guess they did what they could. Most of the
action happens in the dark so I would not recommend the 3D transfer of
it. I saw it in 2D and I thought the 3D wouldn't be worth it.It was nothing special and definitely not Gore Verbinski. The way the
film turned out, it looked like the director was even bored while
shooting.Positively though it is a summer blockbuster where your brain needs to
be left at home and will be enjoyed by lovers of the series. It may not
stay with you but for an hour and half of the movie out of the 2+
running time you will be enjoying yourself which I guess is not too
bad.On initial reaction to the film I gave it a 7/10 because at the time it
was enjoyable. Then I thought about it and the reason I almost fell
asleep twice was not because it was late, it was because the story was
boring and nothing was really happening in this lengthy piece of work.
Therefore on second reaction it gets a 5/10.

******
17 December 2011
7
Jerry Bruckheimer created a completely new genre of movie with the
Pirates of the Caribbean. It's not just a pirate movie, not just a
ghost movie, and not just a comedy, but all combined into one strange
tale of curse, legend, and adventure. Not to mention some romance along
the way.The movie also created a new character, Capt. Jack Sparrow who's not
even human as the hero.The story is bit convoluted and difficult to understand. Why the curse
started in the first place, why Jack is cursed, where the heck Davy
Jones' locker came from etc. etc. Even if you've paid attention, some
of the details still remains unclear, and remains that way in the
subsequent sequels.The movie is beautifully made, although bit creepy at times. Johnny
Depp's acting adds to the mysterious mood of the movie. I've watched this movie several times along with its sequels, but I
still haven't figured out the whole story yet.

******
7 June 2011
7
The pirates who infested the Caribbean in the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries may, in real life, have been a murderous bunch of
cut-throats, but Hollywood has generally seen them as swashbuckling
heroes, as in the Burt Lancaster vehicle "The Crimson Pirate" from the
fifties. "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is a
modern film in the same tradition. It is said to be based on a
Disneyland theme park ride, although in this context the phrase "based
on" probably means little more than "sharing a name with".The film is set in Jamaica during the late seventeenth century,
presumably before the destruction of Port Royal in an earthquake in
1692, as part of the action takes place in that city. There is,
however, little attempt at period accuracy, and some of the costumes
and uniforms on display seem to date from a much later period, in some
cases as late as the 1770s. There are a number of other goofs; why, for
example, would anyone need a warming-pan in the tropical climate of
Jamaica? The plot is a complex one, which I will not summarise in full.
It centres upon the rivalry between Will Turner, a blacksmith, and
pirate captain Jack Sparrow for the love of Elizabeth Swann, the
beautiful daughter of the British Governor of Jamaica. Despite their
rivalry, and Will's detestation of all pirates, the two men have to
join forces to rescue Elizabeth who has been kidnapped by Hector
Barbossa, captain of the pirate ship the Black Pearl. Barbossa and his
men are under a supernatural curse, laid upon them when they stole a
treasure of Aztec gold. It transpires that Jack Sparrow was once the
captain of the Black Pearl, but lost his command when Barbossa, against
whom he has sworn vengeance, led a mutiny against him.The studio did not hold out great hopes for the film; at one time
Disney Chief Executive Michael Eisner even wanted to drop the
production. In the event, however, it proved an unexpected success,
both critically and at the box office, and has spawned three sequels to
date. The fact that a major character dies towards the end of the film
might suggest that the producers were not anticipating a sequel; the
character in question was miraculously resurrected in time for "Dead
Man's Chest". There are, I think, two reasons for the film's success.
The first is that, despite a complicated and often nonsensical plot,
the story is an entertaining one which moves along at a fast pace. The
film stays true to the traditions of the pirate film with some good
action sequences, including an excellent hand-to-hand duel between Will
and Sparrow.The second reason for the film's success is some highly inventive
casting. This was the film which first made a major star of Keira
Knightley. The lovely Keira had already had a big success in Britain
with "Bend It like Beckham", but was less well-known in America or
internationally. In a traditional pirate movie, Elizabeth would
doubtless have been played as a helpless, fragile damsel-in-distress.
Today, feminist theory frowns upon this sort of portrayal of female
characters, so Elizabeth becomes feisty and determined, but Keira is
able to suggest an underlying fragility and vulnerability even when her
character is at her feistiest. Geoffrey Rush was rather cast against
type; I had always previously regarded him as the star of serious films
like "Shine" or "Elizabeth", but here he plays Barbossa as a
swaggering, semi-comic pantomime villain. Orlando Bloom has a difficult
task; Will is, nominally at least, the romantic lead, but he is also
rather strait-laced, and at times he seems rather dull by comparison
with the film's real star character, Captain Jack.For it is undoubtedly Johnny Depp who steals the film. Depp is
sometimes an eccentric actor, but he is hardly ever a dull one. (OK, he
was dull in "Chocolat", but then that was a very dull film). The
original intention was that Captain Jack Sparrow should be played as a
straightforward swashbuckler, based upon the pirates played by the
likes of Lancaster or Errol Flynn. Depp, however, subverted this
intention and turned Sparrow into a sort of 17th century rock star- he
claims the character was based on Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones-
with a slightly slurred diction and a more than slightly camp manner.
To traditionalists this must have seemed like an outrageously eccentric
interpretation of the role, and yet somehow it works brilliantly,
contrasting nicely with the more straightforwardly masculine Will. Depp
even received an Oscar nomination for "Best Actor", a remarkable
achievement for an action-adventure summer blockbuster. He, more than
anyone else, is responsible for lifting "Curse of the Black Pearl" well
above the normal standard of such blockbusters. 7/10

******
23 May 2011
8
'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl' is a hugely
entertaining, comedy-cum-action-cum-horror romp, with Johnny Depp,
arguably the finest Hollywood actor of his generation, running riot as
Captain Jack Sparrow, reportedly modelled on Keith Richards. In terms
of how the film is constructed, the nature of his role is interesting,
as there's an almost conventional story without him: a romantic lead, a
beautiful, feisty heroine, a love rival and an evil villain account for
most of the plot without Sparrow even getting a mention. Sparrow is
more like an annoying child than anything, cropping up and getting in
the way, pursuing his own ambitions and desires with childish abandon.
As is often said, he really is the "world's worst pirate", scarcely
meriting being taken seriously; but instead of just being a comic
extra, he's actually the film's central character. It's hard to imagine
the story working without Depp in the role, but fortunately, it doesn't
have to. Sit back and smile.

******
9 May 2011
7
For a movie based on a attraction ride, this is pretty good. But I
still found it a bit overrated because of the big praise it got when it
first came out. This movie is something kids and adults can enjoy, but
it doesn't excel to something more than that. The trailer for this
movie was more better than the movie itself, but for going in a
direction where it's watchable for the whole family. It's done pretty
well for the most part, although it comes off a bit silly at times
because of it and not really in a positive way either. I personally
didn't really like the humor in this although some of the audience
might like it. Johnny Depp has created a iconic character because of
this movie, and he liked this character a lot himself. Jack Sparrow is
a fun and interesting character to watch on screen and is the character
that stood out the most. The other cast members did really well with
their roles especially Geoffrey Rush who plays Captain Barbossa. The
movie was fun a ride, however it got pretty old after it got shown in
school way too many times. Overall it's a good movie that the whole
family can enjoy, but it's still a bit of a overrated movie.7.8/10

******
16 April 2011
8
This film is amazing. It improves over the first one COMPLETELY, and
gives the Movie a little feeling of horror (e.g. Davy Jones and his
crew), But in the progress it kinda loses the charm of the first film,
-Which I recommend you check out-, Well anyway, This film is a must
have for anyone with a sense of adventure and loves pirate Movie's.The only thing I disliked is some of the characters, They brought the
guy with the fake eye back along with that other guy who follows him
everywhere, They also brought back the old crew of the black pearl,
along with Will and Elizabeth and the commodore!All that is great but apart from Davy Jones and his crew (And maybe the
cannibal islanders) film doesn't really has much originality,it uses
the same formula as it's predecessor , which is great and all but, they
could of changed something more.(I watched the DVD version)

******
28 March 2011
9
It seems only fitting that the film that started the billion-dollar
franchise is also one of the best films that Disney Pictures has ever
released, and also one of the best adventure flicks ever made. "Pirates
of the Caribbean" has a little in it for everybody, great action
sequences, sharp, hilarious comedy, stellar characters, a great story,
and of course, Jack Sparrow, who's impossible to not adore.The film tells the story of Captain Jack Sparrow, a pirate who teams up
with a blacksmith Will Turner as they attempt to rescue Elizabeth
Swann, Will's love interest, who has been captured by a cursed crew of
a pirate ship called the Black Pearl, captained by the evil Barbossa.
However, Jack has ulterior motives in their mission, and from there the
film takes off on one of the most exciting and enjoyable action romp of
the decade.The characters are all brilliantly fleshed out and interesting, and
sympathetic, but the character who steals the show is Captain Jack.
Johnny Depp gives the performance of a lifetime with Jack, masterfully
crafting a character who is incredibly sly, charismatic, funny, and yet
constantly gets himself into stupid situations. Never has a character
like this been committed to film, and it's immortalized through Depp.
He absolutely makes this film leap from good to great.The film's special effects, while somewhat dated by today's (and the
sequel films) standards, still maintain a sense of charm to them and
the stunt sequences are all fabulous. The action is intense and
entertaining, keeping you on the edge of your seat from start to
finish. The swashbuckling never gets old, and the film is always great
fun.Thanks to this film, the pirate genre was redefined from silly and
hokey, to what "Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl"
gives audiences: a strong story intertwined with intense action and
humor. It's one of my personal favorite films, and definitely one of
the best films to bear the Disney name. It's great, and I absolutely
recommend anybody who wants to enjoy themselves with a movie to see it.

******
13 January 2011
10
This is my all time favorite Hollywood movie. This movie came in the
time when I used to watch very low number of English movies. I came
across the trailer but I knew nothing about the Disney ride, or Johnny
depp or nothing about the concept. So I let it pass by thinking it as
some other stereo type Hollywood horror pic. Years passed by trailers
of third part of the franchise are coming, then i got interested and
downloaded the movie and watched it. God, I felt great, I'm so
spellbound by what I watched, the action, comedy, concept I liked
everything in the movie. There are stories called chandamama kadhalu in
my native language like these, this is one of it kind, so well made,
till now i had watched this movie more than 50 times, and i'll keep
watching it when ever i got bored.

******
8 January 2011
9
Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl When the first
Pirates of the Caribbean film came out in 2003, expectations were low.
Recent swashbuckling fare in the cinemas had been disappointing to say
the least (Cutthroat Island anyone?) and this new Disney adventure was
based on a theme park ride! Early production news was generally greeted
with trepidation, rather than anticipation - which made Pirates of the
Caribbean such a wonderful surprise. 2 hours of rollicking adventure
that harks back to the glory days of Errol Flynn and the like, and more
recently films such as Raiders of the Lost Ark. Such was the impact of
Pirates of the Caribbean that it not only spawned a trilogy (with a
fourth in the works) but completely refreshed and re-launched the
family adventure, leading to enjoyable imitations such as National
Treasure  and even providing the impetus for Spielberg to finally get
round to making the fourth Indiana Jones movie. Even Johnny Depp can be
grateful for this juggernaut of a franchise; his outstanding
show-stealing performance reinvigorated his career and thrust him into
the mainstream of Hollywood, as well as landing him a thoroughly
deserved Oscar nomination.The plot (such as it is), opens with a suitably creepy nautical fog
scene  which proves somewhat deliberately disingenuous for what is to
come. After a misleading tone is set, a plot develops which revolves
around a band of bloodthirsty pirates searching for some treasure or
other in order to free themselves from a curse, with our swashbuckling
heroes in valiant pursuit, trying to save the captured damsel in
distress. So far, so predictable. But what makes Pirates work is that
it knows how corny it is, and rather than trying to disguise it,
director Verbinski and producer Bruckheimer (who has his explosive and
exaggerated fingerprints all over this yarn), turn the corny all the
way up to 11. What follows is a true piece of enjoyable escapist
cinema. It may not be highbrow, but it sure is entertaining, and Johnny
Depp is truly a revelation as Captain Jack Sparrow. For all his
previously eccentric parts in Ed Wood, Edward Scissorhands and the
like, this is the role which will forever define him  and Depp is fine
with that! The treasure is little more than a macguffin, and it is the
characters  particularly Depp's Sparrow  not the plot, which provide
the basis of what is a very entertaining film.Yet while Depp does steal the show, it is not solely his film. Orlando
Bloom does (barely) manage to expand his emotional range from that seen
in Lord of the Rings, and Keira Knightley manages to display for the
first time the contradictory qualities of feisty modern heroine and
elegant damsel in distress that gave her success in Pride and Prejudice
and The Duchess. Geoffrey Rush however, is the equal to Depp in
scene-stealing stakes, and provides a fascinating villain to the piece.All the ingredients for a fully enjoyable epic adventure are here.
Exotic locations? Check. Stellar (largely British) supporting cast?
Check. Swordfights and chase scenes? Check. A scene-stealing heroic
lead who dishes out one-liners galore? Check. Finally, an enjoyably
hokum plot with some macguffin or other at its centre? Double check.
All of these elements combine wonderfully to make Pirates of the
Caribbean greater than the sum of its not-inconsiderable parts.

******
1 January 2011
9
This movie was a great family movie night event. My fave character was
of course Captain Jack Sparrow as he seems to bring humor into
everything. The plot was not predicting as I would have thought, so I
enjoyed it very much. It is generally not good for younger children for
some violence but my 8 year old brother was thrilled with it. Of course
he loves Star Wars. I was glad to see that there were movies that came
out later and have been very happy with all of them. I hope that the
next one coming out will be as great. The Black Pearl definitely earned
its way to a family fave. I definitely recommend to any family with
older children. The movie gave a happy feeling throughout the house. It
is just a perfect little thing. I can't seem to find a fault in the
movie. It was excellent and well put together.

******
28 December 2010
8
It would seem a given that an action/adventure film based on a theme
ride at Disneyland would be an underwhelming disaster. However, one
would be refreshingly incorrect on that score - at least as far as this
film goes. An incredibly imaginative and rousing swashbuckler directed
with technical finesse by Gore Verbinski and sporting a solid
screenplay. The film would have been good fun on its own merits, but it
has been gifted with a tremendous lead performance by Johnny Depp as
the riotous Captain Jack Sparrow - a lucky pirate rogue who manages to
succeed in spite of himself. The visual effects are dazzling and the
film has a spirited supporting cast. Geoffrey Rush is an intimidating
villain as the cursed Captain Barbossa. Keira Knightley is enchanting
as the gutsy governor's daughter and secret pirate groupie accidentally
caught up in the adventure. Orlando Bloom brings much of the grave
beauty of a young Douglas Fairbanks to his role as the more traditional
hero and provides the film much of its heart. Yet the real reason to be
amazed is Depp's incredible work. Any actor can take a great role and
be good in it, but only a great actor can take an iffy role and turn it
into a scene-stealing delight the way that Depp does here. This is the
mark of a great actor and he should have walked off with the Oscar were
Oscar voters not so overly entranced with Sean Penn's tiresome Method
acting from Mystic River. If the film has any weakness, it is that it
sports at least one ending too many and the pacing starts to flag
slightly before the credits roll, but these seem trivial compared to
the achievements.

******
4 December 2010
10
amazing. finally a good pirates movie. they had just the right story,
just the right actors and the right movie. johnny depp showed great
acting and made this character one of the greatest characters ever
created. geoffery rush matched great with johnny. did great as barbossa
and both johnny and geoffery should have been nominated for Oscars and
johnny should of won the Oscar for his role. what was also cool was how
this movie could be funny and serious. not many movies like this one
can pull that off. also orlando bloom and keira knightley had great
chemistry and fit perfectly in the film. this will go down as one of if
not the greatest pirate movies ever made. congrats to everyone that
made this movie and thankyou for making this movie.

******
3 November 2010
10
A wonderful thrill ride through the times of the swashbuckler. Johnny
Depp is marvellous as the scheming captain Jack Sparrow. His use of
incoherent attitudes and forte's of paragraphs of confusion, really
gave the audience a good dose of how a pirate is supposed to be. A
person of the sea, no quarrels with another except if a foe cheats lies
or steals, but that's a pirate for you. This film was a grand scope of
true adventure, to be at sea and fighting off cut throats at every
corner of the ocean. Geoffry Rush was magnificent as the double
crossing Captain Barbosa. And in the middle is William Turner (orlando
Bloom) a man who is love with the lovely Miss Swan (Keira Knightly).
Both together are and unstoppable force for good in the face of
betrayal and uncompromising dastardly deeds between heathen swine and
gobs who lose their eye. This movie has every element of action,
locations, humour, great sword fights, and above all true Pirates Of
the Caribbean.

******
30 September 2010
8
"The Pirates of The Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl", 2003 Directed by: Gore Verbinski* * *Viewed: September 30, 2010The first chapter of what was to be a successful trilogy, is an
entertaining, big scale adventure film, loaded with action and visual
effects. Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow, gives an impressive
performance in the film, complete with accent, energy and mannerisms.The film, at nearly 2 1/2 hours, is longer than usual, for it's genre
of action/adventure. The film moves along at an energetic pace, and
considering the scale of it's story, does not feel overly long.The story concerns pirate Captain Jack Sparrow's return from exile and
meeting up by chance, with the owner of a fabled pirate medallion,
believed to have the power to help lift an old deadly "curse of the
black pearl".Technically, the film delivers, along with Johnny Depp's acting
performance. One should not expect much from the story however, as it
was inspired by a Disney Land theme park attraction. The story is a
blend of action, adventure, fantasy and humor. I imagine, humor was
added to lighten up the film as a whole and provide additional
entertainment value, while not frightening it's targeted young audience
too much. The somewhat solid story has some convenient plot points to
move things along, but there is a large cast of characters: heroes and
villains, to help keep things interesting. Keep watching until the end
of the closing credits, for a sneak preview of the story set up, for
the next film in the trilogy.The real stars of this film: Director Gore Verbinski, Johnny Depp and
the technical/effects crew.

******
11 October 2009
9
For kids, they can enjoy the pirates outfits, fight scenes, and Asian
exotic settings.For adults, they can enjoy the script that talks about honor, changing
world, love, destiny, meaning of life ... etc.One famous Hong Kong director (Wong Jing, whose recent hit was "I
Corrupt All Cops") suggested Cptn Sao Feng's (Chow-Yun Fat) costume
design is racist and his participation in it is a disgrace to his own
people. I cannot disagree more.There are good guys and bad guys characters in this film - his
character happens to be a bad guy, so of course his costume design got
to give a "bad guy" impression to the audience. Furthermore, his role
is a second or third tier of actors/actresses - he can't dress up like
a prince from the east and steal the main characters' thunder. Lastly,
betraying is a tradition in the pirates world, according to the
storyline, thus his betrayal to his fellow pirates doesn't reflect any
ethic values. Instead, it shows how the government likes to use the
betray tactic to create wars among the pirates. Concerning his
performance, he got better performance opportunity in this movie than
"Dragon Balls: Evolution" and he did a great job. If not better than
other actors'.

******
29 May 2007
6
Midway through the third installment of Walt Disney's deliriously
popular pirate franchise, a character says of Capt. Jack Sparrow
(played by Johnnny Depp in what now has to qualify as one of the
weirdest characterizations in screen history), "Is he making this up as
he goes along?" Shiver me timbers, mateys, but one has to ask director
Gore Verbinski and his team of wranglers, er, writers, the same
question of the entire series.I did not fall in love like so many others with the first film in the
trilogy, "The Curse of the Black Pearl," but I saw its appeal. It was
far too long and sloppy, criticisms that have been leveled at parts two
and three but which apply to the first movie as well. I can't even
really remember the plot. It has something to do with Sparrow's beloved
ship, the Black Pearl, being stolen from him by the rival pirate
captain Barbossa (the marvelous Geoffrey Rush, bringing some obligatory
British class to the proceedings) and his army of undead, and Sparrow's
efforts, along with that most boring pair of screen lovers, Keira
Knightley and Orlando Bloom, to get it back. Depending on your
perspective, that plot summary either wraps it up or barely scratches
the surface, because "Pirates" is stuffed with more subplots than it
can handle. Never has so much plot been shoe-horned into a movie (or
trilogy of movies) and so much of it not mattered a bit. It turns out
that Sparrow is actually undead himself, and some sort of curse need be
broken if he is to regain his mortality. Well, it's not ruining
anything to tell you that the curse is indeed broken, and loose ends
are wrapped up while everything's left conveniently open for a sequel.That sequel, "Dead Man's Chest," takes everything that is charming
about the first episode and pushes it past the limits of the audience's
endurance. What a gormless mess the second part is, all furious action
and racing around with absolutely no attempt made at coherence. A
tremendous amount of plot exposition occurs in this installment.
Indeed, the whole film is really set up for part three, yet at the same
time is paced as if the entire movie is one long climax. Our
consolation is that Bill Nighy makes his first appearance as Davy Jones
(no, not the Monkey), looking like a serving of very angry calamari,
and taking up the classy British slack that Rush left behind at the end
of Part I. "Dead Man's Chest" makes no sense whatsoever, and it's not
really even very fun. Even in a mindless action movie, one likes to
have a vague idea of what all the fuss is about.So it pleases me to report that the third and (maybe?) final entry, "At
World's End," gets more right than not, and provides a tremendous
amount of fun. It doesn't even feel overly long, despite its run time
of nearly three hours. The "Pirates" movies' saving grace is the cast
the filmmakers have assembled, and there are moments in this film, when
the cast is all together at the same time, that rival "Star Wars" for
sheer screen chemistry. Rush returns, so we get to enjoy both him and
Nighy, and of course Johnny Depp is back, and returns to the inspired
performance (and surpasses the downright nuttiness) that made the first
installment so memorable. Chow-Yun Fat is this episode's most
significant addition, but let's not dwell on him or the embarrassing
Asian stereotype he hauls along behind him. There's a huge amount of
jokey humour in this segment, perhaps the most in the series, which
helps it succeed in becoming what one sensed it wanted to become all
along -- a sort of Indiana Jones set on water. My prayers that the
pre-pubescent Orlando Bloom would be killed off looked as if they might
have a chance of being answered for a brief moment, until the writers
cruelly resurrected him as a swarthy pirate captain and give him a
dramatic entrance that gave me the biggest (if most unintentional)
belly laugh of them all. Why is it that despite his swishing and
mincing, Depp still gives the impression that he could kick Bloom's
ass?The "Pirates" trilogy will not go down as classics of the genre, but
they'll be remembered for wedging themselves firmly in the
consciousness of movie-going America. Grade: "Curse of the Black Pearl": B "Dead Man's Chest": C- "At World's
End": A-

******
24 February 2007
7
What can we say about this movie that has not already been said? Johnny
Depp gives a extraordinary richness to his character and we follow him
around the oceans in a strong scenario, served by a very solid filming
and editing.Keyra Knightley is still charming and Jack Davenport is still a great
actor (who could have forgotten his role in the original, British,
Coupling). Orlando Bloom is the weakest link here, as always, lacking
presence and charisma on screen.Overall, a very enjoyable and entertaining movie that would have
deserved a higher grade if Bloom hadn't been involved.

******
13 December 2006
7
Pirates of the Caribbean:the curse of the black pearl is not a great
movie,but it kept me fun.The production behind this movie is great.But
the best thing I found on this movie is the script.I know it's not
innovative,but it's well written with the unexpected twists and the
surprises the movie has.The great Johnny Depp has an extraordinary
performance as Jack Sparrow and putting him on that character was a
great decision.He had a very deserved Academy Award nomination.Geoffrey
Rush and Jack Davenport bring excellent performances,too.Keira
Knightley and Orlando Bloom are very shallow on their characters.The
battle sequences are spectacular but some of them are very long and
some of them could have been edited off the movie.Another frailty is
that,near the ending,there are some boring and redundant scenes which
could have been taken out.Pirates of the Caribbean is not a great movie
but it kept me fun.

******
26 November 2006
7
Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush are two of the main reasons to see this
film. Their note-perfect and seemingly effortless portrayals of rival
pirate leaders Sparrow and Barbossa fills the screen whenever they
appear. Other actors are allowed their chance to shine as well, thanks
to Gore Verbinski's generous direction.The action is plentiful, the laughs come like a volley of cannonballs
and the special effects don't overwhelm the story. What's not to like?Well, er, Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom, unfortunately. Shrewish and
drippy respectively, neither of the two young leads has the screen
presence to create a credible romance. Knightley gets more annoying as
the movie progresses and I found myself hoping that someone would kill
her character with another 45 minutes to go. Bloom is fine and athletic
in the action sequences, but fails to convince as soon as he stops
moving and starts to open his mouth.Fortunately, the energy, charm and quality of this movie outshine the
damp squibs of Knightley's and Bloom's performances. 'Tis a fine film,
to be sure, ah-har etc...

******
8 July 2006
10
Pirates is an instant classic and will be remembered for generations to
come, assuming that the poor reputation of the sequel does not
overshadow its wit and brilliance. The first story is a pop-up book
adventure with cartoon-like monsters and a villain whom we all have
loved to hate. The film stands on its own, and Johnny Depp brings to
life the lovable pirate Jack Sparrow, who exhibits questionable loyalty
and hilarious wit. I hope and pray, as a serious fan of the film, that
the fine reputation of this excellent film will not be soiled by the
sequel, which was apparently slopped together to entertain vid-head
teenage boys. Evidently, the writers did not realize that the film's
appeal was in its deep and evolving character relationships, not its
special effects, and making everything bigger and more revolting was
not the key factor in a successful sequel. I for one, among many I'm
sure, have been harshly disappointed after three years of tense
anticipation for the story of lovable Jack Sparrow and his companions.

******
22 December 2005
7
"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is an
over-the-top romp that's just plain fun. Gee, much like an amusement
park ride.Too bad the roster of good actors (including from British TV comedies
"The Office" and "Coupling") were clearly directed to lay it all on
broadly (except Jonathan Pryce who is very atypically laid-back and
therefore wasted). Orlando Bloom doesn't get to do too much, Geoffrey Rush has a ball
being a villain, while Johnny Depp steals the show with his loopy
pirate captain (I like most folks comparison of him to Keith Richards).
I figure the only reason he plays it sort of drunken and crazy is to
not add an unintentional romantic triangle with a very contemporarily
feisty Keira Knightley.For all the action, there's too many close-ups and not enough
opportunity to take it all in from a broader perspective.Stay through the extensive credits (and, evidently yes, they did film
some of it in the Caribbean) to see a cute plot coda.The music is so bombastic and continuous that it's not completely
attributed to just Hans Zimmer but to a large team. (originally written 7/16/2003)

******
2 December 2005
7
There is only one real reason I liked this film and can be summed up in
two words - Johnny Depp. He really made the film what it is - a funny
action adventure. In fact, although the the main focus seems to be
around Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley's characters (and their
romance which was not very believable), Johnny Depp's Capt. Jack
Sparrow was the real focus and what a riot he is! The visual effects
was pretty good too. Other than that though, the story itself is okay
(I thought Cutthroat Island had a better story and that's saying much)
and the music was average (Hans Zimmer has done better - i.e. The Lion
King). But still see this film because of Johnny Depp, actor
extraordinaire!

******
30 August 2005
8
Personally, I thought that one of the major reasons this movie was
popular was because of the cast. Johnny Depp does an OUTSTANDING job
playing Jack Sparrow in this movie. Along wtih Orlando Bloom, Kierra
Knightley, etc. They all really play their character perfectly, and
almost everyone who is a fan of those three actors/actresses will
definitely want to see this movie.The music is also quite impressive, and really sets the mood for the
film, especially with some of the ship scenes. Not to mention, a very
creative and beautifully written plot that really gets you hooked on
while watching the film.Probably not one of the best films ever made, but you will still have a
great time watching and enjoying the film. :-)

******
9 August 2005
10
This movie is a great mixture of comedy and action. The combination of
plot, actors, script, and directing make this one of the best shows out
there. Another thing that improves the quality of this film is the fact
that it has practically no cussing (which I find needless in a movie).
There are several well know actor, including: Jonny Depp, Orlando
Bloom, Kiera Knightley, and Geofery Rush. All of whom did a superb
acting job. The special effect were very well done and very convincing.
Not only can this show make you laugh but it has amazing scenes of
fighting, sailing, etc. This show is definitely a must see. If you
haven't seen it yet then I highly recommend renting or buying.

******
25 July 2005
9
Pirates. What were they thinking? They're making a film based on a
attraction at Disney land. A film based on a roller-coaster!? Are they
nuts? No, they're not. Say whatever you want about Bruckheimer but he
knows what the audience wants to see. Pirates of the Caribbean is one
of the best films so far in late years. Pirates is a perfect movie too watch on a rainy afternoon. Classical
Sunday matine. Give me this film, some snacks, candy and a bottle of
Cola and I'm satisfied for a couple of hours. It has humor and action,
two very important thing nowadays, and it has a quite good story and
fantastic characters. You just got to like Captain Jack Sparrow. Depp,
being a brilliant actor, gives one of his best performances so far. I
don't know how much of Captain Sparrow that comes from Johnny and how
much of him that's in the script but ones thing for certain: He is one
of the most lovable fictional characters in a long time.But just because Jack is the best character this movie doesn't lack
good supporting characters. Elizabeth is a cool chick and I would like
to see her use a sword in the next movie. Barbossa is a very good
villain and the Thomson & Tompson like pirate duo on Barbossa ship is a
funny couple. Sadly enough Will Turner is a very lame character, but he
became better in the sequels. Just don't expect to see a realistic movie about piracy. This movie is
far from realistic. Like I've said before, it is a classic Sunday
matinée.So, to wrap things up, what do I think about "Caribbean"? Well, it's a
lovely place. It's a nice vacation for a couple of hour. It has sandy
beaches, great pubs and the people are wonderful. Overall, their is
only one problem with "the Caribbean". For some reason the rome is
ALWAYS GONE!

******
5 July 2005
8
I can remember going to Walt Disney World in Orlando, Florida as a
little kid and there were certain attractions that stood out in my
mind. One of the best was Pirates of the Caribbean located in Adventure
Land. This swashbuckling adventure into the heart of a pirate raid and
imagination. The ride depicts pirates pillaging, drinking, eating, and
having what seems to be a successful raid.In Gore Verbinski's epic tale of a cursed ship and its crew trying to
find their lost treasure, johnny Depp stars as the worst pirate ever,
Captain Jack Sparrow. He encounters Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) after
escaping from an island prison and his love interest Elizabeth Swann
(Neira Knightley). The three find themselves in quite the mess.When the Black Pearl sails into port, all hell breaks loose. Led by
Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), these pirates will do whatever it takes to
find their treasure. After taking Elizabeth away because she has the
missing piece, Will and Jack must find a crew brave enough, or dumb
enough to chase the Pearl.The story featuring scenes from the ride in Walt Disney World and Walt
Disney Land in California, causing this film will trigger a lot of
memories for fans of the ride. The film also tells a great story with
action, romance, and comedy. Depp is brilliant as mumbling, sometimes
heroic Jack Sparrow, getting himself nominated for an Academy Award.Another interesting aspect of the movie that is well done is the
computer generated effects like when the pirates are seen in their
"true form". This gives the movie an eye candy effect, bringing in more
viewers.Overall, this film is spectacular. Appealing on all levels of cinema
entertainment. Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl
is a movie not to be missed. In the words of Jack Sparrow, "Not all
treasure is silver and gold, mate,". This one is no exception.

******
25 May 2005
8
It was a great movie as far as the action, but it did have some stuff
that we could have done without. The dress code I would say would have
to be one of them. I prefer women with more clothes on, a modest dress
code would have made this movie a better one.It was fun seeing the funny oddball actor Johnny Depp. This was the
first movie I had ever seen him in, and the first time I had ever heard
of him. He was a really fun character in this one. I loved his accent!!My favorite line... "I can't breathe!" (splash!!) -Elizabeth Swan "you
know he's only a blacksmith...No, he's a Pirate"Great for the older individual! wouldn't recommend the younger (age 14
and under).

******
20 April 2005
8
This movie i like you know. But when i first saw it, it was
complicated. It was like "what a waste of time". Too many stupid
ghost-stories. You know i really think that of some movies the first
time, but in the 2nd it was just "oh my god, its good". And its a movie
really worth buying. I'm definitely gonna get it because Johnny Depp
and Keira Knightley is awesome. Its a real adventure that takes to dead
pirates and wannabe-pirates. Its like full of comic but that what makes
the movie all good. Most disgusting of this movies was when one of the
pirates lost the eye all the time, I really wanted them to cut out of
that one.

******
11 April 2005
9
Pirates is one of the best movies I have seen in a long time. It
actually has a plot that leads naturally from one event to the next.
The characters are portrayed superbly, there is plenty of action and
adventure, and there are of course the twists of fate that make it a
winner!Depp played his part to the fullest - a dirty, rotten, happy-go-lucky
thieving, loving pirate. I am not usually big on Depp, but this time he
did it right! The entire cast was chosen well. Nothing in the movie was
so far out of reality that it makes you think, 'Yea, right. An M-16 on
a pirate ship!' They didn't capture any airplanes in the sky, nor did
they show a brief glimpse of the microphone dangling in front of the
camera as I have seen done in other lack-luster films.It is a good story and it is fun to watch. I just know that the next
Pirates movie is going to be at least as good as the first and I am
waiting anxiously for its release sometime in '06. No matter which way
you look at it, this movie is a winner. If you haven't seen it yet, do
yourself a favor and rent or buy it.Why didn't I give it a 10 rating if I enjoyed it so much? Well, nothing
on earth is perfect - but this came close.

******
9 April 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean was an excellent movie for the family and
especially young boys. There are hardly any movies that families can
enjoy...things like Lizzy McGuire and Freaky Friday are directed toward
teenage girls - Pirates of the Caribbean can be enjoyed by male or
female and people of all ages. POTC has everything a good movie should have: action, fighting,
pirates, unspoken love. The story was intriguing and so were the
characters (Jack Sparrow in particular)... I would be interested to see
if the sequel will live up to it's predecessor - most of the time
sequels are rather mediocre. The cast is great. Orlando Bloom has a lot of talent and it's nice to
see him making a name for himself, and it was wonderful to see Johnny
Depp introduced to a new generation - he is finally getting the
recognition he deserves.

******
8 April 2005
8
This is a amazing movie and well put together Johnny Depp is amazing as
Jack. Gore did a great job and more people need to do more movies like
this. Jerry Bruckheimer has recently put together some very well done
movies. This one and Natational Treasure and King Arthur. He also did
Pearl Harbor. Kiera did a nice job, she a great English accent. Johnny
Depp job was really good. I can not wait until the next part of the
trilogy comes out.it has a well drawn-ed together cast and crew. The
story line is a match to the wonderful ride, and the movie part those
mechanical characters in the ride to life. And I hope the next one is
as big of a hit.

******
6 April 2005
9
I don't want to reiterate all the other comments here, but I have to
say one thing for Disney enthusiasts. If you are still thinking there
is no way that they could make this movie-connect it with the amusement
park attraction, and have it be compelling, you are absolutely wrong
and are missing a real joy. Some other comments here have touched on
some of the connections but they have by no means done justice. If you
are a real fan of the amusement park attraction and have paid close
attention you will not only recognize scenes but will be amazed by the
incredibly similarities of makeup and dialog.To think that someone was able to write a screenplay that accomplished
this and the director was able to reproduce these few seconds so well
and still make a compelling movie is amazing to me.If you are a Disney nut and haven't seen this film do it today!!!!!

******
30 March 2005
10
Beyond Johnny Depps acting ability, of course, he is fantastic, but,
Captain Barbosa, wow and wow, he totally committed himself to acting
this part, I was totally drawn in and enjoyed so much, by far, Captain
Barbosa's acting, its perfect.My one question is who does this music to this Movie? ITS awesome!I am told that my comment does not contain enough lines.. So, I will
try and explain more on how I really enjoyed the acting in this movie,
and how I sincerely look forward to a part two, if there be one.Its a really entertaining movie. I hope there are enough lines now to
explain how I feel about this movie..

******
30 March 2005
10
I'm trying to think of words to as not to give away any plots or
spoilers about this fantastic movie, while at the same time wishing I
could just repeat some of the memorable lines said by some of the
greatest characters ever imagined to grace the cinema. Yes, the curse
of the Black Pearl is what film-making to me is all about. As I
stretched my eyes to see if possibly someone with my last name added to
the production of The Black Pearl, I embraced all those that were
responsible for it. Truly a classic film that has it all adventure,
drama, a sense of dignity that caresses the audience with an appeal
towards the characters and story-line, and of course love, love of life
and freedom.

******
28 March 2005
8
You wouldn't have thought a movie based on a ride would be any good. In
fact, most rational people would think it was dreadful; a horribly
cynical marketing exercise. Imagine my surprise, then, at Pirates of
the Caribbean. While it would be perhaps exaggerating to say it is a
cinematic masterpiece and one of the great movies of our time, it is a
solidly entertaining film and wins brownie points on a number of
levels. Johnny Depp plays Captain Jack Sparrow (the Captain bit is very
important to him), a pirate who has no ship. When he comes to Port
Royal, the happy-go-lucky Sparrow is caught by the marines and
sentenced to hang, but he escapes when the dreaded Captain Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush) and his crew of evil scum of the earth (scum of the
sea?), attack the port and kidnap Elizabeth (Keira Knightly), the
daughter of the Governor (Jonathan Pryce). Why do they kidnap her?
Because she has the last piece of a cursed treasure they plundered
years ago, the return of which coupled with their blood will lift the
curse upon them, the curse that has turned them into walking corpses.
Of course, to say more gives away the plot twists, of which there are
several. As a viewer, I spent most of the time trying to figure out if
Sparrow is good or bad. Whose side is this guy on? Depp&#8217;s
performance is a very curious one. He speaks in no particular accent,
seemingly Irish, Australian and cockney all in one, and he leaps about
the screen, smiling an odd grin and making witty repartee with the
others. Depp apparently copied much of his performance from Keith
Richards - now that I know that I can see the resemblance (perhaps Depp
has a future as a mimic?). He is a pirate, no doubt about it, in that
he can never be trusted too far; but how far, of course, is one of the
points of the film. The rest of the cast are good too. Orlando Bloom
plays the blacksmith unwittingly caught up in Sparrow's wake, mostly to
save Elizabeth from the pirates, and does a nice job of the 'young man
at sea' routine. Rush, one of my favourite Australian actors, is well
cast as the villainous, cursed Barbossa (his eyes and voice always make
him seem like a bad guy) and Knightly is sufficient in the role of the
damsel in distress, although she comes into her own several times in
the film, which is good to see. Unusually for a film like this, the
plot and script are actually pretty good. The twists keep coming, the
story makes sense, and there's plenty for the characters to do. There
are also some very good action sequences, including the Governor's
battle with a severed hand (you have to see it) and the final fight
between Sparrow and Barbossa. Pirates of the Caribbean is not a movie
you go and see if you're into thought-provoking, meaningful and
uplifting film-making. Fortunately, I'm not. I like to be entertained,
and Pirates entertains nicely. It's funny, dramatic, suspenseful; what
more can you ask from a film? Well, actually you can ask for a lot
more, but Pirates isn't that kind of film. As it is, it earns points in
all categories, and while it's not a master stroke by director Gore
Verbinski, it is a solidly entertaining movie, with a yo heave ho and
even, at one point, a bottle of rum. Arrrrr. And so on and so forth.
Good-o-meter rating: 8/10

******
6 March 2005
10
This movie really belongs to Johnny Depp. I wonder what'd have this
movie done without him. I began to watch "Pirates of the Caribbean: The
Curse of the Black Pearl" without any idea of who Johnny Depp was and
what this movie was about. By the end of it, I was wondering, "Who is
this stunning actor acting Jack Sparrow?" I have watched some movies of
Johnny Depp without being impressed by him, hence, without concerning
about even his name. But this movie was elevated by none other's but
Johnny Depp's acting. A movie is never complete without the team-work
but someone has to be outstanding.Story, as it is obvious, is entire fiction but cleverly written and
well handled. Action sequences are simple (compared to lots of other
action flicks), but according to the story line, hence impressive.
Special effects are stunning. All actors contributed in an impressive
way. No one tried to be unreasonably clever (this is a common problem
that I have noticed in Hollywood movies as non-English viewer.) It is
not "just-another-pirates-movie". It is a must-watch.

******
5 March 2005
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a very fun
movie. It is like a ride grabbing you at the beginning, and not letting
go until the very end. It stars Johnny Depp, who did an excellent job
in the gangster film Donnie Brasco. Orlando Bloom plays Will Turner and
Elizabeth Swann is played by Keira Knightley. The director Gore
Verbinski does a great job and the special effects are to notch. A
second installment is already in the works, as this film was a success
at the box office.Pirates of the Caribbean is a sweeping action-adventure story set in an
era when villainous pirates scavenged the Caribbean seas. This roller
coaster tale teams a young man, Will Turner, with an unlikely ally in
rogue pirate Jack Sparrow. Together, they must battle a band of the
world's most treacherous pirates, led by the cursed Captain Barbossa,
in order to save Elizabeth, the love of Will's life.The real magic in the movie lies in the characters mainly Jack Sparrow.
If you like action/adventure films this is a good choice to spend a
Friday night with a few friends. You may even find yourself looking
forward to the second one like I am.

******
28 February 2005
10
As I had not really seen many films with Johnny Depp in before; I
didn't quite know what to expect. But as I have a particular love of
pirates i decided to give this one a go. I was not disappointed.Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is definitely the star. He portrays
a pirate superbly and makes the film what it is. Keira and Orlando are
also excellent.The story is adventurous and gripping. With Jack and Orlando making a
great pair and the storyline getting better and better. Will not say
more as I don't want to ruin the plot line but see this film!!! It's
great!

******
25 February 2005
10
A movie you just have too see over and over again. Brilliant
performance by Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush, they both deserve an
Oscar. The story line is quite simple, basically captain jack and will
turner both pair up to save Elizabeth, but little does will know that
jack use to be captain of the black pearl. They eventually settled
there differences and travel to isla DE meurta to find Barbossa and his
crew as they have held elizabeth captive to end there curse. but boy
did they make a big mistake, they needed the blood of will turner the
son of boostrap bill. 10 years ago barbossa and his crew left jack on
an island and stole his ship, and he wants it back. It's a fun packed
action film that will make everyone laugh, starring johnny depp,
geoffrey rush, orlando bloom, and keira knightly. If they put as much
effort into the second movie as they did with the first movie, i'm
certain it will be a hit!

******
14 February 2005
10
I recently saw this movie and immediately thought it to be one of the
greatest movies of all time. It's funny, contains great action scenes
and all the acting is outstanding. Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom and
Geoffrey are all superb. Pirates of the Caribbean contains great camera
angles. Johnny deep fits the roll of "Jack Sparrow", a clumsy and often
referred to as the worst pirate alive, perfectly. Geoffry Rush is the
perfect bad guy and Orlando Bloom can add "Will Turner" to his list of
interesting and well played characters. The best scenes in the movie
would be: 1) When Jack is talking to the English guards about him
sneaking aboard the ship in an attempt to steal it and 2) Where the
pirates invade Elizabeth's town and take her to the ship The movie is
well directed and the music is great. There is never a dull moment and
as I said before the camera angles are great. Pirates of the Caribbean
should be enjoyed by viewers of most ages and will definitely be
enjoyed by any fans of Fantasy, Action or Comedy movies!!!Overall - 9/10

******
4 February 2005
8
This is the greatest blockbuster epic ever made! It is right on the
same level as the Star Wars Trilogy, Indiana Jones Chronicles, and the
Spider-Man Movies. The movie follows Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp)
and Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) who is a blacksmith. The Black Pearl,
which is a haunted ship with a cursed crew, kidnapped the beautiful Ms.
Swann (Keira Knightley) in order to undo the curse that was bestowed
upon them by Cortes's gold. The reason was she was the holder of a gold
coin that they stole, and they needed that coin to undo the curse.
Sparrow and Turner are trying to track down and recapture the Black
Pearl and Elizabeth Swann. It is a well paced story that must be
watched closely for their are many new details revealed along the way
of the quest.The set design is impeccable, and possibly the best addition to the
film was Depp's incredible performance. He was flawless as Sparrow with
great comical timing that made him really stand out in the dry acting
submitted by all the other actors. He definitely deserved his Oscar
Nomination and probably should have won (i haven't seen mystic river).The only flaws were the skeleton pirates were a little lame and Orlando
Bloom is possibly the worst actor ever, but he didn't ruin the film
because we had Depp to look and marvel at so you forget about Bloom.
Overall, this film is one of the greatest summer releases ever made and
should go down as a great film in the eyes of critics and audiences. I
can't wait for the sequels which will hopefully be as strong as the
Star Wars, Indiana Jones, and Spider-Man sequels were.8/10

******
4 February 2005
10
What a fantastic film. truly a stroke of genius for Disney. i must have
seen this over 100 times, most of my friends and myself are constantly
quoting it. Johnny Depp totally steals the film as Captain Jack Sparrow
and this role has truly cemented him as one of my 4 favourite living
actors. (the other 3 being Keannu Reeves, Nicolas Cage and Clint
Eastwood). There isn't a weak character or a poorly played part in the
film. The bit where Jack Sparrow is running and being shot at and is
trying to bat the bullets out the way with the palm of his hand makes
me cry with laughter every time i watch it. Geoffrey Rush is deeply
inspired as Barbossa and Kiera Knightley is one of the brightest
English roses around. A must see for any movie fan who wants a good
story, good acting and a few good laughs along the way!

******
4 January 2005
10
It is usually difficult for a film to successfully combine different
types of genre and remain enjoyable and easy to follow. I expect it is
even harder to do this when the film is developed for children's
viewing. However, with this film that combination was, in my opinion, a
success. Pirates of the Caribbean emerged as an excellent blend of
romance, mild horror, action and adventure. Also, the comedy - provided
by the wonderful Johnny Depp - makes it irresistible to watch at least
once. The actors themselves give an outstanding performance, though
none so outstanding as Depp himself. He plays Captain Jack Sparrow, a
pirate with only one thing on his mind. He meets Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom) who is in love with the Governor's daughter, Elizabeth (Keira
Knightly). During their high seas adventure, we, the audience, get a
chance to admire the superb special effects which help the entire movie
hit us with such an impact that we will remember it for decades to
come. I give this movie 10/10.

******
2 January 2005
8
How could Boot Strap Bill die (ie not cursed), when the rest of the
crew of the Pearl was left to be cursed?in the movie, Boot Strap Bill, seems to have given his son (Will
Turner) a gold coin, part of the cursed treasure... when Will is
discovered floating in the water Elizabeth takes the coin from his
necklace. We later discover that the crew of the pearl is cursed and
cannot die. Why is it that BootStrap is not cursed and left to a
similar fate. Instead we are told that he is already dead!I would love to have someone help me with this failure in plot logic.Thank you.Kipton Toronto

******
1 January 2005
8
What great fun this movie is! It is in this spirit of fun that I base
my high esteem for this excellent, entertaining movie and consider it
one of my favorites that I will watch over and over. It is funny,
exciting, ahem, er.... sexy, and adventurous escapist fun! It is not
meant to be authentic or seriously considered (against the likes of
Master and Commander). Rather, it is grand art of a different sort. The
key element in this film that made it superior to other pirate fantasy
films is the casting. I thought both Johnny Depp and Geoffery Rush were
magnificent! It is their endlessly entertaining, outstanding
performances that made Pirates of the Caribbean into an instant classic
that is very repeatedly viewable. Keira Knightly, Orlando Bloom,
Jonathan Pryce and all the rest of the cast were all great also. When I
was 8 my father took me to Disneyland for the first time. Although I
was apprehensive at first (seeing the talking skull and dropping down
through darkness into the caverns in a boat), I ended up loving the
Pirates of the Caribbean ride and wanted to ride it again and again!
This movie perfectly evoked that same feeling and reaction... creepy
apprehension turning into fun adventure and humor... jolly family fun.
The various references to the Disneyland ride in the movie just
thrilled me. I wholeheartedly recommend it!

******
30 December 2004
10
pirates of the Caribbean is a excellently made film that will make your
side hurt with laughter and your mind sour with delight as actors like
Johny Depp and Orlando bloom join together to make this film a complete
success and of course you can not forget people like Kirea Knightly and
Geoffrey rush who help make the film what it is. this is one of Walt
Disney's best non-animated films that i a have ever seen and would
recommend it to anyone although it is a twelve i think that any member
of the family would enjoy this excellent film. if you are into
fantasy/action films then this is differently the film for you it
contain the right amount of fantasy to make you realise that it is a
film not a true story. it contains the right amount of action to keep
you watching and the right amount of horror/mystery to keep you on the
edge of your seat therefore i give this film 9.5 out of ten

******
23 December 2004
9
A Disney ride and now a movie. Alright, alright, alright - rode it,
seen it, done it, big deal. Not quite with this movie. Set right out
the attraction at Walt Disney World, this movie has the "feel" of the
ride done to a tee. The sets are wonderfully brought to life and if you
look carefully, you will see several aspects of the ride in the movie,
most notably the scene where the dog has the key to jail cell and the
prisoners just can't get the dog to bring them the key. Best quote in
the movie - "Jack Sparrow, you are the worst pirate I've ever heard
of." "Ah, but you have heard of me." Makes the movie, shows what kind
of character Jack Sparrow is and what kind of actor Johnny Depp is to
pull it off. Go rent it, go buy it. Just go see it.

******
25 November 2004
10
I was afraid of this movie at first. One of my friends held a pirate
costume party the day it opened, and then we all went to see the movie.
Being a Disney movie, I had low expectations. This movie was
surprisingly good. Sadly, not all the acting was noteworthy. Johnny
Depp carried this movie, but he had help from Geoffrey Rush. Orlando
Bloom was dull and Keira Knightley was only there to look at.Graphics - I was not disappointed in any of the scenes. I was quite
impressed with the cursed crew jumping in and out of darkness in the
final fight scene.The movie seemed like it was only an hour and a half long when it was
actually over 2 hours. This is the first Gore Verbinski movie I have
seen, and I was quite impressed. This had the potential to be a
terrible flop, but between Verbinski and Depp, it came out to be a
superb movie for the time period.

******
27 October 2004
10
This film has to be one of the best Pirate films of al time, it has
comedy, good action, brilliant stars, and sexy actresses (keira
knightley) i love this film because it is such a side breaker, it had
me in stitches so many times, an all time classic, i don't really want
to see the sequel though because i am afraid that it will be rubbish
and will spoil the first one, i am going to see it anyway just to see
how it goes but i have confidence that Johnny and Orlando will bring
yet another great swashbuckling movie to our screens. I regard Johnny
as a hilarious joker who has obviously had one to many drinks down the
pub!, nevertheless he is great in this film and a great actor
altogether. I also liked Orlando Blooms performance, he is one of my
favourite actors and is great with a gun or sword, i mad a reference to
a gun because of Ned Kelly another one of his classics, one i must
publish a review on, i am new around here so i am a bit rusty about it
all bit i am sure i will fit in fine.

******
24 October 2004
10
This is one of Disney's best. Based on the ride (although not a whole
lot of reference..I went on the ride after having seen the movie) the
viewers are in for movie ride of a lifetime. Full of excitement,
surprise, and wonderful special effects, with an intriguing storyline
behind it, well it's worth it's weight in gold. Johnny Depp as Cpt.
Jack Sparrow was wonderfully casted. No one else could have done as
spectacular as a job as him, with his quirks and oddities. He was
"gyped" so to speak out of a well deserved Oscar in this one. As a
woman, he somehow managed to be so attractive in this, despite his
black and gold teeth, dirty hair and fingernails and constant
inebriation. He has said he "modeled" the character after long time
British rock star, Keith Richards and he had it right on the nose! No
matter how hard you try, you can not dislike him in this movie..right
down to his "eunich" comment to Orlando's character "Will" while
fighting in the shop. The movie has a few twists and can be a little
confusing (how is it that "Will" survived without becoming one of the
living dead, when he was wearing the stolen medallion??) but if you
watch it more than once or carefully, its there for the viewer to
figure out (spells prequel). Geoffrey Rush is perfect as the villain, a
shame he won't be in the "sequel". Ms. Knightley, a spunky, beautiful
newcomer, perfectly casted as the damsel in distress. This is a must
see. The song "Drink up me 'earties yo ho" worth it, Cpt Jack capturing
his horizon, the skeletons in the moonlight..very Disney, but very
worth it. The reason I gave it a 10/10, I can't think of any way to
improve it. And it's one movie I am eagerly awaiting the sequel to.
Hopefully, Johnny Depp will take home the Oscar for the next one,
because he deserved it.

******
2 October 2004
10

I think this is the best film ever, and I don't care what anyone else
thinks! I've seen it at least 25 times, and never get bored of it.My favourite part is when Jack Sparrow grabs Elizabeth Swann and says,
"Gentlemen, m'lady, you will all remember this as the day that you
almost caught captain Jack Sparrow!" He is a great actor and plays his
part very, very well. He's so funny to watch, and Orlando is a good
actor too, and Keira Knightley. Anyone who hasn't seen this film must
be mad, as everyone should see the greatest film of all time!!!!!Oh, and I voted: 10 p.s Orlando Bloom is fit! Don't forget to watch
Calcium Kid too.


******
25 September 2004
10

 From the first few moments of the movie, you know that you are in for a
treat. Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom pair up in this swashbuckling
adventure that will have you laughing on the edge of your seat the
entire time. Never without a witty comment, Depp plays the part of
Captain Jack Sparrow absolutely perfectly. Bloom, slightly
over-dramatic the entire time, makes you laugh almost more than Depp!
This is my all-time favorite movie (I saw it 5 times in theaters and
over 20 times at home!) and I don't know a single person who dislikes
it! "A wedding- I love weddings! Drinks all around!" - Captain Jack Sparrow


******
23 September 2004
10

I thought that the film was wonderful! I enjoyed watching this film as
it was almost heart felt. Johnny Depp played a great part as Captain
Jack Sparrow, i have watched many of Johnny's films and so far i would
have to say that this one beats the rest. Well Done you Johnny! Sorry
about the Oscar ! :( : ( It was a really well made film ! Can't wait
for the sequel ! I am hoping for new exciting adventures as Captain
Jack and his crew take on the black pearl ! I also love the play-right
and the comedy that the movie holds after watching it the second time,
you hear things that you don't hear, when watching it for the first
time ! excellent, i loved it all !


******
19 September 2004
8

At the first time, I wanted to see this movie because of the actors,
Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom. But, it was a funny and very adventure
movie. I like the setting, so classic. And Johnny Depp, of course, he
was very funny even if he didn't look too handsome on that movie. The
creature was good, spooky but made me laugh. Esp. the visual effect
when they turned from human to skull. And Kiera Knightly made me
jealous when she kissed Orlando Bloom. Every girl wants it, no doubt. O
yeah, Johnny Depp won for best actor on Mtv Movie Award. It's proper
for him. I'm very want to find out what will happen on the next sequel.
I hope it will be more fantastic. Great job for all of the casts and
crews,


******
7 September 2004
10

I don't think I can get enough of this movie. Every actor and actress
is absolutely brilliant, and plays their role perfectly. Every scene
has its place and is part of the plot. Even the script is memorable and
well done. Everyone deserves an award. When you see it for the first time, you see many twists, and they come
together as the movie progresses. But when you see it for the second
time, you pick up more on what the characters were really thinking. Overall, this movie is absolutely brilliant.PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN : THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL (2003). 10 out
of 10.


******
6 September 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is plainly a
must-see. Starring Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley, Johnny Depp,
Geoffrey Rush. A woman who found a strange pirate medallion when she
was a girl is soon chased by an immortal pirate crew, and must be saved
by her admirer, who must team up with a clumsy pirate and a crew. Soon,
they set off to save her from the legendary ship of pirates called the
Black Pearl. Trust me, it's WAY more interesting than it sounds! A
Production by Jerry Bruckheimer and Gore Verbinski (Director of The
Ring)Grade: 10/10MPAA Rating: PG-13My Rating: Ages 9 and up (violence, frightening images, mature themes,
language, some innuendo)


******
20 August 2004
10

this movie was amazing. whether ur a fan of action, adventure, romance,
or thriller, this movie was right for you. i thought everyone did good
in the movie and I'm glad they're bringing another pirates of the
Caribbean in 2006. the movie starred johnny depp, Orlando bloom,
Geoffrey rush, and keira knightley. i guarantee that you wont be
disappointed if you watch pirates of the Caribbean. the movie has an
excellent soundtrack, great sword fighting scenes, and if you purchase
the DVD, tons of great features. even though its a Disney movie, it is
for adults as well as teenagers. i thought it would be for kids since
it was by Disney, but the movie was more for teenagers and adults. all
in all i think that the movie of the year 2003, was Pirates of the
Caribbean. I really recommend getting the DVD or if not at least
watching the movie!overall pirates of the Caribbean was an A+...5 STARS


******
14 July 2004
10

"But where's the rum gone!"All Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp, who's Erroll Flynn meets Keith
Richards) wants is to drink rum, swagger and regain control of the beloved
ship he was cast from, The Black Pearl. Its convenient that he stumbles
across Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), who both may be exploited to get the
Pearl back, and has a mission of his own, rescuing the princess, which Depp
can go along with...Rousing, hearty, swashbuckling good entertainment. If Hollywood blockbusters
were always this much fun (and always had Johnny Depp to bolster them and
make them tongue-in-cheek), then i'd say more power to them. Its travesties
like Pearl Harbour that insult the public's sense of taste.If you can overlook the lack of effort and skills from Orlando Bloom (doing
his best Matthew Broderick impersonation - which is easy, just make your
face as blank as possible)8/10. Its a masterpiece of the order of Back to the Future and Raiders of
the Lost Ark. It lost big points from me because i found Will Turner and
Elizabeth Swann to be corny and cliche, and am still amazed that people
consider what Orlando Bloom does "acting." Plus, and maybe this is my fault,
but i saw it three times within the space of a month, and by the third time
its appeal was waning. It seems that unlike something like Mr Bean, or
something as visually beautiful as Lawrence of Arabia, it doesn't have
unlimited replayability. That probably means that its not to deep. Which it
isn't - its very surface entertainment - which means you can only reap so
much value from it."And really bad eggs... Drink up me 'earties, yo ho!"

******
10 July 2004
8
Pirates of the Caribbean : The Curse of the Black Pearl, directed by
Gore Verbinksi (The Ring, and more importantly creator of the Budweiser
Frogs) and starring Johnny Depp (Edward Scissorhands) Orlando Bloom
(Lord of the Rings) Keira Knightly (Love Actually) and as the bad guy
Geoffrey Rush (House on Haunted Hill) put this together with a superb
cast of extras and back of actors and you have a great cast. That's
exactly what Verbinski was able to do for this movie.It all starts with the Governors daughter Elizabeth Swan (Knightly) as
a young girl and her meeting with Will Turner (Bloom) although I
thought this was a clever idea at first it did seem a little cheesy but
mainly for one reason. A certain Mr Gibbs (Kevin McNally) is on the
ship and shares his thoughts on Pirates, well they're not the thoughts
of love let me tell you, but yet later in the movie he has become
one?!?! Maybe I missed something along the lines but I don't think the
drink alone will have destroyed his naval career and led him to a life
that he so hated. Anyways I digress. This is the point in which Miss
Swan sees the feared and fabled ship the Black Pearl, now personally
after seeing the wreckage that she saw I'd probably try to stay away
from pirates but not our miss Swan, in-fact she's probably more suited
to being one herself than being just the Governors daughter. Soon enter
Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp) and his rum induced drunken state that
seems to last the whole 137 minutes that this movie lasts (not that I
blame him, so long working alongside Mr Bloom and I'd probably be
drinking too) Sparrow is probably one of the best thought out and acted
characters I've seen in a long time really, too often you see wooden
performances because actors just turn up and read the script to the
camera, Johnny Depp has gone into a lot of effort to make what he
thinks and what is a believable character (hence the Oscar nomination)
his great escapes from Captian Norrington are although not breathtaking
are cleverly thought out.But what is a good pirate movie without a great villain? And that's
exactly what Captain Barbossa (Rush) and his crew (including the Office
star Mackenzie Crook) bring to the screen. This cursed band of pirates
have only one thing to look for and that's the piece of amazon gold
that currently resides around the neck of Elizabeth (remember the first
part with Turner? Well he was wearing this gold around his neck and the
lovely Miss Swan took it from him, yes that's right politicians and
their families are just plain thieves) so when Elizabeth hides her last
name fearing that they're just after the Governors daughter she chooses
the wrong one in Turner. So the ride begins and the story is told of
Will's father being a pirate on the Black Pearl who like the rest of
the crew was cursed, the curse? Well whenever the moon hits them there
true selves are brought to the surface. Great CGI is used for these
exceptional looking crewmen which just adds to whole experience of the
movie based on the Walt Disney ride, but in the whole was it worth the
price of admission? Well if I'd paid when I saw it at the cinema.yes
it would have been fortunately for me I was working there at the time
so I got to see Pirates not only for free but about three days before
the general release. Overall I'd give this movie 9/10 just lacking in
that one aspect about Mr Gibbs I'm afraid Gore, otherwise fantastic

******
27 June 2004
8

When a movie has an actor whose performance really stands out, especially in
some mindless action pic, it's tempting to just give him all the credit for
the movie, but I was surprised to find that there is a lot more to recommend
the movie than just Depp's fascinating performance.  The movie as a whole is
quite amusing, the action is well handled, especially the highly
entertaining sword duel between Depp and Bloom and it's really pretty
imaginative for something that was created just to capitalize on the success
of an amusement park ride.A movie like this is clearly designed to have a great, flashy performance. 
Depp was hired for that role and did it beautifully, but if not Depp, the
producers would have undoubtedly gone for another actor who could give an
over-the-top comic performance.  You could actually have a pretty good movie
if you replaced Depp with someone more generic, but the movie couldn't
really work without a big performance here.The producers were very fortunate to get Depp, who is a wonderful and
inventive actor.  His gives Jack Sparrow a loose-limbed charm that makes you
suspect he's always slightly drunk, but while a quirky pirate he still gives
you that Errol-Flynn sort of swashbuckle.  I wouldn't want to in any way
diminish his credit, but I just wanted to point out that the movie is
consistently well-acted and stylish in its own right.

******
21 June 2004
10

i think that this is the best film that he has done so far, i have also
just seen chocolate and i recommend it to any johnny fans coz they will
love it. i have nothing else 2 say. but has anybody seen benny and joon
coz i have heard that that is really good and i wondered if anyone will
recommend it. in this film johnny looks so hot in his outfit and i know
quite a lot of people who love him just as much as i do, so i beat them
up all the time. ohh, i also recommend (if that is how u spell it!)
sleepy hollow coz it is really good, but he doesn't look as good as he
does in potc, i think it is his hair, anyway i love the film and i
cannot wait for the second one and there is a rumor that there is going
to be a second 1. love ya.


******
24 May 2004
8

FANTASTIC!!! 9 out of 10 at least. A great combination of action,
adventure, comedy, mystery and a touch of romance. All in real Disney
style. Anyone who has been on the "Pirates of the Caribbean" Disney
ride will notice a few odd jokes that others don't see, so you'll get a
few extra laughs. Johnny Depp is hilarious, the special effects are
ground breaking and edge of the art, the fight sequences are fantastic,
the music is addictive, and this whole film is a feature you'll want to
watch again and again. This is a film that almost anyone can enjoy but
I would particularly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of Johnny Depp
(from hell, sleepy hollow, secret window) or the producer Jerry
Bruckheimer (bad boys II, top gun, armageddon, pearl harbor). If you
enjoy this film then look out for its sequel due out in 2006.


******
26 April 2004
10

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARLRated: PG-13 for Action Adventure ViolenceGenre: Action/Adventure/Comedy/Fantasy/ThrillerStarring: Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush and Keira
KnightleyStar Rating: ***** out of 5At first when I was looking at lots of previews for Pirates of the
Caribbean, I thought it wasn't going to be that good but then when I heard
lots of excellent comments on the movie, I decided to change my mind and
watch the movie. Also after the movie had it's first weekend in the movie
theaters, I was reading the entertainment section in the newspaper and saw
that Disney announced that they were going to make a sequel to Pirates of
the Caribbean and I thought that was fast especially since it made
$46,630,690 million dollars on it's opening weekend!
The movie is based on a theme park ride at Disneyland or Disney World. I
think because I don't know which one.
Pirates of the Caribbean is a sweeping action-adventure story set in an
era
when villainous pirates scavenged the Caribbean seas. There is a curse on
this gold medallion for whenever it shines that is when Captain Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush) and his ghostly crew awake! When the Governor's daughter,
Elizabeth Swan (Keira Knightley) is captured by these ghostly buccaneers,
Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) teams up with an rogue pirate named Jack
Sparrow
(Johnny Depp) to fight these ghostly pirates!SPOILER WARNING: Will and Jack attempt to recapture The Black Pearl ship,
save the British navy, and relinquish a fortune in forbidden treasure
thereby lifting the curse of the Pirates of the Caribbean.I really liked how this movie had lots of action and funny parts! I
thought
Johnny Depp did a really good job has a pirate and plus he was also really
funny! Orlando Bloom did a good job too!
I also thought the beautiful Keira Knightley did a great job also! I think
Keira Knightley is one of the most beautiful girls I have ever seen
especially with her looks and her sexy English accent!BOTTOM LINE: GREAT MOVIE WITH ACTION, ADVENTURE, THRILLS AND
HUMOR!

******
22 April 2004
10

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is my fave film
EVER!Lots of people wont agree with the EVER part, but its just gr8! its
exciting,
romantic(kinda,not really my thing) and funny! AND it has the two best
people in
the world in it, Jonny Depp and Orlando Bloom, they are gr8 to watch for
there
great acting and just great to look at!!anyway...BYE BYE! if u aint seen this film watch it NOW! Your really
missin
out!CYA ALL LATER!

******
18 March 2004
8

Although Pirates of the Caribbean is not a film likely to win acadamy awards
this is a film that you really cant find fault with.
The story is fairly simple , a little like a fairy tale , which gives it
charm.The cast is magnifiscent. Jeffrey Rush is superb as the baddie as is
Johnny Depp as the comic hero. What is good to see is that he seems to have
mastered the English accent unlike in the film 'From Hell'and he is charming
with it.
This film reminds me a little of Jason and The Argonaults but with more
humour and recommend if you have not seen it do so.
8 out of 10.

******
17 January 2004
9

I enjoyed it when I saw it at the theater, but I was very much sleep
deprived at the time so I didn't catch everything.  On having gotten the
DVD, I can say that there are no plot holes are such as I thought there were
then.  It is also still a very good and funny movie when I watch after
having loads of sleep.  Why oh why, though is this movie rated pg-13?  Seems
to me it should be pg easily.  I mean pg means parental guidance and I do
believe many eight year olds would love it.  Just seems the ratings board
has forgotten that movies like Jaws and all the earlier James Bond movies
were rated pg.  I just think they under use that rating to a ridiculous
extreme these days.  I also thought Spider-man should have been pg.  Well
enough of that, this movie is thoroughly enjoyable for the whole family with
action comedy and all that good stuff.

******
12 January 2004
10

From its very first opening scene, to the last.....Pirates of the
Carribean
gives a swashbuckling sensation of greatness to the movies of today. It
matches the Lord of the Rings trilogy in greatness, and makes you laugh
every few seconds. Johnny Depp sashays into the scenes with a
convincingly
piraty manner, a rum soaked pirate with no home to go to. His witty
lines,
funny nature and great acting abilitys are amazing, he is convincingly
the
one and only "Captain Jack Sparrow." He leaves most of the handsome
heroics, dueling and all of the loving to Orlando Bloom, a major hottie,
who seems to be made for acting out extremly handsome young men with a
slightly Pirate nature about them in love with gorgeous woman such as
Kiera
Knightly, who plays Elizabeth Swann, the beautiful young governers
daughter, is a great actress, and manages to look amazing in every
picture
ever taken of her. Geoffery Rush draws back his eyeballs and speaks in a
convincingly evil tone, and when you see his equally evil crew you think
"how much makeup did these guys need to make them looking that....ugly?"
It
was..in fact, two hours work every day....at least, for Jack Danport who
plays a great role as Pinnel the bloodthirsty pirate. Ok, lets
review.....we
have Johnny-the great and unique actor with a great sense of humor,
Orlando-the handsome great guy who loves to act, Kiera-a new girl in the
world of film who manages to stand out from everyone else, Geoffery-a
well
known and great actor....plus so many many many many many many many many
more!!!!!!! Including lots of people from St. Vincent, the harbor in the
Carribean where most of the movie was filmed, and the Lady Washington who
plays the "Interceptor." all in all...this is the best movie I have ever
seen.  

******
7 December 2003
10

Pirates of the Caribbean is in my opinion the best film in the world apart
from Lord of the Rings!!!, Will Turner has got to be the best character in
that, but jack is also good,i would give this movie 10 out of 10

******
29 November 2003
8

a witty script sees Depp steal the show as Captain Jack Sparrow in a role
whose origins might have an interesting story to be told. The film is cliche
stuff with the men witty, backstabbing, dishonourable rogues and the women
suiting themselves, slapping men about, changing their minds without rhyme
or reason and everyone living happily ever after. Pure fantasy, see it but
don't believe it.

******
3 November 2003
10

This movie is brilliant. It has the two best and H.O.T.E.S.T men EVER. I
mean Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom. They're just brilliant together and
funny. If you haven't seen this movie you must be nuts because its the best
film of the year!(so far) Its got a bit of everything: action, romance, and
comedy. It setting in old times and in the Caribbean so its set in a
beautiful place, especially of Johnny Depp. This is a must see movie!!!


******
3 November 2003
10

The best film I have seen for a long time, the story was great and I
thought
all the characters were perfectly suited for the people they played and I
thought Johnny Depp was extremely funny. I can't wait for the next one to
come out.

******
1 November 2003
9

I have mostly praise for Pirates. Johnny Depp absolutely carries the movie
with his exceptionally brilliant, somewhat comedic, performance as Captain
Jack Sparrow. He was everything you could imagine a pirate to be - a sly
thief with a swagger in his step and nothing but a desire to sail his
beloved ship on the high seas. Orlando Bloom (personally, my favorite
actor)gave a nice performance as heroic blacksmith Will Turner and Kiera
Knightly played Turner's captured love interest Elizabeth Swann. Also,
great
performances by Geoffrey Rush as Jack Sparrow's undead enemy Captain
Barbossa and Jack Davenport(whom I love in the British sitcom, Coupling)
as
Commodore Norrington. Another great attribute of this film was it's
soundtrack. Klaus Badlet hit the nail on the head..perfect Pirate music! I
only had two problems with the film. First, there were questions
pertaining
to the plot that should've been answered such as, why a Turner's blood was
needed to break the curse. (It is possible that that question was answered
but I missed it.)Also, the fight scenes between the British and the
skeleton-pirates were a bit drawn out and could've been shorter. However,
overall, this movie was one of the best times I've had at the movies in a
long time!

******
1 November 2003
10

jack sparrow has got to be one of the best characters in movie history!!!
I
loved him before he even said his first line. johnny depp played him
fantastically, and orlando bloom, keira knightley and geoffrey rush were
brilliant in role too, and not forgetting mackenzie crook from TV series
"the office". the whole film was thoroughly enjoyable, and perhaps the
best
thing about it was its' unpredictability!!! it has action, romance, and
the
part with the crew walking across the sea bed was quite creepy! I think
that
whoever you are, there is bound to be an aspect of this film you will
love.

******
30 October 2003
9

This is a nice and clever film. It keeps the spectator interested from
beginning to the end. It has tasteful humor and lots of action. The romance,
although somewhat trivial, is nicely staged and the character played by
Johny Depp steals the performance. This is an, all in all, very good movie
to see.

******
30 October 2003
10

When I first saw the film as a trailer I definitely wanted to watch it. I
mean it had Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom what more could a girl ask for.The film in my opinion deserves 5/5 stars. Not only did it have a strong
cast but also it was also filmed excellently. The film had an essence of
comedy, bags full of action and adventure. Plus the special effects were
mind blowing.
Now it wasn't only the film that was brilliant the ships were magnificent
and the costumes were certainly authentic. The Black Pearl and the
Interceptor in my opinion were indeed classy ships.
I certainly can't wait till the film is out on DVD/VHS. My recommendation
is
to see it anywhere possible.


******
30 October 2003
10

This is my #4 greatest movie ever made. Great laughs all the way through,
PERFECT acting. Excellent action scenes, a real smile-as-you-watch movie.
Perfect directing by Verbinski. Can't wait for the sequel!Brilliant.
Absolutely brilliant.

******
29 October 2003
10

When I first heard that Disney was going to be making a movie
inspired
from the theme park ride, Pirates of the Caribbean, I laughed, `Oh my
God,
they're getting desperate for new material now.' The trailers came out
for
the movie, featuring sword fighting, skeletal ghost-pirates, and the
seemingly out of place Johnny Depp; I was very much intrigued. I walked i
nto
the cinema opening day, having no expectations about its entertainment or
general value. Silly me, I forgot to heed the warning from the
advertisements: `Prepare to be blown out of the water.' I absolutely
loved
the film from beginning to end! Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of
the
Black Pearl is a great movie because of the magnificent actors, the
engaging
story, and the reminiscence of some much loved old-time adventure
films.
At first, the prospect of a pirate that walks and talks like Rolling
Stone Keith Richards with the haughty egomaniacal mentality of Warner
Brother's Pepé le Pew may seem rather outlandish. However, Johnny Depp
manages to make this blend very credible and comically entertaining as
Curse
of the Black Pearl's purveyor of eternal piratical adventure, Captain
Jack
Sparrow. A mouth full of gold teeth and a often slurred cockney accent
make
a wonderful source for a symphonic cacophony of witty lines such as the
soon-to-be classic retort to a snooty British naval commodore's
observation
that he is the `worst pirate I've ever heard of.' Depp's Captain Sparrow
smugly replies, `But you have heard of me.' It is the opinion of some
critics that Depp's portrayal `steals' the show (you say `steal,' Captain
Sparrow would say, `Commandeer: it's a nautical term'). However crucial
to
the success of this movie, Depp's performance is not the only one
noteworthy. No one could surpass Geoffrey Rush's gritty, undead persona
that
is the spirit of the delightfully, fiendishly cunning villain Captain
Barbossa. Taking the more traditional route in terms of pirate look,
speech,
and mannerisms (did I hear him say `Arrr'?), Rush nevertheless
accomplishes
freshness to his character that establishes him as an archetypal but
menacing `baddy' who is threatening not only in his cursed skeletal form
but
also his yellow-toothed, yellow-eyed, fully-fleshed leering scallywag.
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley as Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann
respectively, fit very nicely into their pegs of the star-crossed lovers
thrust into this grand adventure that is lovingly referred to by its fans
as
`POTC.'
The story, by Shrek screenwriters Terry Rossio and Ted Elliot, has
the
feel of traditional epic adventure movies with a tongue-in-cheek humor
employed to hint at the movie's theme-park ride roots. In one scene, a
key-carrying dog cocks his head at three pirate prisoners whistling and
waving a bone to lure the mangy mutt toward their cell door. A parrot
slowly
screeches through the rolling fog an eerie forewarning of threat: `Dead
men
tell no tales!' A scene with Will Turner and Jack Sparrow touring the
pirate
island of Tortuga reveals buccaneer party antics such as bar brawls,
busty
babes, and of course, lots of rum drinking. Such is the soul of the
famous
attraction in Disneyland, California. You will never get to a moment in
Pirates of the Caribbean where you will be remotely jaded. Around every
corner are spooks to make your skin crawl, sword fights to quicken your
pulse, and tension relieving wisecracks to split your sides. The comedy
is
often very refreshingly intellectual for a so-called kid's movie.
Pleasingly, a lot of the humor is geared toward adults yet still
appropriate
to present to kids. Many adults found themselves laughing more than their
children.
A couple of well-known, classic movies come to mind to which I can
compare to Curse of the Black Pearl. They are: Raiders of the Lost Ark,
The
Princess Bride and Star Wars. Curse of the Black Pearl has the
fundamental
nature of the classic adventures of George Lucas' ultimate American hero,
Dr. Henry Jones, Jr. (AKA Indiana Jones). Captain Jack Sparrow is our new
`Indy.' He fences villains and dodges perils on quests requiring bravery,
faith, and a little help from his friends-old and new. Will Turner, in
exchange is the new Wesley of The Princess Bride: the lover turned
pirate.
The situational absurdity and word wit of The Princess Bride is imminent
in
Pirates of the Caribbean in scenes such as Jack Sparrow's final escape
from
the British navy and his accord with the commodore. Pirates of the
Caribbean
also shares the element of total immersion into the world of its
characters
(and a fan following sure to eventually match) with the original Star
Wars
film. Fans want to dress like the characters and they debate technical
and
philosophical aspects of the film with others (such as `How are Will and
Jack able to hold a overturned rowboat under water, trap the breathing
air
within it, and not float to the surface of the ocean?' and `What more
specifically are the motivations behind Captain Barbossa's severe hatred
of
Jack Sparrow?').
Thankfully, fanatics will have more to ponder and discuss when the
film's sequel is released some time within the next few years. The
principal
actors have expressed passion and interest in a chance at meeting with
their
alter egos for a second, and perhaps even a third time. Frankly, I am
enthusiastically and impatiently awaiting the arrival of the continuing
tale
of Captain Jack Sparrow and his trusty ship, the Black
Pearl.


******
17 September 2003
8

excellent script, and the pace is dizzying sometimes.
performances remind Xmen 2, all in synergy for the movieand no primadonas.
Depp is commendable neverthelles, quite funny
but but a better qockney accent man!:) all others was so
realistic.
I just had to nug.
Good film.

******
15 September 2003
8

- Pirates of the Caribbean: 8/10I went to watch this movie earlier, having heard all the hype. I was very
doubtful that I'd like this, as Disney made it. Boy, was I surprised. This
was definitely one of the superior "epic" movies of the last few years. Not
only was the storyline entertaining and never boring, but the cast was just
awesome. Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, and Geoffrey Rush were terrific in
their roles, and the supporting cast was really good. Johnny Depp deserves
special mention. What an actor! He brought the role of Jack Sparrow to life
with such a majestic performance. Now for my one complaint of the movie, and
one that I expected, given that it was Disney. Way too many
out-of-character/setting one liners/jokes/tension-breakers... whatever you
want to call them, every modern day American movie seems to have them. There
were little flaws too that can be easily overlooked, like one of the cursed
pirates using the term "spitting image", which can't be more than 30 years
old (and this movie is set in the days of pirates). No more complaining
though, this was a wonderful, vibrant movie that everyone of any age should
see. The special FX were awesome too, and I loved the main theme from the
soundtrack. Depp deserves an Oscar for his role, and should be the most
pursued actor in Hollywood now.

******
15 September 2003
8

I've been waiting for a good pirate film for so long...its about time they
finally made one.   And they didn't miss a step, either.   This film had
everything a good pirate movie needs...and Johnny Depp to boot.   His
performance in this is one that is hard to top.   I've rarely seen some
one
become the character so completely.   What a star.     This could have
gone
wrong in so many ways, and they managed to avoid them all.   Absolutly
thoroughly enjoyed it.  

******
31 August 2003
9

this is probably the best movie shown after the last year episode of
LOTR.
the story plot is really fantastic. And lots of unexpected shots as well,
right from the first appearance of Johnny Depp.
i hope there is sequel.

******
31 August 2003
9

I thought I'd never see Johnny Depp doing yet another stunning
performance
like he did in Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas, but he proved me wrong. He
plays with pretty much the same incredible skill and yet again manages to
make a good film excellent. Really worth seeing!

******
29 August 2003
9

It helps if you have been on the synonymic ride at Disneyland as it serves
as the inspiration to the movie.  This was good old fashioned fun.  I took
my children (15 and 13) and they loved it.  For me it worked on several
levels.  There were in jokes for people who had been on the ride, Several
nautical jokes which 'sailed' (sorry) over the heads of landlubbers and
spectacle galore.  We got pushed into going by our 13 year old daughter
who
rather likes Orlando Bloom but I thought all the cast did a very good job
even if Johnny Depp rather stole the showAll in all - better than I expected.

******
27 August 2003
9

Johnny Depp is an extraordinary actor, Orlando Bloom is dashinglyhandsome, and Rush is baaad. . . Now throw in the mix a spiritedheroine and a fabulous cast of supporting actors--plus aninteresting, fun story--and you have the incredibly entertaining'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003)'.Definitely ranks in my top 5 most entertaining movies of
2003.

******
12 August 2003
9

I'm happy with my life.  I have good friends, a pretty girlfriend and an
odd
family(but who hasn't).  After watching this film I realised I would trade
them ALL to be Jack Sparrow!  Johnny Depp brought to life a character that
is so damn cool it's suprising that the set didn't freeze over.Everyone else in this movie, which is an excellent movie by the way, play
their roles well but Depp just makes them look ordinary with his
outstanding
performance.  He is so comfortable in front of a camara, if he was anymore
relexed he'd fall over.  This film is worth seeing for him
alone.Rest of the film?  Very good fun, I can't remember the last time I came
out
of a film with a big smile on my face.  Special effects do there job but
don't take over the film, which makes a nice change.In summery, the best film i've seen this year.  Johnny Depp for President!
Legend.


******
3 August 2003
9

Whoever the genius is that decided to make a movie out of a Disneyland ride,
instead of the other way around, thank you. This movie is a ride. Don't look
for anything other than a lot of action, fun, a few funny lines, and a
riveting performance by Johnny Depp. Costuming, sets, music, sound all
deserve nominations. This is Depps best performance. He's an actor I respect
because he's willing to expose his career to off beat roles. His supporting
cast, including Orlando Bloom is fine, but this is clearly Depp's movie.
Enjoy it, like you would snack food. For me, it's the most watchable film of
the summer. Good cross-over should mash it past the $200,000,000 mark with
ease. It leaves itself open for a sequel, but I don't know how Jerry
Bruckheimer would top it. The summer belongs to Disney. After five losing
years they are back at the top of the ziggurat. Congratulations, Michael,
you teamed up with a winner and a winner is what you got. Can't wait for the
"making of" DVD.

******
3 August 2003
8

Loved it!  Just saw the Stones-stock in Toronto with Keith Richards, then
Boom, there he is speaking thru time and depp space!Keef!How funny!Heard it /saw it / felt it Before reading confirmation here and elsewhere
that he Was being Keith as a pirate, and Yeah, it obviously wasn't just
some
arbitrary hip choice, like playing him as Bob Dylan or even John Lennon.
It's great to know Keith is still living and breathing among us, and great
to see him living and breathing on a pirate adventure in the 1800s through
overlaid masks of Johnny's Hunter Thompson and Ichabod Crane and Don
Juan --
like Ed McMahon becoming an axe-wielding maniac thru Jack Nicholson --
bizarre, but it works.The choreography of all the many swordfighting scenes was great -- comical
at times, theatrical & tense at others -- it was Errol Flynn with a little
Fred Astaire, and maybe Eddie Murphy or Jim Carey.This is Swiss Family Robinson, Kirk Douglas, swashbuckling swordfights,
swinging from ship to ship -- except done in a real 21st century foxy way
--
with explosions that shake your soda, and a surreal Star Wars bar scene in
Pirateland, where Jack 'Han Solo' Sparrow goes back to recruit a crew.The music was just great, swept you along with the swooshes of swords, as
did the choreography.  The sets take you there, the castles make me want
to
be there, and the living skeleton special effects bring out my own worst
nightmares.  The acting is typically melodramatic Disney comedy, but
that's
the genre, and its consistent and funny.  The storyline is kind of
convoluted and ridiculous, but the dialog is righteous (just look at all
the
quotes on this site after about one week in release).  Finding faults in
this is like complaining about Duck Soup;  ignore the flies, and just fly
with the parrots.  This is a silly, wonderful, imaginative, transportive
ride based on the coolest scary ride at Disneyland.  How could it not have
been made before?  And I'd love to have a five bowl serial.

******
3 August 2003
8

You are probably getting sick and tired of ranting reviews on Depp's
performance in pirates of the caribbean...well... here's one
more!
Without Johnny Depp's HILARIOUS Jack Sparrow this movie would be an
average
summer blockbuster for the kiddies.
Depp's tongue in cheek interpretation of the character gives the movie
exactly the sort of light heartedness that it needs.
To be honest any serious pirate movie cannot possible be any good, or in
this day and age won't be found entertaining.
The youth of today, majority who buy movie tickets and download movies,
thinks pirate stories are old fashioned and frankly, boring. Its the
humour
in this film, which Jack Sparrow gives it that makes it worth
seeing.The other actors in the movie are on the whole acceptable. Rush's
over-the-top cursed mutinous first mate fits in well in the overall
feeling
of the movie. Knightley's performance as damsel in distress is just as
good
as any. Its her chemistry with Bloom which is sparkling and in my opinion
justifies the choice of her as the lady of the film.Bloom on the other
hand
seems at times a bit lost in this big budget movie. He certainly looks
dashing enough and there are some genuinely romantic scenes between him
and
Knightley, and he's good at action sequences, however at times his acting
is
pretty awkward.If Depp hadn't been cast beside him: this movie would have
been a stinker. Bloom doesn't have the on screen presence yet. But
hopefully
that will develop.He does have talent.The plot and story of the movie is as expected very thin and there are
problems with pacing. The movie is 20 minutes too long. The middle part
of
the movie being occasionally uninteresting. But the beginning and end
make
up for the mediocre storytelling in between.I'm starting to become a fan of Gore Verbinksi. He has certainly created
a
unique atmosphere in Pirates of the Caribbean.Keep up the good work!!And
know i'm not alone on this: GIVE JACK SPARROW AN OWN MOVIE

******
3 August 2003
9

It amazes me that so many people get on the computer an pan perfectly good
movies.  Pirates kicked arse, in my opinion. (Note the English accent so
prevalent in this movie.)  Johnny Depp made the movie, which, admittedly,
was little more than a special effects tribute to the popular Disney
attraction. His character was not only the basis for the film and a cause
for the best action sequences, but also the comic relief. The plot was
curiously interesting, and made sense if you think about it, adhering in
many ways to the type of pirate legends that made up the Caribbean
history.
If you liked Cutthroat Island, you'll love this movie.  It's fun,
exciting,
and well worth your schillings.Also, as a Florida boy who went to Disney many times in his youth, Pirates
was always one of my favorite attractions.  Not only did it have air
conditioning (which in the summer months was a major draw in the magic
kingdom's choices), but it also featured the animatronics and music that
made the ride famous.  Glimpses of this attraction can be seen throughout
the first sequence with the pirates, including, but not limited to,
pirates
chasing wenches, the pirates locked in the prison trying to tease the dog
into bringing them the key, and the pirate skeletons hanging from the
rock.I loved this movie, and would recommend it heartily...mates.

******
30 July 2003
6

This is one of those movies that you really want to like.  It's unbelievably
well-made and succeeds on many levels:-It looks great.-It sounds great.-It is well acted.-It has great special effects.-It has a great plot.-It has good action scenes.Despite all of these good points, something just didn't work for me.  The
pacing was off and I found it too long.  I think it would be a much better
movie if it were 1/2 an hour shorter.  I found myself checking my watch
several times-not a good thing.The length of the movie offset most of the good points for me and I gave the
movie a 6/10.  It was really hard for me to submit the vote.  I could tell
that someone really labored over this movie and tried to sweat the details. 
At the end of the day, it doesn't really matter how hard film makers work on
their craft if it fails to deliver the goods, right?


******
25 July 2003
9

Where to start.  From Johnny's Depp's opening scene on the sinking dingy
to
well done CGI that didn't overwhelm the movie, Pirates has established
itself as one of the finest pirate movies of all time.  Each character is
well acted, even the minor characters have well established
personalities.
The fight scenes are well choreographed, and the CGI meshes perfectly
from
flesh and blood to bones and tatters.As far as plot goes, it's a pirate movie.  Buried treasure, kidnapped
lady,
plank walking, ancient curse, broadsides and lots of sword play, they hit
all the cliches you would expect.  But they do it well.  Where other
pirate
movies have failed, Pirates manages to mix action and comedy in the right
amount.  I know these kinds of movies don't win Oscars, but it at least
should get a hard look.  Depp and Jeffrey Rush especially for their
brilliant portrayals of rival pirate captains.

******
25 July 2003
9

Warning: don't go to this movie looking for an intellectual view on life
(not that you would, but...).  Yes, with that said, I have to say that I
found this movie to be quite lovely.  The casting is pretty good, though
many of the characters are far too restricting for the actors to go
anywhere
with it.  Johnny Depp is absolutely delightful with his rendition of the
slightly-addled, but all-together wise Captain Jack Sparrow.  There are a
few moments that will make you chuckle and a few moments that will send
your
heart into your stomach.  Also, a couple of nice references back to the
ride
(such as the infamous jail scene with the dog).  All things considered,
this
flick has only half a brain, but continues quite nicely and allows the
viewer to leave the theater with a smile on their face.

******
24 July 2003
9

I found this film to be thoroughly entertaining and enjoyable.  While
some
parts could certainly have hit the cutting room floor, with no loss to
the
film, I still enjoyed it enough to recommend it to everyone.Johnny Depp turns in a hysterically entertaining performance as Jack
Sparrow
- I'd call this one of Depp's greatest performances, and the price of
admission is worth seeing his turn here. Orlando Bloom makes a believable
pirate as well, and gets extra points for having that lovely hair.  Kiera
Knightley's talent as an actress is apparently debatable; but then again,
the part wasn't much, so I can't judge her based on this film alone.
Geoffery Rush makes a great bad guy, but I expected nothing less than a
stellar performance from Rush anyhow (that is what he does, after all).The sets and costumes are gorgeous and lush, and the ships are beautiful
to
look upon.  I do wish there had been more swordfighting, though!
Overall, I
think this film will sit well on the shelf along with the other Disney
live-action films that have done so well over the years, and is
entertaining
enough to watch more than once.  More than twice, in fact.


******
24 July 2003
9

All i have to say is that if Johnny depp wasnt in this movie it would be
the
biggest waste of money, but he saved and stole the movie from Orlando
Bloom.
Johnny Depps character ( jack Sparrow) made the movie work, the battle
scenes were great, the acting  was good, but Orlando Bloom looked like
he'd
rather be acting in LOTR return of the king right now. The pirates
reminded
me
of the mummy in the mummy series, but they even looked better, but Johnny
Depps comic relief was just enough, they didnt over due it but still kept
him as a
comedic character......8 out of 10, would have been a 9 or 10 if it was
20
minutes
to 30 minutes shorter.a

******
24 July 2003
9

This was a very fun movie.  Johnny Depp played his character so well I was
hoping for a sequel even before I left the theater!  Geoffrey Rush was
quite
menacing.
The pacing slowed a bit toward the end, but it didn't really
matter.
Great fun all around.

******
19 July 2003
8

Disney got one right finally.  A great pirate film with interesting
characters all around that seem to have real depth.  Plot twist, good action
and interesting characters.  We need more pirate films for sure. A must see
on the big screen.  The effects of the cursed pirates was very well done -
kudos to the CGI folks.  The mix of a small bit of scary (enough for the
adults and good for the older children) and sufficient humor to go with the
beautiful scenery and smashing action made for a superb viewing
experience.

******
19 July 2003
8

This movie was fun from the beginning through the end.  It was a real
pleasure to see an all-around good movie, with plenty of action, more comedy
than I expected, and some drama and romance, all while telling a pretty good
story.There were several scenes in the movie which were taken directly from the
Disneyland ride, and they were done very well.  They fit right in to the
movie, and would not even be noticed by someone who hasn't been on the ride.
 However, those of us who have, the scenes were very entertaining.Overall, this was just a lot of fun.

******
18 July 2003
8

Greetings again from the darkness.  Director Gore Verbinski ("The Mexican"
"The Ring") finally delivers with this instant Disney classic.  Wonderful
casting, crackling humor and terrific special effects make this one a gem. 
Johnny Depp is perfect as the strange, funny, smart, slightly off center
pirate, Captain Jack Sparrow.  Geoffrey Rush is his equal as Sparrow's enemy
Barbossa.  Brilliant casting with the up and coming stars Orlando Bloom and
Keira Knightly ("Bend it like Beckham") give this film very wide appeal to
the mass audience - not an easy task for a swashbuckling pirate movie - ask
Geena Davis and Renny Harlin.  Although some of the dialog is bit over the
top, the basic story line is pretty interesting and actually works on a
couple of levels.  This is fine movie making and a joy to watch and
recommend.  Doubt the sequel will be as well done, but enjoy this
one.

******
18 July 2003
9

PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN: THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL
(2003)
Rating out of four: ****
Starring: Johnny Depp, Geoffery Rush, Orlando Bloom, Keira
Knightly
Directed by Gore VerbinskiWhere to start?This movie is exactly what people need this summer.  It has it all,
comedy,
adventure, action, and a slight bit of horror.The acting is absolutely amazing!  Everyone played their part spot-on.
This
is definately Johnny Depp's finest performance.  The way he slurs his
lines
when he talks, his face and hand gestures, and the way he walks around
like
he's drunk all the time hit a good spot with the audience.  Depp stole the
show.  Geoffery Rush was fantastic as Captain Barbossa, him and his
crewmates adding creepyness to the movie.  Keira Knightly anf Orlando
Bloom
did a fine performance.  I was especially pleased with Knightly's.  As an
18-year-old actress, she acts like she's been doing it for years and
years,
worthy of a best supporting actress award.As for the rest of the movie.  CGI wasn't absolutely stunning but it did
it's part.  Showing us what the curse of the aztec gold had on the
pirates.
I enjoyed the scenes of the beautiful landscape and waters of the
Caribbean,
especially that one little island that Jac..(sorry) Captain Jack Sparrow
and
Elizabeth Swann were marooned on.Drink up me 'arties yo ho!

******
18 July 2003
9

Pirates of the Carribean was surprisingly good! I was expecting it to be
awful, but it was very funny and the acting was amazingly good, and oh my
god Orlando Bloom is hot! Johnny Depp isn't too bad either. I was really
surprised - I thought it would either be way too fake and just plain gross
(especially after the trailers), but it turned out not to take itself too
seriously, and to actually have a much higher caliber of acting than I was
expecting. Plus, there was a monkey. And a parrot. And a pirate song. Ooo
and cannons. How much better could it get? :-)

******
18 July 2003
8

I went to go see this movie the third day after it was released. I went in
thinking I'd enjoy myself and I sure did. I was in awe of how Johnny Depp
became the pale man he was in Sleepy Hollow, to the rough and dazed pirate
he was in this movie. I was not overall impressed with Orlando Bloom's
role
in this movie, but when his character was needed for certain scenes, he
was
there. I liked the 'heroine' of the movie, though, in some scenes, I found
her a little too, bland.
The storyline was pretty good, though, not the kind of thing you would see
in a disney ride, more like for "Jason and the Arganauts". I really hoped
that it wouldn't be all scifi, and stick more to the lines of an pirate
movie where they smuggle and steal, and rape and kindle. The swordfight
was
rather good, though I had to tell myself 'Your not watching Errol Flynn'.But all in all, I enjoyed myself when seeing this, and I will be buying
the
movie when it's released.

******
17 July 2003
8

My ever-sexy, scrumptious dreamboat Johnny Depp as a pirate. A match made in
heaven; a perfect movie experience for moi...  I could bask in Johnny's
sumptuous performance while the hubby and kids enjoyed all the fighting and
explosions! Just can't take the smile off my face and I'm gonna see it again
next chance I get.

******
16 July 2003
8

I was a little wary going in, because all the reviews I'd read seemed to
agree that the movie started out great but was about 45 minutes too long. I
*thoroughly* disagree!I can't think of one scene that didn't make me laugh at least once, I never
got bored, and I never found myself wondering "What were they thinking?".
I'm already looking forward to a sequel.

******
15 July 2003
8

If you have ever been to Disney World, undoubtedly you have ridden one of
their oldest and most famous rides, Pirates of the Caribbean.' The ride
first premiered at Disneyland in California in 1956. Since then, it has
astounded riders with its stunning animatronics that make riders feel as if
they are actually viewing real pirates. Now, in 2003, we are blessed with a
film version, equally as remarkable as the ride, but far more frightening.
Unlike the usual simple live-action films based on Disney creations, hence
`The Lizzy McGuire Movie,' the new `Pirates of the Caribbean,' is a fine
blend of swashbuckling action, stunning visual effects, elaborate sets and
fairly good performances. Starring Johnny Depp (`From Hell'), Orlando Bloom
(`Black Hawk Down'), Geoffrey Rush (`Frida'), Keira Knightley (`Bend It Like
Beckham'), Jack Davenport (The Talented Mr. Ripley) and Johnathan Pryce
(`What A Girl Wants'), `Pirates of the Caribbean' is quite possibly one of
this summer's most exciting motion pictures. 
	The story follows that of Captain Jack Sparrow (Depp), who after being
imprisoned is freed by a blacksmith named Will Turner (Bloom). Turner needs
the help of Sparrow to hunt down a band of pirates who have kidnapped the
radiant Elizabeth Swann (Knightley), who is the governor's daughter.
Incidentally, Swann holds a medallion that has a secret power to transform
her kidnappers back into real men, as a curse has left them as ghosts. It's
now a race for Sparrow and Turner to find and kill the pirates before they
sacrifice Swann in an ancient ritual to free themselves from the curse. 	Depp steals the show with his constant swaggering and drunken behavior-he
fits the character of Sparrow like a glove. Beyond Depp, Rush is equally
engaging as the nefarious pirate Barbossa. Bloom also pulls off a realistic
performance, as he does in every film in which he appears. Mostly known for
his role as Legolas in `The Lord of the Rings,' films, he brings class and
wit to `Pirates of the Caribbean.' All three actors share something in
common-they can do no wrong. They all grace every project that they work on
and add a sense of intrigue to the plot through their characterization.	The general feel of `Pirates of the Caribbean' is serious, yet campy enough
to have fun along the way. The audience will certainly enjoy how Sparrow
tricks British soldiers as he tries to steal a ship. But there is also a
sense that the film is trying to be truthful in it's realistic portrayal, at
least physically and set-wise, of what the battles would be like between
naval ships. 
	The set design is astonishing. A great deal of craft and creativity went
into the building of ships and buildings that the pirates pillage and
plunder. One feels as if they are looking at real ships from the era.
Usually there are little flaws that seem to stick out on a movie screen, but
with this film, they just don't seem to show up. 
	The film may be a bit longer than necessary, but its thrilling from start
to finish. Directed by Gore Verbinski (`The Ring'), `Pirates of the
Caribbean' will long be remembered and loved for its action sequences and
pure fun. However, parents should heed the PG-13 rating, as the film can be
quite scary for the little ones at times. ***


******
13 July 2003
8

Though a bit violent for small children and a bit long in some places,
Pirates has tidbits for all movie goers, old and young, male and female. 
There is the romance, there are the fight scenes, there are the ghost/horror
elements, there are the cute comedy bits that all make up for a rather fun,
entertaining film for everyone.  Johnny Depp almost steals the show with his
anti-hero antics.  The movie ultimately stands up to honest scrutiny for all
characters for the most part by the end, though perhaps Barbossa could have
been even a more complex character making the movie even more dramatic and
riveting.  The climax avoids the usual melt-down to action and blustery
fury, using instead a more moderate and superior ending device.  Overall,
Pirates rates eight stars out of ten.

******
2 July 2003
10

Probably the best movie under the name Disney.  Based on the infamous ride
at Disneyland, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, is a
movie that gives pirates a whole new meaning.  This swashbuckling film has a
great action and performed brilliantly by a amazing cast.  I must say
Geoffrey Rush stands out as the cursed pirate.  He gives an outstanding
performance as he always seems to do when playing a villain. You will get blasted out of the water!

******
2 July 2003
10
I was lucky enough to see this in Westwood at a preview screening and I
will pay to see this movie again!!! Grab a bag of popcorn, your
favorite soda and get ready for a great ride - pun intended! Funny,
witty, and a bit of drama as well. I'm so happy Walt Disney Pictures
and Jerry Bruckheimer have come up a winner on this, based on a beloved
Disneyland park ride. Johnny Depp, wow, what a performance; when Depp
is on screen you can't take your eyes off of him, so into his character
of the Pirate with a heart, and teeth, of gold. Splendid cast, story
and action, and the heroine gets to do more than swoon in this
adventure. Orlando Bloom is a hottie and a terrific hero. Pay attention
to the fun references to the ride which enhance the experience! Go see
this movie! It's a date movie, an action adventure movie and a family
movie all rolled into one.

******
29 June 2003
10

And how lucky of me to see it at the premiere!  A really brilliant film.
Honestly, it had just the right measurements of fun, Disney-ism, and
action,
without appearing shallow or fluffy.  I'm really looking forward to seeing
this again when it hits theaters.

******
24 June 2003
10

I just saw this film at a test screening tonight near 20th Century Fox
Studios and it is fantastic!  I am telling everyone it's a must-see,
because
not since "Raiders of the Lost Ark" has there been such an exciting
swashbuckler hit the big screen.  "Pirates" is a current-day "Captain
Blood"
(Errol Flynn) that pulls out all the stops.  And who better to play an
Errol
Flynn-type character than Johnny Depp.  Keira Knightly, Orlando Bloom and
Geoffrey Rush are sure not to disappoint, either.  Never a dull moment.  A
must-see, indeed!

******
16 February 2010
4
The Curse of the Black Pearl was almost loved by many critics and
according to some of them, it was a masterpiece. Then, why? You know,
critics don't like such kind of movies, the movies which they call
blockbusters, they underestimate such kind of movies and don't give
high ratings. Even the sequel can be an example. As I see, they did not
like the second movie as many people did not. Firstly, I want to say
that I don't categorize movies as blockbuster and non blockbuster. What
I am trying to say is that Curse of the Black Pearl has nothing
different or unusual that would make even critics appreciated, instead,
it was engrossing, entertaining, but a so so movie. Just another
adventure movie. I slightly enjoyed it, it was entertaining, but mildly
entertaining, so I cannot say a lot of fun here. I had expected much
more by trailer. I think that I can tell my thoughts more clear above
The King Arthur. Curse of the Black Pearl is such a movie. I was
entertained by The King Arthur, but just by some scenes, it was not
uninteresting, it was engrossing, but no more than that. I had rented
it, watched, was entertained, then gave it back. It was a so so movie,
it was not a new Gladiator, it was not a new Excalibur. This first
movie, Curse of the Black Pearl is such a movie, if you ask me. It is
an engrossing pirate movie with ghosts who look like flesh and blood,
but turn into ghost by moonlight. Cool! As for Johnny Depp, one of my
all time favorite actors, Jack Sparrow is remarkable, interesting, but
he cannot even touch Jack Sparrow in Dead Man's Chest. In the sequel,
this character is much more interesting, eccentric, colorful and funny.
However, his performance in all The Pirates of the Caribbean movies is
outstanding, especially in the second movie! Jack Sparrow hides a
secret, it is unfolded at the last part, but it ruins the character, it
kills the humor of the character. I was just disappointed, but not so
important. Before the sequel was released, I had been sure that the
second movie would surpass the first movie by far on all counts and I
was not mistaken about it.

******
13 April 2009
7
Unlike a lot of people, I thought the Pirates of the Caribbean series
was okay, entertaining in place, but not great. Pirate films have a
history of being flops, from Roman Polanski's Pirates to the biggest
Blockbuster failure Cutthroat Island. Pirates of the Caribbean also has
a filmy source material, a ride at Disneyworld (and the Florida version
isn't that good). So the signs weren't good. However, the film is
produced by Jerry Bruckheimer who has made a large number of
blockbusters, had writers who were involved in successful films like
Aladdin, the Mask of Zorro, Antz, Shrek and Colleratal, and staring
Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush.POTC is set in the 17th Century, set in the Caribbean (surprise
surprise). Sailing from England to Port Royal, Jamaica, the young
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) and her father, the Governor of the
island (Jonathan Pryce) find a young boy, Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)
floating in the ocean. The film fast-forwards to when Elizabeth and
Will are young adults, Elizabeth still the daughter of the governor and
Will is a blacksmith. Will is in love with Elizabeth but doesn't do
anything about it. However their world is rocked when Jack Sparrow
(Johnny Depp) shows up. He saves Elizabeth from drowning before getting
arrested by the British authorities. That night Port Royal is attacked
by pirates from the Black Pearl, with Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush)
leading them. Elizabeth is kidnapped and Jack and Will have to chase to
save her.Now the film is hokum, but that's acceptable. It is meant for a family
entertainment. It also adds supernatural elements and it felt similar
to the Mummy, even have similar action scenes. This film in the series
has the simplest plot and has many humorous elements. The action is
top-draw, mixing live-action and CGI, the whole series is known for it
special effects and had an excellent score. The acting is hit and miss.
Johnny Depp is entertaining as the drunken, distruthful Jack Sparrow.
This is Johnny Depp's first blockbuster, in the past often rejecting
big budget movies to work on smaller projects. Depp is a brilliant
actor. Geoffrey Rush is an actor who added gravitas to project and
makes an excellent villain; the films allows him to have some fun.
Johnathan Pryce was underused in the film, but still made his character
a good but indifferent being. Keira Knightley was okay, I don't mind
her, she is very easy on the eye. Orlando Bloom is a bit wet and he has
been type-casted since Lord of the Rings (he has been in Troy and
Kingdom of Heaven). The film is too long and the story is not the best.
It is filled with pirate clichés. Gore Verbinski is more comfortable
with the action scenes then character development. Most of the humours
comes from Jack Sparrow and often slapstick.Basically the film is entertaining enough, 3 out of 5.

******
12 March 2009
9
This is a great film, full of action, romance and humour. I loved it
and couldn't wait for the sequels ( I lived to wish I had missed them )
Johnny Depp creates one of movies great characters in jack Sparrow who
really steals this film. All the supporting actors are good, even the
smaller parts and the film seems much shorter than its 2 and a half
hours. This film was so good that the awful, over special effected
sequels have ruined what could have been a great series of films. The
sequels should have concentrated more on Jack Sparrow and his humour
instead of ridiculous and unbelievable characters that appeared in
them. ( Davey Jones to name just one stupid invention )

******
16 July 2008
10
I've seen this movie three or four times by now. I have enjoyed it
every single time like it was the first. I watched it again today and
it still amazes me.The cast is incredible, Depp, Bloom and Knightley make a really
entertaining team. Watching this film again, it made me realize that
Orlando Bloom does have acting skills and he probably has a great
career ahead of him. Keira Knightley was beautiful and delivers a good
performance in The Curse of the Black Pearl. She was made to act and to
shine, I cannot believe she was only seventeen in this movie, the age I
am now. I believe she is a really good role model as well.Johnny Depp... His name says everything. He's an amazing actor, always
part of the best movies of the genre and one of the best entertainers
of this millennium, probably. It's not his looks or his muscular body,
or his youth (I was making a joke) that impresses us - it's the facial
expressions and the body language. Jack Sparrow is a really good
character and young kids, specially boys, everywhere will want Jack
Sparrow backpacks and Jack Sparrow lunch boxes. But not only kids enjoy
this movie, adults do too, Sparrow is also a complex character.But those tree are not the only ones that impress, the rest of them are
good also. Jack Davenport's Norrington and Jonathan Pryce's Governor
Weatherby Swann are a good contrast to Will and Jack. Both amusing and
amazing. Barbossa makes a nice villain in this film and Geoffrey Rush
acted pretty good alongside Depp and the main cast.The special effects are good, modern, it almost makes you forget you're
just watching a movie. The story is relatively simple, the humor is
really good, sometimes I wonder if this is a pirates parody movie, but
then I realize that they're trying to create that perfect feeling that
comes into your mind when you are thinking about pirates and adventure.I don't know what more I can say since I'm not an expert. If you
haven't seen this movie then what are you waiting for? Everybody has
seen it!

******
13 June 2008
9
One of the best live action Disney films of all time. Pirates of the
Caribbean revived a dead movie genre with spectacular glory. Full of
comedy, action, great story and character development and amazing CGI,
it deserves to be in the film hall of fame, if there is one. The story
revolves around the cursed treasure of Cortez, placed in a large chest
on Isla De Muetre, an island that can only be found by those who know
where it is. Anyway, a crew of pirates take the coins and become cursed
skeletons. They need all the coins to free themselves of the curse, so
they kidnap Keira Knightley from Port Royal to complete their goal.
Will Turner, played by Orlando Bloom, teams up with swank pirate
Captain Jack Sparrow to save her from Captain Barbossa and the crew of
the Black Pearl. Hilarity, action and old-fashioned pirating follows
with an amazing final battle. I give the film 9/10.

******
21 May 2008
10
The below or above writer made a valiant point in saying Disney hasn't
come out with decent movies for quite a while now (at that point in
time), however you cannot say Johnny Depp would be as famous as he is
because of this movie? He has always been great in his own right even
though he wasn't the mainstream actor of that time...he had a cult
following and his movies and characters are quite memorable. Movies
made from Disney haven't always been the best as i can agree with this
previous writer, however, of all Disney movies...NOT ANIMATED...this
movie will always be a top the list!! Depp sold this movie!! Hands
Down! The rest of the cast added to the beauty, laughter, and
amazingness(my word) of this film!! One of my favorite rides of Disney
actually made an Amazing Film!! Can't say that with a lot of Disney
Films now a days.....

******
26 March 2008
10
I love this movie. First of all, I love pirates, which means anything
that has to do with pirates, I love. So, obviously I would like this,
but, besides that, this movie has romance, action, adventure, a witty
rum-obsessed captain (Jack), a brave hero (Will), and a not so
distressed damsel (Elizabeth). There are also bad guys of course
(Captain Barbosa), the undead skeleton pirates that Jack, Will, and
Elizabeth have to defeat.Overall this film is a wonderful pirate movie
that I love, but I wouldn't recommend watching the other two, although
they somewhat summed up the story, they were not as good as the first
one, which above all, has to be the best out of the three. So, as I said, it is a great movie that I give 10 out of 10.

******
15 October 2007
9
This movie is by far my absolute favorite. The drama, fights, romance,
humor... EVERYTHING fits perfectly within each other like a puzzle.This whole story starts out with action right away. THe Governers
daughter, Elizabeth, played by the gorgeous Keira Knightley, is
kidnapped by pirates. Not just any pirates. Cursed pirates. And
supposedly, Elizabeth's blood can lift the curse as she beholds a
medallion, one of 882. However, her blood is not who they need, Will
Turner, a blacksmith, is truly the one who can lift the curse. And of
course, what's a movie without romance? Will and Elizabeth are in love.Captain Jack Sparrow, played by the wonderful Johnny Depp, is along for
the ride, in hopes for fetching back his beloved Black Pearl, who was
stolen from him by Captain Barbossa. Leader of the cursed pirates.All in all, this movie is amazing. Everything is played out perfectly.
The plot is great, the acting is fantastic, the special effects are
superb.Well done.

******
6 October 2007
10
What a wonderful pirate movie! I loved every bit of it. This is a real
treat for Disney fans. The performances was incredible and realistic,
there are some superb actors and actresses in this movie, such as
Johnny Depp, who plays the mighty yet charming Captain Jack Sparrow he
will certainly blow the audience away with his action, humour and
look!! Also the heroic and handsome Orlando Bloom, who plays Will
Turner, he proves that he can shine no matter what with his personality
and talents. As for Keira Knightley (who plays the beautiful governor's
daughter in this movie)proved that she can play a grown up girl who is
stuck in the 18th Century very well and probably her fans think so too.
And Geoffrey Rush, who plays the evil and cunning Captain Barbossa, did
very well and you can feel his emotions inside you and he can have you
right at the edge of your seat. I think all of the actors and actresses
did brilliantly in this movie and not to mention the makers of this
movie, they have done an absolutely amazing job to produce such a
enjoyable gripping pirate movie.I loved the special effects in this movie - it made the movie more
realistic than ever. Also I loved the idea of the plot, the mighty and
charming Captain Jack Sparrow is back, this time the evil Captain
Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) stole Jack's ship, The Black Pearl. And later
it attacks Port Royal and two pirates kidnapped the beautiful
governor's daughter, Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley). Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) saw Elizabeth get kidnapped and in an attempt to rescue
her he joined forces with Jack. But a cursed treasure doomed Barbossa
and his band of cursed men to live as undead forever and Will dosen't
know that...This is a perfect pirate movie mixed with humour, horror, mystery,
adventure, love and sword fighting action.

******
21 June 2007
10
I am eleven years old. And be that as it may, I am a girl, a girlie
girl in fact. So you must be wondering, what business does a girlie
eleven year old girl have watching Pirates of the Caribbean? Well, I'm
bursting to tell you why.When I first heard of Pirates of the Caribbean I thought 'Oh! Not
another Pirate movie!' But when the second movie came out, my father
insisted that I had to watch it. At first I tried to get out of it, but
then when I finally sat down to watch it, I fell in love. Jack's
tricks, Elizabeth's sense and Will's courage are what kept me going.After I had watched it, I wanted to watch it again and again. Now I
seriously think that my parents are sick of it. One thing's for sure,
I'll never be sick of it.Pirates will never get old and this movie will be a legend forever!

******
4 June 2007
8
Jhonny Depp adds to his list of already enigmatic characters played
probably the one he is most famous for playing - Captin Jack Sparrow ,
during the 2 hours of curse of the Black Pearl it was hard to think of
anybody else who could pull it off as well as he did. The Curse of the
Black Pearl is one of those summer time movies which you have to be in
the mood to view and many years later finally... that mood had arrived
for me. On the whole I was not left disappointed as it kept me hooked
through its swash- buckling antics and I can see how the angles were
curbed to keep this a good family film. The plot was fairly straight
forward with our anti-hero pirate trying to recover his ship back
whilst taking revenge on a group of super natural foes along with the
entire naval fleet and the meeting a few characters along the way . The
special affects were very good , not to mention the stunts and the
sword play all brilliant although its never really taken to the level I
had hoped for but hey again this is a family film!!! Jhonny Depp was
the man who kept me in my seat , whether it be the action or the catchy
one liners he makes it very apparent why he is one of the most
versatile actors to have emerged onto the big screen. Orlando Bloom
although I am not a fan of his he pulled his weight through out the
film very well indeed UNLIKE in Troy where he was nothing short of an
annoying pep-squeak and I really enjoyed Keira Knightley's performance
through out the film (not just eye candy)and every body made full use
of the scenery to the brilliant make-up and costumes really made it
worth while. Too conclude The Curse of The Black Pearl is one of those
films which are worth a check at on summer's day with your family or
worth a rental if your looking for a bit of light action/fantasy I mean
I may just be a little too old for Pirates now days and the action was
not taken to the level I had hoped for but instead it was saved by
brilliant performances all round. THE CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL: 8.1 OUT OF 10'You best start believing in ghost stories Miss Turner, after all your
in one!' - Captin Barbossa (played by Geoffery Rush.)

******
1 June 2007
9
..and uplifting. There was a time when this is why people went to the
movies. No pretentious advocacy. Just high caliber entertainment. (Good
music too) What? Johnny Depp can even take his young kids to see it.
Pirate Jack Sparrow is an all-time characterization. Geoffrey Rush
boosts the wonder of storybook pirates to a level not seen since the
original "Treasure Island". The Brit officers are great foils for Depp
and the pirate crew is all that one could hope for. Great lines
sprinkled throughout. Rush's response to the Lady's demand on pirate
ethics is classic. "..it was more of a guideline than a rule". The old
adage -always leave them laughing- was transgressed for me as the film
went a tad long. This movie will be watched 20 years from now...long
after "American Beauty" or "Syriana" are utterly forgotten.

******
7 May 2007
8
This swash-buckling tale follows the quest of Captain Jack Sparrow, a
savvy pirate, and Will Turner, a resourceful blacksmith, as they search
for Elizabeth Swann. Elizabeth, the daughter of the governor and the
love of Will's life, has been kidnapped by the feared Captain Barbossa.
Little do they know, Barbossa along with his large crew, are under an
ancient curse, doomed for eternity to neither live, nor die. That is,
unless a blood sacrifice is made.This is a very entertaining action adventure and probably is one of the
best films ever made! I'm not exaggerating. It has an interesting
storyline for people to watch, great characters for people to love,
great action scenes for people to get them to the edge-of-their-seats,
and some clever dialog for people to laugh at!I even have to disagree that the film is too long. Well, I didn't mind
it at all because I didn't find a single moment in the movie ever being
boring. The special effects of the film was good, as well as its
costume design, and production design.As you can tell, Johnny Depp plays another, but this time, a really
weird character. His acting is funny and the other two roles by Orlando
Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, and Keira Knightley were all good. The score is
also memorable, still being played today.If you want a great, big summer movie (well, that was 4 years ago) then
go on and watch the film for you folks who still have yet to watch it!
It's funny, thrilling, romantic, and so on!

******
31 August 2006
9
A movie based on a Disney ride. A movie based on a Disney ride. Hmm.
Does it sound appealing?? No. But did I finally watch it?? OH, yeah!
Loved the casting. Can we do something with what's-her-name's teeth,
though? At parts, looks like she's trying to pout over the overbite.
Not attractive. But Johhny Depp??? Incredible job as the Pirate who
helps others only to help himself. ("Don't do anything stupid"..."like
that..." *sigh*) I am looking forward to the sequel, but not seeing it
in theaters... Cause I'm going to buy it straight-out. I know it will
be worth it as long as Disney didn't drop the ball. I can't imagine
Depp signing back on if they had. So, looking forward to it. This movie
is a must-buy. The casting, acting, direction and
cinematography/choreography were all almost flawless. The special
effects were well-done. Disney's getting better at the CGIs. (Hooray.)
You'll love it for the plot. It's safe to root for the underdog again.
You'll love it for the characters. How sweet the attraction between the
main characters. Great family movie. Pop a large bowl of popcorn, grab
your drinks, and have fun. Much better than the ride at Disney. (I
don't want to see the Hall of Presidents on screen, so please, Disney,
draw the line before you go too far, but good job on this one.)

******
7 August 2006
10
It'a almost 3 years since I saw this for the first time. And who didn't
think: "This It's going to suck big time"? I did, but somehow I still
ended up in the cinema, and saw the movie. I was VARY surprised when I
walked out, and remember saying to my self: "This is actually good!"
The movie has it all.. Good vs. bad, love and the funniest pirate you
probably ever is going to see.Johnny Depp as (Captain) Jack Sparrow is not your everyday pirate, and
some will probably still wonder what is he doing? Johnny does a great
job and get every part of Jack to work so well. It makes me want more
of that character. Orlando Bloom as Will is I my opinion good as well.
Who else could be a little bad boy and still have some nerd-style over
him? Keira Knighty as Elizabeth challenges the god girl question. Can
you really be a god girl, like you have been your whole life in a
pirate-world? Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa is more dominated than the
others characters, without make the other characters look small. That's
a god balance between them all. And lets not forget even the smaller
parts, but I think you need to see the movie to get to know them. You mat think: Is it still worth it? AYE! Specially if you are going to
the the next 2 movies.. Look at me. It's now 3 years later I still
can't get enough of this movie.

******
11 July 2006
10
What can i say this film came from no where and impressed. I have been
to Florida quite a few times so was familiar with Pirates of the
Caribbean the ride. When i saw this film was coming out, i thought oh
dear!! but went along anyway. I had ZERO expectations.THIS FILM IS BRILLIANT..... It has action, adventure, Humour, Romance
and even a touch of horror. The characters are all great and you can
empathise with all of them. The action sequences were all great, with
good sword fights, Daring escapes and even ship to ship battles. The
Humour is probably the best thing about this film, its just fun and
light hearted you can't help but like it. This film also has some great
one liners.The acting in the film is also very good, Depp being the best. He has
created a great classic, anti-hero lovable rouge who is up there with
the likes of Indiana Jones and Han solo, he's just campy(but trust me
that works). The rest of the cast is also good.The set pieces and special effects are also great. a good mix of real
effects combined with CGI have combined to make a great looking
picture.If you want a good swash buckling adventure action flick with a big
dash of Humour and a pinch of romance mixed in for good measure. Then
this film is for you.

******
10 July 2006
9
Don't forget to watch the final scene. If you are patient enough, wait
until the credits are over and you will be rewarded with one final
scene. I won't tell you anything about it, you have to see it for
yourself. Like this one, there are many films that have inserted one
extra piece of the story. Some times you have to expect the unexpected,
a twist in the plot right in the final scene. Why directors include
such easter eggs? Maybe they expect that a film-goer like you should
see the entire movie, his whole piece of art. So, run to your video
store o videoteque and place the VHS or DVD in your player and enjoy.Remember: the story is not over till it's over.

******
8 July 2006
10
I love it and i own it! i watched it a thousand times all ready! Johnny
Depp is a great actor. Kiera Knightly does a great job with this. I
think its her best yet. If you like action movies this one is for you.
I Can't to see the second and third one! Orlando Bloom also does a
great job. By far the best Pirate movie i ever saw! In the movie Jack
Sparrow loses his ship to Barbosa and wants to get it back. Elizabeth
Swan is taken by Barbosa. Will Turner loves her and wants to saw her so
he teams up with Captian Jack. Will finds out that his father was a
pirate. Will's blood is needed to stop the curse that is own Barbosa
and his men. I don't want to spoil it to much so you should go and
watch it!!!!

******
6 July 2006
8
At first, I wasn't at all interested in seeing Pirates of the
Caribbean, but, after I rented it and watched it, I realized what a
cool movie it is. Its really clever.I likes most of the actors. Johnny Depp never really caught my
attention before this, but, since now, I have been waiting anxiously to
see him reprise his role as captain Jack Sparrow. Kiera Knightley and
Geoffrey Rush are excellent as well. Now, on the other hand, Orlando
Bloom sort of bugged me. He didn't seem to fulfill his character as
well as he could have. But, luckily, this didn't detract from the movie
too much.Pirates of the Caribbean had a very original story line. Packed with
witty, funny lines and very clever dialog, it never ceases to
entertain. While I found some lines a little bit hard to understand, I
thought it was very well done.Last, the special effects were really amazing. When the pirates turned
into their ghostly form, I found the skeleton effects incredibly real
looking. Never inconsistent or weak, the effects were done to best
possible degree.So, having said all that, the bottom line is this: I would recommend
Pirates of the Caribbean to anyone who enjoys an action/comedy about
some pirates of the high seas.

******
2 June 2006
9
In the fog at sea, a small boy, Will floats on a scrap plank. Picked up
by the British Navy commanded by Governor Swann and Norrington, Will is
taken into care by Elizabeth, Governor Swan's daughter. Elizabeth
discovers that Will is a pirate carrying a gold trinket, yet keeps this
secret. Eight years later, Norrinton is soon to be announced as
Commodore Norrinton and reveal his love for Elizabeth. Will is a black
smiths apprentice, with a hidden love for Elizabeth. Arriving at Port
Royal on a sinking ship, pirate Captain Jack Sparrow is looking to
commandeer a ship to continue his travels. When a phantom ship, the
Black Pearl comes into port, commanded by Captain Barbossa, Jack, Will
and Elizabeth become entangled in the Black Pearls cursed crew and
their goal to lift the curse.Strangely based upon a theme park ride at the Disney theme park,
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is an exciting
adventure. For a long time, pirate movies have been a disappointing
venture; its hard to say when a good pirate movie was. The genre was
close to be non-existent. Director Gore Verbinski and screen writers
Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio have brought to pirate film into a new age
and revitalised a very dwindling genre.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl has all the
standard elements of a pirate film; savvy characters, treasure, boat
caught in thunderous storm, people walking the plank, but its the
induction of the supernatural element that elevates Pirates of the
Caribbean from just a standard pirate film. The cursed pirates turning
into skeletons in the moonlight spins the whole notion of the genre.
Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio have brought a real authentic element; the
lingo and dialog, the pirate code, adds more realism and authenticity.Really making Pirates of the Caribbean all the better is the character
driving force it holds. The character are detailed and fleshed out;
they are all so unique. The life of the film rests upon Johnny Depp,
bringing his most memorable and best performance of his career; he is
the most versatile actor of this age in cinema. Johnny as the miscreant
Jack Sparrow, with all his blasé idiosyncrasies, are impossible to turn
away. Orlando Bloom at time over plays, with his love lorn looks, yet
does a great act. As the beautiful damsel Elizabeth, Keira Knightley is
wonderful. Making for an ultimate pirate, Geoffrey Rush is just
flawless. He makes Barbossa so charismatic, with some tongue in cheek
wit.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is one swash
buckling adventure and one of the best pirate films in such a very long
time.

******
28 May 2006
10
I did not want to start this comment off by saying that this is my
favorite film. But it is. Yes, I know that period films may not be
everyone's cup of tea, and Disney films aren't for everybody. But
Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl offers so many
unique things to such a wide array of viewers, that it makes it darn
near impossible to see it as a typical "Disney ride" film. For one
thing, you've got Johnny Depp. Oh, the many faces of Mr. Depp. To me,
Johnny Depp can do no wrong. That's because there is NO wrong for him.
He puts himself everywhere, in every part possible, every complex
acting gig he can squeeze himself into. He's not afraid to be out there
or wacky and crazy...Which is EXACTLY what the character of Jack
Sparrow is. Yes, he presents most of the comedy and witty one-liners.
But he's more than just the comic relief. He adds an unexpected depth
to the story, and beckons viewers to take a closer look at him. As do
all of the characters. Keira Knightley presents a tame young lady on the verge of adulthood,
who, when captured by the cursed pirates, unleashes a fierce fighter
from deep within, very unlike any young women of her time. She grew up
wanting to meet a pirate, and once she did, her life was thrown in a
completely different direction. As an audience, we are expected to
follow her journey, and we are also presented with an underlying theme
of "there's more to this than there seems", and even characters like
Knightley's Elizabeth Swann and Bloom's Will Turner offer prime
examples of this theme. Orlando Bloom's acting is often described on the POTC boards as
"wooden" and "lacking", but I say no to all of it. His acting is
exactly what the character calls for. Will Turner is supposed to be
sure of himself and over-confident in the beginning, and throughout the
movie he grows mentally and physically to be able to support and back
up his confidence. As Orlando Bloom once described, it's like Will is
wearing a corset in the beginning (mentally, of course), tight and
restraining. But through the period of the film, it slowly unlaces and
he can be himself more. Geoffrey Rush's Barbossa is evil enough, and even to his character
there are layers. There is method to his madness. He is angry because
he is living in misery and the same discontented state he has been in
because of the curse. He harbors a lust for what he cannot have and a
desire towards how he wishes he could live. There is depth behind the
harsh, seemingly-cruel exterior.I think, in this sense, the plot and characters are held in a corset at
the beginning, each piece held in firmly in it's place. But as the
"corset" loosens, the pieces fall away, and come together how they want
to be. Maybe not how they're meant to be, but how or where they have
longed to be.This movie has more than comedy and a bunch of swashbuckling pirates
and action. Yes, it was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, so you can
expect some definite action on a grand scale, but the movie isn't just
action. It's romance (between Will and Elizabeth), longing (from
Barbossa and the crew), freedom (Jack's knowledge of it because of his
ship), fighting (for what you truly believe in and where you are meant
to be), and so much more. This is a film I believe everyone could
enjoy. I mean, yeah, even if you hate it...You could always sit and
make fun of it for the full 143 minutes. If you don't find yourself
actually intrigued at some point, that is.

******
26 May 2006
10
Did someone actually get something right out there? Swashbuckling at
its best. Excellent cast. Depp was as usual extraordinary in the role
and it as a whole hit everything the current movie genres are missing.
Good Story, good costumes, Great fun, even Keira Knightly couldn't
spoil it if you ignored her acting and let her just look pretty. Please lets not ruin this great story with a sequel of epic nastiness
that taints the good name. (you know what I'm talking about you star
wars trilogy directors)Big thumbs up. I have been waiting for a film like this for a long
time.

******
16 May 2006
10
I wasn't a real big fan of movies until my friend let me borrow this
cause he didn't have a DVD player at the time. Wow was it good I mean
everything seemed perfect all the pieces were in the puzzle were put
into the right place the music the acting the directing the scenery it
was gorgeous and loads of fun Pirates of the Carribbean was without
questioning the best movie of 2003 (this and LOTR 3).Johnny Depp was the best choice for Jack Spareow being the reluctant
and funny hero along with Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley providing
the movies romance also did great along side the legendary Depp.
Geoffrey Rush whom I didn't know of till the release of this movie was
a terrific villain.The action was great awesome sword duels explosions at sea and the
terrific element of fantasy makes this film an ultimate adventurous
experience! The music was of perfect orchestration for this film. All
this and with Gore Verbinski's slick directing it's so hard not to like
this film. Can't wait till the second!

******
16 May 2006
10
This movie is one of the best ones i have ever seen, in my top five
along with movies like Shakespeare in love, sleepless in Seattle and
ladder 49. Not only was Johnny Depp absolutely brilliant as Jack
Sparrow, but he was irresistibly hot as well! The plot seemed
unbelievable and slightly cartoony on first sight, but when it was
transformed into a movie it developed into one of the most entertaining
and engaging stories of the year, even my lifetime! Johnny Depp was
hilarious as the eccentric Jack Sparrow, and i am looking forward A LOT
to the second and third movies not only to watch two more wonderful
plots unfold, but i can't wait to see Captain Jack Sparrow's cheeky
smile again...and i can't wait to see him run like a chicken who lost
control of his wings again either. The plot of this movie is
complemented further by the compositions of Klaus Badelt, one of the
first things i noticed while i was sitting in the cinema. The original
score that the rest of the music was based upon was pure musical
genius! Basically, Pirates of the Caribbean is Brilliant!

******
1 May 2006
9
Great action flick. I was quite surprised that Disney was behind this,
and that they gave Depp such free reign. He is a marvelous actor,
though, I love just about everything he's done.It was nice to see Orlando Bloom have some more lines than he did in
the LotR trilogy. And Geoffrey Rush...ah, Geoffrey...I love just about
everything you do as well (Quills, though? What were you thinking?).
Mr. Rush did such a great job, overshadowed only by Depp. What a great
character he created in Captain Jack Sparrow. But he's created so many
great characters.Johnny? When are you going to team up with Morgan Freeman to do
something? Now THAT would be a movie. But this one was great too.
Pirates of the Caribbean? Two enthusiastic thumbs up, and I highly
recommend it.Enjoy!

******
22 April 2006
10
This is one of the most fantastic movies I have ever seen. Brilliantly
done. This will be one movie that will be remembered for years to come.The story works. I ride the Pirates of the Caribbean at Disneyland all
the time. It's so refreshing to see that they just didn't copy the ride
story like Haunted Mansion did. It's original and doesn't feel like
you're just going on the ride. They used parts of the ride but only
when it fit into the story. They could have perfectly well made this
story without the ride at all and it still would be good. The scene
where Jack is in the prison and the others are trying to get the dog to
come over is hilarious, if you've been on the ride. But it's not like
the whole movie revolves around that dog. Just one of the subtle
touches that people love.I could go on forever on the acting. Every character is perfectly cast.
But the two that I must point out is Johnny Depp and Geoffrey Rush.
While every single actor and actress does a good job, these two stand
above the rest. Barbossa is no nonsense and completely threatening. A
villain worthy of the ranks among Darth Vader, Sauron, and Hans Gruber.
Jack Sparrow is . . . well he's different. Completely unique. Like none
you've ever seen before. Depp plays him almost like Christopher Walken
would. He does goofy things with all seriousness. He steals just about
every scene he's in. And when those two characters meet it's like when
Batman and Superman meet. Two great characters, great on their own and
even better together. I just love the way they play off each other.The CGI also terrific. It's not over the top like some movies tend to
get. When they need CGI they use it but don't use it everywhere. Just
the right amount. The most incredible scene is the Barbossa-Sparrow
fight. The two go in and out of the moonlight, both turning into
skeletons, and yet the CGI doesn't take away from the fight itself. The
CGI use is so great you'd have to go through the movie frame by frame
just to get it all. The CGI is just used to enhance the already good
story.The soundtrack is outstanding. The music never overwhelms the movie. It
fits in perfectly. It's also a great soundtrack to listen to on it's
own. It's one of my favorite CDs.Now, no movie is without it's flaws. The rules for the curse seem to
change. Like how exactly did Bootstrap Bill get out of the curse? Why
does Barbossa die when he's shot before Will drops the coin? It seems
that a movie of this size should have had such an important part of the
story a little more defined. But unless you really stop and think about
it or are just picky like that who cares. Also the last fight scene
seems a little tacked on. They just had this huge climatic battle and
then they decided to add just one more. It sort of seems like a pistol
shot after a cannon blast. It is nice to see Will and Jack working
together but after the previous fight it seems to drag the movie on
longer than it needs to be. But the movie works anyways.A great movie for everyone to enjoy. Go out and rent this, then go and
buy it. You'll love it. A movie you'll never regret seeing.

******
20 April 2006
9
Johnny Depp,Orlando Bloom,Keira Knightley...a good cast for a good
movie!And it has all that is required for a block-buster:funny
scenes,adventure...dead people... Moreover,Johnny Depp's performance
was flawless like always.But we should ask this question:why doesn't he
enjoy playing in block-busters? Seeing this movie is a great
opportunity to learn more about pirates...and their code for example.In
addition to this,it is perfect for a family reunion in front of the
TV,with a bowl of popcorn,of course! In my opinion,this is one of the
fewest movies which really deserves a sequel and of course all my
comments above will be applied to it. Enjoy!

******
23 February 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is one of the
greatest movies of all time! Johnny Depp gives his best performance in
this humorous movie that was inspired by a Disneyland ride, though I
didn't really see anything in common, except perhaps the treasure and
"dead men tell no tails" bit. *** Spoilers ahead***Orlando Bloom (Lord of the Rings trilogy) plays William Turner, a
blacksmith/ future pirate. Although he says he never will be a pirate,
he does some things that prove he is a good pirate. WARNING! There are
a few words that I would classify as bad, but you can mute the words if
you know where to look. I own the soundtrack to this movie; I highly
recommend it for those who love music.

******
18 February 2006
10
Well, all I can say is that Disney has finally redeemed themselves.
This is the best movie that Disney has ever released in a decade. I am
so glad that it is not for kids!!! It is very nice to see a Disney film
that is for older audiences. A very refreshing change for Disney.
Disney has been very successful with this movie and I think the sequels
that they are making for this film will be very successful as well.Anyway, i'll talk about the movie now. This movie was a pleasure to
watch. It had everything that makes a movie good. Humor, action, and
violence. The action sequences in this film were very enjoyable to
watch. My whole family watched this movie together and we all loved it!
That's saying a lot because usually my parents hate these kinds of
movies. However they had a lot of positive comments about this film. My
verdict: This film is very enjoyable to watch and I recommend it to
anyone and everyone.10/10

******
14 February 2006
10
This is one of the best movies of all time correction this is the best
movie of all time.Johnny Depp is genius in this film one of his best
roles.With One of the best casts with Johnny ,Orlando Bloom, Kiera
Knightly and Geoffery Rush this film plunges the deep Caribbean with
action drama romance and even comedy. That is probably what makes this
film so good there isn't just one genre there's several. Also this
isn't the classic and very overused Good vs. Evil we have The Black
Pearl crew the bad guys then we have Commodore Norringtons navy which
is the good guys but kinda are the bad guys also when they are keeping
Elizabeth from rescuing will and then we have the crazy crew of captain
jack sparrow which are pirates and bad guys to the Royal navy but good
guys to the pirates of the black pearl and then we have just Captain
Jack Sparrow who we never really know what side hes on.Another thing that makes this movie so incredibly awesome is the
hilarious quotes. Jack sparrow is one incredible character hes always
funny but serious its to hard to describe he has the most hilarious
facial expressions all the time and is never scared but always 3 steps
in front of everyone else.I have a friend who had never seen it because
she said the previews scared her but i begged her into watching it and
now thats all she talks about she bought the cereal she has a countdown
for the second and shes just about as obsessed as i am my dance troupe
has made our production dance pirates thats how incredibly awesome
everything in this movie is!!!!! If you haven't seen this movie you are missing something incredible !
Don't delay go out now and rent it the second one will be out soon July
7th 2006.

******
28 January 2006
9
This is an excellent adventure that is highly entertaining, with
amazing performances, however it goes on a bit too long. All the
characters are fantastic, and the story is awesome if a little
overlong, plus Johnny Depp, Keira Knightley and Geoffrey Rush are all
simply amazing in this. Orlando Bloom surprised my by giving a very
good performance, and his chemistry with Keira was on big time, plus
one of my favorite moments in this film is when Sparrow and Elizabeth
are on the Island, and there both drunk on the rum, then Keira gets rid
of it, and Depp's reaction just cracked me up!. Johnny Depp, gives one
of my favorite performances of all time as Jack Sparrow,and the sword
fight between him and Rush was extremely cool, plus the special effects
were great!. I thought the dialog was very clever, and I can't wait for
the two sequels! plus it's extremely well made and written as well. All
the characters are extremely likable, and the opening is especially
cool! plus I loved the ending as well. This is an excellent adventure,
that is highly entertaining, with amazing performances, however it goes
on a bit too long, still I say it's a must see for everyone!. The
Direction is excellent!. Gore Verbinski does an excellent! job here
with wonderful camera work, great angles, and plenty of other cool
shots as well, plus he kept the film at a very fast pace. The Acting is
amazing!. Johnny Depp is amazing as always and is incredible here, he
plays one of my favorite character of all time in Jack Sparrow, was
hilarious, extremely likable, wonderfully mysterious, had some of the
coolest makeup, and was just tons of fun to watch! (Depp Rules!!!!).
Geoffrey Rush is amazing as the evil Barbosa, he was simply chilling,
and I loved his accent, he also had some awesome makeup, and had one of
the coolest sword fights ever with Depp, he was clearly having a ball,
I loved him!. Orlando Bloom is surprisingly very good here, he was
likable, had some good scenes with Depp, and didn't annoy me like
usual, I dug him. Keira Knightley is incredibly gorgeous, and is
amazing here as Elizabeth Swan, she adds charm to her role, had very
good chemistry with Bloom, and gives one of her best performances to
date! (Knightley Rules!!!!). Jack Davenport is good as the arrogant
Norrington, and did his job well. Jonathan Pryce adds comic relief as
Elizabeth's father he was funny. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall a
must see for everyone!. ****1/2 out of 5

******
18 January 2006
9
What made this movie a huge success is definitely the cast. The story
is not different from any other pirates story, it is not really
original, but the cast gave another dimension to it, they brought it to
another level. Johnny Depp's interpretation is really amazing, you can
not not like Captain Jack Sparrow, Johnny made this pirate unique when
he could have been nothing more than a pirate among others. Plus the
battle scenes are really impressive, the photography is amazing and the
soundtrack is one the best I have ever heard. I am sure Pirates of the
Caribbean will be remembered as one of the best pirates movie ever
made.

******
4 January 2006
10
In short,this movie is not just good...It is awesome!!!Too good... The
Curse of the Black Pearl is actually a curse that has been laid upon
the pirates of the ship - Black Pearl.According to this same curse they
shall not be able to die without fulfilling certain conditions...The
movie is about this curse and revolves around four main characters
namely-Captain Jack Sparrow (awesome acting by Johnny Depp),Will
Turner(Orlando Bloom once more acting really well),Captain
Barbarossa(Geoffery Rush) and Elizabeth Swann(Kiera Knightley)...
Exceptional direction and picturization,and brilliant acting especially
by Johnny Depp sets the stage for this all time great...A
must-watch...Enjoy!!!

******
25 December 2005
10
The music to this movie is very beautiful and greatly added to its
success. It is both majestic and somber, but also exhilarating and
intense. I was so impressed with the film score that I bought the
soundtrack CD. The music is by fellow German Klaus Badelt a friend and
contemporary of the excellent film composer Hans Zimmmer
(Gladiator)....with numerous musical influences or references to
Motzart and Beethoven and others throughout. I also hear the
inspiration of another great pirate movie film composer named Eric
Korngold who wrote the music to Captain Blood and many others that
starred Errol Flynn. I only buy a film score if I feel that the music
can stand on its own minus the film. Not all film scores can do this,
but the movie music of the top film composers like John Williams and
Jerry Goldsmith do hold up quite well on their musical merits.I want
our High School band director to do a corps-style marching show based
on the music to Pirates of the Caibbean

******
14 December 2005
9
Inspired by Disneyland's classic ride, Pirates of the Caribbean is a
film of lovable characters, an eerie underscore, and action-packed
plot. The story runs a bit long and becomes slightly tedious to watch
towards the end, yet a typical Disney happy-ending saves the day just
in time for the viewers to walk away pleased with the movie and
secretly wishing they were pirates themselves. The film possesses all the classic characters and scenarios of a
romantic Disney adventure, including the young, fate-seeking hero, Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom), the comedic relief and clown, witty Jack
Sparrow (Johnny Depp), the uptight straight man, Commodore Norrington
(Jack Davenport), and the ruthless villain, Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey
Rush). Of course, let us not forget the leading lady, young miss Keira
Knightley, playing the governor's daughter Elizabeth Swann.Situated in the British, Caribbean colony of Port Royal, Swann wishes
to live the life of a pirate and not a governor's daughter, while her
admirer, the impoverished blacksmith, Will Turner, wishes to deny his
own pirate roots. Once mischievous Sparrow enters the town with his
agenda of rounding up a crew, stealing a British naval ship and
retrieving his rights as captain of the Black Pearl pirate ship, havoc
ensues. The entrance of the damned Black Pearl's crew into Port Royal is
quickly summoned by the last missing piece of treasure, which calls
them when Swann falls into the water with it (a gold coin) wrapped
around her neck. The pirates sac the town, stealing Swann and headed to
return the treasure and break their curse. The chase is on, once Turner
springs Sparrow from jail, for the ship and its desired possessions.
And that's just the first 20 minutes of this event-filled 2 hour and 23
minute movie. The hero's luck runs out, but just when all hope is lost,
Sparrow devises a plan to save his ship, get Will his girl and escape
the grips of both the cursed pirates and dim-witted British navy. Filled with an excellent cast and first-rate special effects, Pirates
makes it easy to truthfully accept the unbelievably fantastical events
of the film including sword fights, pirate ships on the open seas,
cannon warfare, and caves of treasure. Director Gore Verbinski brings
out the best of his actors, who enable the sometimes-cheesy script to
flow smoothly and as convincing dialogue. Depp's typical ability to
create a quirky and enchanting character is again fulfilled in his
drunken pirate role. He brings out the character's bad luck but
determined nature, making him the admirable good/bad guy. Depp's
humorous line delivery and outstanding timing nicely accompany his
scruff appearance, adorned with eyeliner, a bead-embellished wig, and
braided goatee. Rush also performs his role of the evil pirate convincingly and with
his usual gifted acting talent. Bloom slips nicely into his usual
typecast role as the love-driven romantic young lad, and his opposite,
then seventeen-year-old, British actress, Knightley brings the
adventurous, bold, and beautiful identity of Swann to life. Though none of these characters exist in the Disney adventure ride,
there are two similar scene's that lovers of the ride will recognize,
one being the stop at pirate infested Tortuga Island. The storyline
does become a bit boring and redundant, as the minutes turn to hours,
creating the feeling of déjà vu. Yet, the scheming scoundrel Jack
Sparrow saves the day, and the audience's attention only to sacrifice
himself to capture by the Royal Navy. Don't worry, though, it all ends
well as a good Disney movie should. Along with watching an action-packed, historical fantasy and obtaining
some great new words to add to daily jargon, such as 'savvy' 'parlay'
'commandeer' and 'ecumenically,' I somehow feel more complete. And just
when that sense of completeness fades, the sequel, promised by the
title's saga specificity The Curse of the Black Pearl, will probably be
in theatres.

******
29 November 2005
10
This was one of the very best movies that i have watched so
far.....went to the top of my lists straight away. And i think everyone
should know that J.Depp was the best in that movie and deserved a major
major award. He should be congratulated with his acting....it was
awesome...the moment i saw him...i decided he was my favourite
character. HE WAS THAT GOOD. Orlando was pretty good too and Keira as
well but the main person that grabbed my attention was Depp. In my
opinion, the spotlight was on him! This movie also has one of the best
story lines....i can't wait for the second one.....i don't know...i
love pirates and all that kind of stuff...so that's another reason of
why i liked the movie.

******
26 November 2005
9
You'll love it and leave wanting MORE! Thank goodness for sequels!!!
Some elements could be frightening for the very young, but overall it
is perfect for the family.Johnny Depp is at his absolute best, having taken his inspiration from
Keith Richards (The Rolling Stones) and...Pepe' le Pew! Kiera Knightly
and Orlando Bloom are born to play period roles.The staging is beautiful and the special effects are AMAZING! Jerry
Bruckheimer RULES. How did he do it? The references to the Disneyland
ride are perfect; not overdone, but familiar enough to those who've
enjoyed the ride.One of the most entertaining and imaginative movie of our time. It
rocks!

******
12 November 2005
10
I recently watched Pirates of the Caribbean again and it was great.The
cast is brilliant and Johnny Depp as Jack Sparrow was hilarious.Hes so
good at the part.Keira Knightly was excellent too and Orlando
Bloom(whom my big sister is madly in love with)was good too.(I prefer
Johnny)A great film which deserves heaps more of awards.I can't wait
for Pirates of the Caribbean 2:dead mans chest to come out.I will be
first in the ticket line at my local cinema to see it.It is
great.Excellent and i hoped so much Johnny Depp would get the Oscar for
his role in Pirates of the Caribbean.It was such a shame he didn't
win.He should have as i adore him.

******
30 October 2005
9
When I first saw this movie I thought that it would be a normal
"adventure movie" I didn't think that this is a comedy. Pirates of the
Caribbean is one of those movies that isn't entirely funny but there is
a character in it that makes you laugh every time you watch it, and
that of course is Captain Jack Sparrow, in this movie. He makes the
movie even better than it would have been without him: it had a good
plot and good supporting actors playing the other characters in the
movie. There isn't that much to say about this movie, just go see it,
enjoy it and be ready for a good action/comedy.9 out of 10

******
15 February 2005
8
A movie based on a "ride from Disneyland" or something like that. That
was the first i ever heard about this movie. Not the best premise for a
movie you might say. But i was very pleasantly surprised i must say.The governors daughter gets kidnapped by pirates. Her love-interest and
the famous captain Jack Sparrow both set out looking for her. Her love
wants her, Sparrow wants the pirate ship.Many have tried to live up to the matiné-classics of old. Or not just
them maybe, also more modern classics like the Indiana Jones-movies.
But it seems the essence of the adventure-film is hard to capture,
considering how many have failed. And the pirate genre especially seems
to be treacherous ground. Just think about such catastrophes as
"Cutthroat Island". Here though the tradition of adventure, and fun for
the whole family, is picked up in an admirable way.There are several elements that make this such a great experience. The
acting is solid, especially from Geoffrey Rush and Johnny Depp who both
seem to have a lot of fun here. Orlando Bloom is his rather stiff and
bland self, even though it's less evident here than in most cases. Also
this movie is very playful. It makes jokes at the genres expense, at
almost everyones expense. And foremost it doesn't take itself very
seriously. There is quite a bit of violence in the movie (it involves
pirates after all), but it's all quite mild and it never disturbs the
experience.When it comes to family fun this is one of the best i've seen. Not that
i'm a fan of the "family" genre, but still. And the older viewers can
always stare at Keira Knightley, and maybe dream that we too could
fence, sail and rescue ladies like her... Rating is 8/10 and very
recommended!

******
28 January 2005
7
This is the kind of movie that most people will either Like or Love,
There is little here to Hate, it is a good fantasy Movie.I also noticed that Women tend to rate this movie higher than Men (that
wouldn't be because of Mr Depp or Mr Bloom would it ladies?) In Short this film is Well cast and directed, it has great visual
effects and is good entertainment, the problem is this, the film simply
doesn't have enough story or character development to attain its quest
for epic status or justify its length. Strange as it may seem, this is
not a heavy criticism, because the film still carry's enough action,
humour and charm to be an enjoyable one.Most people will love it, but i just like it.7/10 for the film 10/10 for Johnny Depp's performance (it is masterful)

******
31 December 2003
9
After years of enjoyable viewing of 21 Jump Street, some of us did not
need this movie to appreciate Johnny Depp's talents and abilities as an
actor. But for the rest of the world, this was the springboard for
Depp's movie career.The movie begins with a hauntingly beautiful child singing of pirates
on the misty bow of a ship. She is cautioned not to bring pirates down
on them, by singing of them. Just after, a small boy is found floating
on a piece of wreckage, and the young girl child immediately identifies
him as a pirate, and hides his true nature/identity from her father the
Governor and the captain of the ship upon which they sail.You then fade to the same little girl as a grown woman (Keira
Knightly), dreaming of the day when she first found her William
(Orlando Bloom) adrift in the sea. She's hidden his treasure in a
secret compartment beneath one of the drawers in her bedside cabinet,
and obviously treasures it, as she does him.The remainder of the movie, she attempts to find herself, discover whom
she really is, and please her father at the same time. No easy task of
ANY daughter.William has since become an apprentice to the blacksmith of the small
seaside village in which they reside. He has learned his lessons so
well, in fact, that his master sleeps in a peaceful but drunken slumber
all the day while Will masters the work sent to their forge.These two are obviously in love, but Will knows his place, and refuses
to be familiar with her in any way, in the presence of her father the
Governor. Not quite the way to woo the lady's heart, there, Will.Enters now, Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), in a sinking
water-filled schooner. He himself bears no small resemblance to a
bilge-rat, as he rides the main mast of the sinking ship right up to
the harbor of the same village in which Elizabeth and William reside;
Port Royal.His shenanigans will not be tolerated, as he soon learns, and he
quickly finds himself in irons.We discover that Captain Jack Sparrow was once the captain of the Black
Pearl; the most feared pirate's ship to sail the Caribbean Sea. This
ship is rumored to have black sails, be crewed by the damned, and
captained by an evil darker than any other.There has been some criticism of the vocabulary used by the pirates,
but in reality, they did have quite the vocabulary. They had to trade
in many different ports, using many different languages fluently in
order to prevent themselves from being taken advantage of. These men
were mostly self-educated, learning the hard way. And while most could
not read and write, true enough, they could and would bargain with
anyone which could uplift their situation.They sought fame and riches. Having been heard of was akin to the
gunslingers of the US Western days having wanted posters of themselves
jealously secreted away within their own saddlebags. They lived by a
strict code of ethics, and experienced a very unstable lifestyle;
feasting one day, while enduring famine the next.Also, the "mascara" some critics have criticized, was usually Kohl,
used commonly by sea-farers of the time to block the sun out of their
eyes, much like football players use black stick, today. It does create
a rather dramatic look, but was a common technique used in the days of
such men as these.This story, while not wholly original, borrowed from every pirate movie
I've ever seen, but uplifted and upgraded those old tales. It was
extremely well told, convincingly executed, and brilliantly portrayed
by Depp and Bloom. I've acquired a new respect for both of their work,
of late, actually. And while this does not possess the epic qualities
of some other recent productions, Bloom's talents were just as well
exercised here as they were in his most recent success.As for the wardrobe of the pirates, they were in the Caribbean; an
exotic place, populated by people of colorful cultures. Their dress,
while basically British, was properly colored by the islands in which
they prowled.Reportedly, having modeled his Jack Sparrow character closely after
Keith Richards, Depp's flawless Cockney accent was quite believable and
near perfect. He worked very hard on that portion of his character, as
was obvious by his beautiful and colorfully wide use of the Cockney
hyperbole. "All by me onsie," meaning all by myself, and so on.There was one element with which I had some qualms, however. That of
the undead army. Having recently seen LotR: RotK, I could not help but
compare the undead armies to one another, and found that this one was a
tiny bit lacking. Their movements were sometimes choppy, hesitant,
clumsy and not surreal as was Jackson's. These lacked the graceful,
floating ghostly quality that was exhibited in Jackson's masterpiece.
They ~looked~ real enough, but their movements were awkward and clumsy.Other than that, I was completely delighted with this endeavor, and
cannot wait to see the next installment of this franchise. I hope it is
a long-running one.It rates an 8.8/10 from...the Fiend :.

******
22 August 2003
8
"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" takes you on
an adventure full with sword fights, explosions, bottles of rum and
much humor.This certainly is the most fun movie of the year (yet). It's an awesome
"feel good" movie. The movie has a very high entertainment value, not
only because of the fun story itself but also and mainly because of
Johnny Depp. It has been said many times before and it will be said
many times again but Depp is fantastic in this movie! His character
introduction is priceless! But let's also not forget the perfectly
casted Geoffrey Rush who also seemed to have lot's of fun making this
movie.The story is one big adventure and it has all the typical pirate
adventure elements in it. Added to that there are the cursed ghost
pirates and the British marine with as a result an even bigger
adventure story. The movie is full with crazy and fun characters and
there is some great dialog and much much comedy. In other words, how
could you not like this movie?The musical score is awesome, even though you can hear it was done in
an hurry. The music uses lot's of elements from previous Media Venture
scores such as "Gladiator" and "Black Hawk Down" but it just suits the
movie very well and gives it an extra cool feeling.Visually the movie looks simply amazing. The costumes are great and so
are the sets. But even better are the special effects, the way the
cursed pirates (and monkey) in the moonlight look is amazing.The fights are cool, however I feel that it could have used some more
wide shots instead of quick fast cuts. The final fight is amazing
mainly because of the special effects where the characters change from
their cursed look into their normal human look and back again time
after time every time when they step into the moonlight.No Oscar material, just great fun for everyone to watch over and over
again! Also very recommendable if you like the "Monkey Island" games.8/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

******
14 August 2003
8

Pirates of the Caribbean is your traditional summer blockbuster: it has good
special effects, a lot of action, a few pretty faces and not too much of a
story. But that is not all. It was produced by Jerry Bruckheimer, which
usually means that it is very high on the entertaining side and nothing
more. Pirates of the Carribean fits that profile almost exactly. It is
entertaining (although slightly longish when the cave is visited for the
second time), that's for sure, but the makers of this film have succeeded in
doing something that I had not yet seen in a summer flick of this magnitude
(or maybe I have simply forgotten). They have chosen a cast, that was so
superb on the one side, that it almost all of the other actors became mere
puppets. Yes folks, I am talking about Johnny Depp. He is just amazing as
Jack Sparrow. It is not that he is amazingly funny or something, but he just
manages to surprise you over and over again. Then there is the accent and of
course not to forget that strange way of movement he has throughout the
film. Jack Sparrow might be quirky but he is not in your face' quirky and
that is something I also liked about that character. Johnny Depp ruled as
Jack Sparrow and outshone all but one of his co-stars who became mere
puppets in the Jack Sparrow Show'. The exception was (of course) Geoffrey
Rush, who was very solid and did a good Job as Captain Barbossa. The rest of
the cast, well I've said it and I'm not sorry for telling the truth: you
acted decent, but in the presence of Mr.Depp you faded into the
background.Concluding this review I'd have to say that the acting was the only
surprising thing in this film. There are some typical one-liners which
either fall flat or which I just do not consider funny (SPOILERS AHEAD),
like when the pirate in the cave says: `I'm gonna teach you the meaning of
pain!' (SPOILERS END). This sort of thing simply does not do it for me. Also
I thought that I, as a viewer, was not involved' deeply enough in the love
between Elizabeth and William. Jack Sparrow was just too overwhelming and I
feel that the film could have actually done without about everything but
Jack Sparrow, without losing it's appeal. This is well made, light-hearted
summer entertainment though and not some film you are supposed to think
about. Worth watching once, maybe even twice (for seeing Jack Sparrow again
most likely), but then it should be left alone.8 out of 10

******
24 August 2009
6
as you can see I've not rated this film bad because there is a few
qualities about it such as Johnny Depps acting as the pirate Jack
Sparrow is quite comical and the graphics were good too. there was a
lot of floors to the film too, a lot of cheesy bad acting is the worst.
i just hated some things about it. its well overrated too, to be rated
8.0 on IMDb is a very lucky achievement for this.Orlando Bloom as Will Hunting and Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swan are
also among the cast and do a fairly good job. i do think Johnny Depps
acting in this clouds over the other actors, he has done a very good
job of this. the action and graphics have a big part to play in this
almost epic feature.overall this film does deserve a watch but has been well overrated....
a good thing about the film is that there isn't really anything like
this film around. was a good watch.......... 6/10......... j.d Seaton

******
11 June 2008
8
The first and best by a country mile POTC film.It embodies everything
that is fun about blockbuster cinema, great leads,relentless
fun,fantastic music,clever script and a fizzing little story.The film
arrived with no expectation, the trailer puzzled most folks but the
film gathered momentum through glorious praise and word of mouth
reviews.Others have said it but Johnny Depp is amazing in the lead
role.The guy has played some distinctive roles in his time, Ed
Scissorhands etc, etc but i feel that this is his defining moment. This
is the role that people will remember him for.He improvises the
character to wonderful effect and is joined by fun performances from
Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley.Gore Verbinski has proved himself to
be adept in the big league and even though the sequels clearly lacked
inspiration,the best of his talents are on show here as he allows his
Depp to work his magic.The following films have somewhat tarnished the
look of this film by being overlong and largely boring but as a
standalone pirate adventure film, look no further than this.

******
12 May 2008
10
'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl' is undoubtedly
the best pirate movie of all-time- and this is including the Errol
Flynn films.Yes, Johnny Depp does make a better pirate than Errol Flynn as well.Depp is the charm of this movie, which only adds on to a film that has
a lot going for it: Disney-ride charm, endearing and classical
characters, fantastic shots, courtesy of Jerry Bruckheimer, and an
engaging story. Standing on its own, separate from the debated other
two pirate films which make a trilogy, 'Curse of the Black Pearl' is a
treasure that should last for years.

******
26 April 2008
10
When my family first got this out, I thought it might be okay. It. Was.
Brilliant. It's an interesting plot, but, as you can probably guess, it
was Johnny Depp's slightly odd, Keith Richards-based, cunning Jack
Sparrow ('scuse me, sorry, CAPTAIN Jack Sparrow) who steals the show
with his madness and classic one-liners.However, this does not mean that Depp was the only good member in the
cast. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley work well together and Geoffrey
Rush is his usual excellent and versatile self. Plus, the script was
good. It was really nice to see a Pirate movie that's made for the
modern-day audience, or even a modern pirate movie at all.I recommend you watch this; it really is a work of genius.

******
22 July 2006
10
This is my single favourite movie in the entire world. I'm serious.
Ever since I got it on DVD just a week ago, I've watched it every
single day. I'm close to memorizing all the dialogue and I know every
shot. As I write this, it's paused on the television in my room.The reason I love this movie so much is mostly the character work. The
cursed Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) instills such fear in me, and
at the same time, draws a burning sense of pure pity for his plight.
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), while a fine lady in all respects,
is feisty and vivacious as well. Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) is a good
friend and a fine man, modest and brave.However, the character of Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) is by far the most
excellently played character I've ever seen. You can see deeply into
his personality, simply by the motions Mr Depp goes through. It is
clear that Jack, while a pirate, is indeed a good man. He is honourable
and stands by his word at all times. His main goal in life is simply
freedom; all of his crimes were to further that goal. He also dislikes
taking away the dignity of his adversaries. He would never commit
mutiny or murder for that reason.The one thing I even remotely disliked was Orlando Bloom's wooden
acting. He seemed to be only able to deliver his lines in one tone, one
personage. It was fine for the first half-hour or so, but after that I
was mostly just waiting for his parts to be over and so we could get
back to Jack Sparrow's screen time.The score for this movie is absolutely STUNNING. It's filled with
powerful strings and strong brass, and it has been soaring through my
head ever since the first time I saw this movie.All in all, this is a masterpiece. By all means, I encourage you to see
and purchase this amazing film. You will not regret it, I guarantee you
of that.

******
29 October 2005
8
Everybody likes pirates! (Well, not the music industry, but
whatever...) Johnny Depp shines as Captain Jack Sparrow, a cleverly
klutzy pirate who is in search for the Black Pearl and the crew that
mutinied it from him. Leader of the mutineers is Captain Barbossa, a
mean dirty pirate with a curse that sends him searching for the pieces
of some ancient Aztec gold... and the blood of a good pirate's son.It also involves a side story about that young son (Will Turner, played
by Orlando Bloom) and the love of his life (Elizabeth Swann, played by
Keira Knightley), but nobody cares.Honestly, Johnny Depp MADE the movie. His perfect characterization of a
quirky swashbuckler is both funny and memorable. His personality and
charisma shines from screen to screen as he tries to figure out how to
get what he wants when everybody else seems to be against him.Depp by himself, though, would have made for a strained and bad movie
indeed. Even a good actor with a good character can be dire and silly
in a movie that doesn't compliment them. Thus we have Geoffrey Rush's
Barbossa, the driven evil that compliments Depp's Sparrow well. Rush
obviously had a lot of fun with the role and it's a real joy to see
him, especially when working off of Depp.It also has some pretty good dialog, stuff to make you laugh in between
action moments. Very quotable, stuff like, "Where's the rum?" which is
bound to stay in fanboy lingo for ages to come.--PolarisDiB

******
25 October 2005
8
This is a good movie directed by Gore Verbinski and starring Johnny
Depp, Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley. Depp plays
Captain Jack Sparrow who in the first scene is looking to steal a ship
because his previous ship was stolen from him. Bloom plays a blacksmith
who is in love with Knightley but she is the daughter of the Governor
and is asked by a top guard to the governor if she'll marry him. Their
is a lot of plot to the movie and at almost two and a half hours the
movie doesn't even seem that long. Rush makes a great villain who tried
to kill Depp before and Depp is looking for revenge. It's a good movie
and i can't wait for the two sequels coming out next year.

******
22 September 2004
8

To be honest, I didn't expect much from this movie when it came out.
Everyone was talking about the SFX, noone really mentioned the story,
so I didn't consider it worth watching in the theatre. However, when a
friend borrowed me the DVD, I changed my mind completely.Nowadays, when a movie comes out, it usually falls under at least one
of these categories: a) it's made after a book (or a comic), b) it
focuses on SFX rather than on storytelling, and c) it belongs to a
genre which has been completely exhausted during the last couple years.
Now none of these points mean that it is a bad movie, however when at
least two points apply, it's mostly bound to be a flick you watch once
and then forget about. It was truly refreshing to see a movie which for
a change didn't apply to any of these categories.Meanwhile I bought the DVD, and I catch myself watching the movie or
parts of it over and over again. 'Pirates of the Caribbean' basically
does everything right. It has a gripping, immersing story, a great cast
and dedicated crew, great photography and a wonderful musical score. It
belongs to a genre which has been nearly extinct in the last years, it
has a story which strays from the usual stereotypes, and it uses SFX to
make the movie better, not just to show off with latest technology.Johnny Depp is just brilliant in the role of Jack Sparrow, he makes you
laugh over and over again. As does Geoffrey Rush, who plays Captain
Barbossa. Some of the cast stay a bit pale, like Orlando Bloom, who I
think can do better. The SFX blend perfectly into the movie, these
skeletons are great. The music is wonderful as well, worth buying the
soundtrack. The score is so catchy, I find myself humming or whistling
parts of it constantly.This is entertainment at its best. Not an alltime classic, it doesn't
have too much of a message, but that wasn't the goal of making it
anyway. Worth watching several times, since you discover new details
every time. Right now it ranks pretty high in my favourite list. 8/10
stars from me for this one.


******
3 August 2003
6

This easily could have been your run of the mill pirate movie but thank god
Johnny Depp is not only a terrific actor but one that adds real "Character"
to his characters. Film starts out with a young boy found adrift at sea with
a gold medallion around his neck and an old ship which looks like a ghost
ship is spotted. Years later the boy Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) is working
with a blacksmith and in love with Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) and she
is the daughter of Governor Weatherby Swann (Jonathan Pryce) who would
rather see his daughter marry Cmdr. Norrington (Jack Davenport). One day at
port a strange sailor shows up as his small vessel sinks and he is found out
to be pirate Jack Sparrow (Depp). They want to hang him but that night the
town is attacked by pirates headed by Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) and
Jack has a personal beef with him. Seems as though Jack was the Captain of
the ship Black Pearl but the crew performed a mutiny and left Jack on a
deserted island which he escaped from. Two of the pirates grab Elizabeth
because she has Will's medallion and while questioning her she says her last
name is Turner. She discovers during her kidnapping that the pirates are
really the walking dead and in the moonlight they appear as rotted cadavers.
They think she is related to "Boot Strap" Turner who was a pirate that they
killed and they need the blood of his offspring to become human again. Jack
and Will steal a ship and go to recruit sailors so they can save Elizabeth
and Jack can reap the rewards as well. This film is directed by Gore
Verbinski and along with "Mouse Hunt" he demonstrates a real flare for
lavish sets and decorum. The sets are terrific here and the special effects
are pretty good as well, especially some of the underwater shots looking up
at the bottom of the ships. The big problem with this film (Besides being
too long) is the script. How many times did Depp get captured by either side
and then have to talk his way out? And the romance between Bloom and
Knightley is just so cliche. Knightley is particularly dreary. She's a fresh
pretty young face but in this film her role could have been performed by any
other actress and it would have been the same. She showed much more spark
and left an indelible mark in the film "Bend It Like Beckham". Here, she's
just a forgettable pretty face. What saves this film is Depp and Rush.
Thankfully these two remarkable actors add so much imagination to their
roles and they give the film the added flavor it badly needed. Can you
imagine this film without them? Depp has stated that he played his role in
the nature of a drunken Keith Richards and with the eyeliner he wears its a
joy to watch him. Rush also does a good job and with that monkey on his back
he seems to be having a good time. Some of the other pirates are played on a
comedic level and one that stands out is the pirate with a glass eye. The
film doesn't take itself seriously and this attitude works to its advantage.
This film came very close to being very routine but with the performances of
Depp and Rush they together save it from being predictable and stale.


******
25 October 2005
10
Yo ho ho and a bottle of rum! That's what I feel like having watched
"Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl"! I have to
admit that I don't know any other pirate movies, but this one gives the
genre the best possible name. It's mainly due to Johnny Depp's
ultra-neat role as swashbuckler Jack Sparrow, but there's other things
too.It all begins when a little girl retrieves a medallion from a boy; she
doesn't realize just how important this particular medallion is!
Several years later, we see that this now grown-up girl is Elizabeth
Swann (the ever gorgeous Keira Knightley), the governor's daughter.
Unfortunately, that's when the pirates led by Capt. Hector Barbossa
(Geoffrey Rush) storm the town and take Elizabeth hostage.Enter Jack Sparrow and his brave companion Will Turner (Orlando Bloom).
These guys may be oddballs, but boy do they know how to fight pirates!
Depp based his characterization on Keith Richards (yes, THE Keith
Richards), and he plays the role to great effect. "POTC: TCOTBP" is a
real treat from beginning to end. Gore Verbinski is proving himself to
be a very interesting director, with this movie - plus "Mouse Hunt" and
"The Ring" - to his credit. Now that I've seen this movie, I almost
might like to try out a little swashbuckling myself. A pirate's life
just might be the life for me...

******
2 July 2004
8

I saw the movie for the second time and decided to write this review. I
don't think it's a good idea to write one just after you saw the movie
for the first time, because you can be too impressed by the movie and
therefore not thinking clearly.The movie is nice, very nice, and I'm sure I will see it multiple times
more, but to say »it's the best movie ever« is as ridiculous as the
fact that all three movies of the »Lord Of The Rings« trilogy are in
the top ten of all times on this site. A great movie, in my opinion, is
the one that raises important issues and forces you to think about them
and generates strong emotions together with superb acting. So, by
definition, I tend to like dramas a lot. I know I can't expect this kind of things in an adventure movie. So, I
saw POTC just to have fun and I had a great time. It's a movie which
was designed to make a lot of money and entertain the whole family
(like Disney's parks), and it did its job perfectly. I can imagine it
must be so magical for the kids. Jack Sparrow, brought brilliantly to
life by Johnny Depp is so charming and witty. I bet there are children
out there arguing at play because everyone wants to be the Captain.
Bloom did all right but that's it. I'm kinda romantic guy, so I did
like scenes between Orlando and Keira, but I can understand they were
very pathetic for some people. She did much better in them, he was
basically just staring at her.The story is interesting enough, it has golden treasure, curse and
pretty good twists, effects are impressive, movie is also very funny.
So, if you are looking for some fun, this is the right choice.


******
22 February 2004
7

Absolutely entertaining. Jack Sparrow(Johnny Depp) a rogue pirate joins the
efforts of a young blacksmith in saving a damsel(Keira Knightley)in distress
and fighting a ghostly group of villainous pirates to recapture a ship he
claims has been stolen from him. Sword clashing adventure and off beat humor
coupled with some very good special effects makes for an interesting escape
from the real world. Depp proves himself a master craftsman. What role can't
he play? The cast also features Orlando Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, Jonathan Pryce
and Damian O'Hare. NOTE: It has been said that Depp patterned his pirate character after
spending some time with Keith Richards of the Rolling Stones.

******
13 February 2004
8
'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl' is one of the
most entertaining films I have seen in years. It is not really great,
but every single aspect is terrific and that makes sure you don't see
its flaws very easily. One of the flaws is the logic, but in a film
like this things are not supposed to be logical, so why bother asking
that kind of questions.The story, pretty standard with the usual twists, is actually quite
good, or at least good enough to keep our attention. I could tell you
about it but I think it would sound too silly; it kind of is. We have
stories about a curse and a pirate ship called the Black Pearl with its
Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), we have a pirate named Jack Sparrow
(Johnny Depp), we have a young man named Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)
who loves Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley). She loves him too but she
is about to marry Norrington (Jack Davenport). Her father is Governor
Swann (Jonathan Pryce), not the most unimportant person.What curse there is on the Black Pearl you have to see for yourself.
Neither am I going to say why the curse is there. Let me just talk
about the good stuff. The visual effects are marvelous. Everything
looks (and sounds) great. Locations, costumes, makeup. The sword fights
and the battles between the English and the pirates are exciting, there
is never a moment you are bored.It is not all fighting and visual effects. In the quiet moments we have
the most wonderful performance from Johnny Depp. His Jack Sparrow is
one of the characters from the movies you are going to remember and the
fact that he earned an Oscar nomination for this part says enough. He
is so good you almost forget the other actors. Geoffrey Rush comes
close to Deppp as the villain Barbossa and actors like Bloom and
Knightley play their parts quite well. Unfortunately for them they are
always in the shadow of the perfect Depp.There are more good things that make this film entertaining, but I
would have to go in detail. I think I have given you enough reasons to
see this film (and believe me, Depp alone is reason enough). For a very
good time 'Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black pearl' is
as good as it gets.

******
15 July 2003
6

BE WARNED: THIS MOVIE IS FOR CHILDREN. Don't expect any kind of realistic
characters, smart comedy, or even a good plot. It's just one more average
Disney production aimed at entertaining children and jump-starting
Disney's
toy sales.

******
23 September 2004
7
The movie deals upon a curse on a pirates , then they abduct the
starring named Elizabeth Swan(Kiera Knightley) with the aim she free
them of a damned spell.But she's helped by a likable pirate named Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp)
and a rush blacksmith (Orlando Bloom).They will have to confront a nasty villain (Geoffrey Rush)and his
henchmen.The runtime film is overlong : two hours and some , but is neither
boring , nor tiring but entertaining.The motion picture mingles adventures, action packed,tongue in
cheek,rip roaring, humor , love and is enough bemusing.The movie there is a homage to the pirates' films, also to Ray
Harryhausen and his picture ¨Jason and the Argonauts¨ regarding the
living skeletons. First rate interpretation by Johnny Depp ,he plays
like a ¨drag queen¨ and Robert Newton in the film titled 'Blackbeard'.Kiera Knightley is beautiful but lacks her experience who proved in his
followings hits , becoming first star.Oscar winner Geoffrey Rush(Shine)is excellent but overacting.Colorful, glamorous cinematography by Dariuz Wolski and lavish
production by Jerry Bruckheimer.Direction by Gore Verbinsky and Klaus Badlet's music is riveting.It's followed by two sequels : ¨Dead man's chest¨ and ¨At world's end¨
with similar actors and technicians.Rating: 6,5/10 . Good.

******
14 December 2003
8
I never believed I was going to enjoy CURSE OF THE BLACK PEARL as I
stuck it in the DVD player . After all it was produced by Jerry
Brukheimer who's only real critically acclaimed film BLACK HAWK DOWN is
down more to director Ridley Scott rather than producer Bruckheimer and
let's not forget he also produced Armageddon and PEARL HARBOR two of
the most obscene wastes of money Hollywood has come up with in recent
years . In fact I would have paid good money NOT to have seen either of
these films The production team seem to have taken a leaf out of the Peter Jackson
book of film making by casting hunks as heroes with Shakespearian
trained actors in the supporting roles . The cast are very good .
Johhny Depp was atrocious as an English police inspector in FROM HELL
but here as Jack Sparrow his camp English accent is entirely in keeping
with the tone of the film . It also makes good business sense too ,
just think of the amount of 20 something woman who'll go to watch Depp
play a swashbuckling rogue . Same with Orlando Bloom who's incredibly
popular with a teenage girl audience . Keira Knightley ? Yeah she's
really fit but like these other much hyped English Roses such as Julia
Ormand in LEGENDS OF THE FALL and Kate Winslett in TITANIC I doubt if
she'll be a household name many years from now , she is good as the
ballsy heroine in this though . The always under rated Jonathon Pryce
is slightly disappointing probably because like so many great stage
actors he's not very good with camp humour . By an ironic contrast
Geoffry Rush gives the best performance as the villain , a performance
that may see him get an Oscar nod as best supporting actor There does seem to be a lot of debate as to how well this film will do
at the Oscars . I very much doubt if it'll be up for best picture or
director ( It is a fantasy film and this genre is always over looked by
the academy ) but it does deserve a handful of technical award
nominations in the fields of cinematography , editing , sound , costume
design and special effects . Unfortunately it's going to be up against
RETURN OF THE KING and MASTER AND COMMANDER which means a probable
empty treasure chest for these pirates which is a pity ***** SPOILERS *****No review of mine is complete without a few grumpy complaints so here
they are : Once again the Brits are shown to be stupid and incompetent
but that's Hollywood for you , while there's a serious plot hole at the
end where it's revealed that Jack Sparrow has been suffering from the
curse all along so how did he manage to stay out of the moonlight
without anyone noticing his skeletal state ? And how did he manage to
get drunk on rum ?But no matter I liked this movie and I thought I'd I never say this but
I hope to see the words " Produced by Jerry Brukheimer " a lot more in
the futureUpdate - Sorrymy mistake . Jack wasn't suffering from the curse all
along . Thanks to the forty or so people who wrote to me pointing this
out

******
9 September 2010
8
Disney makes good movies sometimes. In this case it's a pirate movie. I
normally don't really care for pirate movies, but this one was quite
well done! Good acting, funny humor, many cool scenes, and so on.It was actually quite interesting how the story went together so well.
It was a bit confusing, but still was very interesting. I liked the CGI
and how that worked. Considering how much technology has advanced since
then.I hopefully will get the chance to watch the two other movies soon and
I hope that they will be as good as this one! And I heard it was based
off a ride, not a book. I'm very impressed.

******
21 August 2010
8
This is a great shallow movie. No pretensions, great action, great
jokes, pretty good actors. Directed by the well-known Gore Verbinski
(no? not well-known? C'est la vie) and starring Johnny Depp, Orlando
Bloom, Geoffrey Rush, and some woman I forget.Like Tommy Lee Jones, Johnny Depp has pretty much stopped acting and
started playing the same role in all his films. (Tommy Lee Jones is now
acting like Richard Crenna in Hot Shots! Part Deux or Wrongfully
Accused or maybe Rambo IV, I forget.) But I digress. Depp here plays
Jack Sparrow beautifully (and famously as Keith Richards), and the film
kept me laughing from the opening scene to somewhere near the end.It's a great buddy film, although lacking the ensemble acting of "The
Princess Bride." The bad guys are not really bad, the good guys are
really, really good, and our hero gets the girl. The special effects
are excellent and used to good, uh, effect: creepy when they should be
creepy and hilarious when they should be funny. I was sorry when it was
over.

******
7 May 2010
9
The first Pirates of the Carrabean is really entertaining. It has a lot
of action, a lot of comedy, and a lot of special effects. All the
characters are creative. Will Turner, a blacksmith trying to find his
childhood friend, Elizabeth Swann, a hot heroine who certainly isn't a
Damsall in Distress, and Captain Jack Sparrow, a wity, crazy pirate
that can get out of any situation. There are many other characters too,
but they would take too long too explain. My only problem with this
film is the problem everyone seems to have with the third film, it's
hard to follow. So I don't really care, I just watch the action, and
effects. If you're one of the six people who haven't seen this movie,
buy it on DVD, it's fun, entertaining, and is just plain great.

******
1 April 2010
7
As children everyone liked Disney everybody liked Disneys stories .
This one was very impressive and maybe curious . Pirates of Caribbean
are bringing some new dimension and the are really entertaining . This
is one good classic and I really liked it . Scenes were impressive and
they are well made . Whole movie is very adventurous and it is so good
. Maybe movie will look like some fairytale but it is so attractive
that I wanted to watch and other movies from this serial . Johnny Depp
as Jack Sparrow had stunning performance . Keira Knightley was also
very good but maybe sometimes too childish . Orlando Bloom didn't
impress me so much because of his maybe too uninteresting performance .
Other characters were looking simply good . This movie in comparison
with others is maybe too simply.

******
19 March 2010
8
This movie is, and probably will be, one of my favorite movies. It's
fun, the characters are likable, it's light-hearted, and let's face it:
there aren't nearly enough pirate movies being made anymore.The plot isn't the most serious of stories ever written, but it wasn't
really meant to be. Besides, it works well, and it kept me interested
for the two and a half hours it went for, and it's better then a lot of
stories I've seen done in movies.When I first saw this movie in the cinemas; I was impressed. Seven
years later, watching it on DVD at home, I'm equally impressed now as I
was then, though the CGI is a little outdated now (not that it's a
problem).

******
8 January 2010
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl Disney ride
becomes a full length theatrical hit that may be as if not more
exciting than the ride. Pirates throws you right into the action and
never stops.We begin with a young Elizabeth Swann, daughter of Gov.Weatherbee Swann
who's ship rescues a young Will Turner from a wrecked ship which was
destroyed by our villains which I will mention later. Eight years fly
by and Elizabeth and Will are young adults.Elizabeth is set to be engaged with Beckett a side character in this
who plays a more important role in the sequels to come. Jack Sparrow
makes his "grand" entrance by sailing to Port Royale on a sinking ship,
tries to commandeer a new ship, then rescues Elizabeth.After his heroic attempt, it is discovered he is in fact a Pirate and
is sentenced to death. That night, the villains seen earlier make their
appearance in Port Royale as they are looking for cursed aztec gold
which Elizabeth possesses. Believing she is the descendant to Will
Turner's father who's blood was needed to undo the curse, she is taken
hostage. Will breaks Captain Jack out of jail and they set foot on a
journey that takes them to many places and battles. I will not spoil
the rest.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is the first in
a trilogy of movies based on the Disney ride of the same name. This
movie features pretty decent performances from its actors; Johnny Depp,
Orlando Bloom, and Kiera Knightly. It features some great swashbuckling
action but some of the swashbuckling scenes aren't so greatly
choreographed which brings me to some flaws of the movie.Captain Barbossa really isn't that menacing of a villain. He is
charismatic and charming sometimes wicked even, but he's no Joker, he's
no Darth Vader, by far no Hanabal Lector. Sure the scenes were Barbossa
and his crew turn into undead pirates are great example of the special
effects in this movie, he really isn't a menacing villain and he
doesn't have much of an evil plan. This movie is just meant to be fun.
It doesn't have a complex plot, its a very simple plot even, but it is
just meant to be good ole brainless(well I can't call this completely
brainless though) summer fun.Once you see this, you will be wanting to get on this ride again, I
promise you. This is definitely one of the best Disney movies in quite
sometime due to the declining quality of Disney movies excluding Pixar
who has yet to make a bad movie to date. I give Pirates of the
Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, despite the flaws I
mentioned(the good by far outweighs the bad here), 10 swords out of 10!
Coming Soon, my review for Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest
and Pirates of the Caribbean:At World's End. Which one will be the best
of the three? Find out soon!

******
26 December 2009
9
Gore Verbinski directs a movie based on a theme park ride. You could be
forgiven for thinking that there wasn't going to be much to enjoy (and
to see how horribly wrong things could have gone just watch The Haunted
Mansion as a prime example) but you would be very, very wrong.It's all here. Young love flourishing between the governor's daughter
,Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley), and blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando
Bloom). A young man who takes great pride in his work (Jack Davenport)
and looking to make examples of any pirates he may come across. And a
bunch of cursed pirates led by Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) who are wanting
to lift the curse and regain the pleasures of life they have long since
stopped experiencing. Oh, and there's some other pirate chap called
Jack Sparrow who's played by a little-known actor called Johnny Depp.
Jack wants his ship back from Barbossa and the crew who mutinied
against him a long time ago.At a little over two hours long, this movie never feels dull or as if
it's overstaying it's welcome. It is, in fact, one of the best
all-round pieces of simple entertainment I have seen in years thanks to
solid direction, excellent special effects and a script that balances
comedy, action, thrills and characterisation superbly. It also has to
be said, as it has been said a hundred times before, that Depp's
performance elevates the whole thing to another level. Every time he's
on screen it's a major bonus and, luckily for viewers, he gets a large
share of the screen time.Pirates are a fun subject matter for movies and it's a shame that they
have never really been better treated by modern cinema (hey, I enjoyed
Cutthroat Island but I know I'm on my own with that one). Well, this
movie and it's sequels has finally corrected that. Swashbuckling,
ribtickling, goosebump-raising, it has it all and it has it all in
spades. Hats off to Verbinski, to the writers and to everyone involved
(including the likes of Mackenzie Crook, who I may one day forgive for
his appearance in Sex Lives Of The Potato Men thanks to his fun turn in
this movie).See this if you like: The Adventures Of Robin Hood, Captain Blood, The
Goonies.

******
3 October 2009
9
This has to be one of my favorite movies of all time! I never was
really into pirates until I saw this movie.Captain Jack Sparrow is one of the most comical characters I've seen!
Half-drunk all the time, stumbling around, and charming the ladies,
Sparrow is never boring to watch.The chemistry between Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann is amazing! Kiera
Knightly did a fantastic job, and Orlando Bloom was very good too, and
very handsome! They were perfect together, I think.The story was very creative and original. It's very piratey and
exciting. The special effects are incredible, for the early 2000's. I
enjoyed watching the cursed pirates going in and out of the moonlight,
changing from normal humans to skeletal undead things. The action
sequences kept me on the edge of my seat the whole time.This is truly a classic. I'm sure this movie will be remembered for a
long long time.

******
7 August 2009
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a fantastic
film. I think Johnny Depp got his first Oscar nomination for it. In my
opinion, he definitely deserved it. Johnny Depp is mostly the reason
why I gave Pirates of the Caribbean such a high rating. Not only is it
an amazing film, Johnny Depp and Geoffry Rush make it very interesting.
Depp and Rush play Jack Sparrow and Captain Barbossa, two rival pirates
who are still having at it after so many years. Both Rush and Depp are
great. The Plot: A medallion needs the blood of William Turner, who's
father put the curse on this ship. So Will teams up with the greatest
pirate legend, Jack Sparrow, to save his love Elizabeth from the crew
and stop the curse. I love Pirates of the Caribbean. I actually love
the entire trilogy, though the third film was weakish. The original
film was the best without a doubt. The film wasn't a critical success,
though it was nominated for five Oscars. Screw critics, Pirates of the
Caribbea: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a great film, without a
doubt.

******
9 November 2008
9
The crew of the Black Pearl are cursed by something most unimaginable,
the only way to lift the curse is to return a lost Aztec coin to its
treasure chest home. In the way of them achieving their goal is the
British Governor's daughter, the son of Bootstrap Turner, oh and a
former comrade by the name of Captain Jack Sparrow who the crew had
left to die on an island some time ago.It's now common knowledge that Pirates Of The Caribbean is a film based
upon a theme park ride of the same name, tho that ride is not actually
a roller-coaster, it's fair to say that this film most assuredly is. A
swashbuckling ripper of an adventure yarn cramming in every pirate film
staple it can and pouring on layers of charm at every turn. Into the
broth goes romance, comedy and striking adventure, and director Gore
Verbinski even manages to give the children watching little slices of
horror, not enough to keep them up at night, but enough to bring on an
uneasy grin.It's unashamedly commercial, produced by that purveyor of OTT
entertainment values, Jerry Bruckheimer, it was to be expected, but few
blockbusting movies of the new age can lay claim to being such an out
and out reason for having fun, and this this is the reason why Pirates
has few peers, it knows its reason for being, it's not taking itself
seriously, the audience is not being hoodwinked in any way, it is
having fun because so is the film and so is crucially, its impressive
cast. Johnny Depp as Sparrow is having the time of his life, basing the
character around the dubious mannerisms of Rolling Stone icon, Keith
Richards, it works to its highest potential and Depp is simply
wonderful in the role. Keira Knightley {perfectly cast}, Orlando Bloom,
Geoffrey Rush, Jack Davenport, Jonathan Pryce and Mackenzie Crook all
do what was asked, which is essentially say your lines right and have a
blast with it, it really is that sort of picture.The subsequent sequels would forget what made this first offering so
enjoyable, foregoing the outrageous sense of fun for a dark sheen and
character development. That is a shame, but at the least we still have
this wonderful picture to go back to time and time again, to lift you
up when one is down or to keep one happy when one is already in that
happy place, The Curse Of The Black Pearl is a joy from start to
finish. 9/10

******
3 November 2008
10
*****Classic ****Excellent ***Good **Fair *Tragic Review:Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is a 10/10
swashbuckling, wind whirling and sword clanging action adventure film
that doesn't take itself too seriously. Johnny Depp is at a sheer peak
performance as the whizzy 'Captain' Jack Sparrow and one that got him
an Oscar nomination for best actor. Depp clearly steals the show and
brings down the house with an all amazing performance.It's story is a blessing for this certain genre and thank god Verbinski
did it right. He nails it to the point where you wouldn't presume it's
a normal story but still treats it in that fashion.But it's the knife-sharp dialogue that plays the real part and Depp
unsurprisingly pulls it to the top (Savvey?)Verdict:Pirates of the Carribena: the Curse of the Black Pearl is a pure
adventure to watch. Depp at his all time best, unforgettable dialogue
and Keira Knightley in a corset. How could you go wrong?*****Classic

******
2 October 2008
9
I didn't expect much from a movie that was made after an amusement park
ride, but I must say I was more than pleasantly surprised. This is one
of my favorite movies. It has everything. A great cast, a great story,
great action, and wonderful visuals. You'll believe you are back in
time and living with cutthroats. But wait there's more, you also have a
supernatural element that makes this like Lord of the Rings meets Black
Beard the pirate. The whole idea seems ridiculous, but with Johnny Depp
as CAPTIAN Jack Sparrow, he makes it all work. Too be fare Orlando
Bloom as Will Turner is the actual hero of the story, but without a
doubt Depp is the star. The movie would not work without him at such a
great level. Then there is Keira Knightley as Elizabeth Swann, who is
as lovely as she is adventrous. Knightley really is a great actress and
her character is essential to the story so she isn't just another
pretty girl in an action movie, though undoubtedly she is absolutely
beautiful. I won't go into the story since others here have already,
but I will say that if you love pirate movies or action movies or
comedies or romance or horror movies, this movie has it all and it's
all top notch. This is a must see and one of the best in the decade it
was made.

******
28 September 2008
9
When it comes to adventure-type movies, Pirates of the Caribbean takes
the cake. With its quirky characters, great storyline, and realistic
setting, it's no wonder why it spawned a sequel. So what's this movie
about? A pirate, Jack Sparrow, is on an adventure to take back his ship
(The Black Pearl) after his nemesis Captain Barbossa stole it from him.
Barbossa also kidnaps a woman named Elizabeth. Turns out, Elizabeth has
a coin that Barbossa and his crew are after. Meanwhile, a man named
Will Turner joins Jack in an attempt to get Elizabeth back home safely.
I truly can't think of anything negative about this film (hence the 5
star rating). The first thing I have to point out in terms of what's to
like about Pirates of the Caribbean is the actors/characters. I truly
feel that each and every actor that was cast in this film was made for
the roles they were cast for. From Elizabeth's innocent yet strong
personality, to Will's tough yet lovable side, and to Jack's overall
silliness, everyone will find something they like about the characters.
When it comes to pirate movies, there's only so much you can do with a
storyline. So, of course, this movie's storyline has to have something
dealing with bad pirates as well as treasure. Although the storyline
may seem typical, there's enough twists and turns to keep you watching.
Aiding the twists are a generous amount of jokes and humor to keep the
whole family entertained. Additionally, the setting and props and
costumes are incredibly realistic. So much so that I *wish* I could be
there with them. After you watch Pirates of the Caribbean-The Curse of
the Black Pearl, you'll be rearing and ready to watch the sequel. I
just can't get enough of this movie.

******
21 June 2008
8
My Take: A charismatic and hilarious performance by Johnny Depp is the
icing of the cake in this terrific, if somewhat overrated, summer
flick.After all the talks, the publicity and all else in its hype, PIRATES OF
THE CARIBBEAN premiered in theaters during its release date with a
bang. This is a summer movie with a hype that reaches the moon, but
this one actually lives up to it. PIRATES is very long, too long in
fact even for a big-budget event film, but for half of its running
time, PIRATES is a good ride.Special effects and action scenes galore, the real treat is Johnny
Depp, delightful as the drunkenly quire Captain Jack Sparrow, a pirate
who lost his ship, the Black Pearl, to another captain (Geoffrey Rush),
who is also curse with eternal damnation when they are damned to walk
the earth as undead seafarers. After the crew of the Black Pearl invade
the peaceful town of Port Royale and kidnaps the Governor's Daughter
Elizabeth Swann (Kiera Knightley), childhood friend Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) aids the help of Sparrow to find her and get her back.
Swashbuckling action and a lot of special effects ensues.In fact, so much of these action and effects occupy the entire picture,
yet the film does what every summer movie does: more. So much more of
the stuff that already is plenty in this film gives us too much of the
bargain. Special effects after special effects do get tedious after a
while. Still, for a summer movie, PIRATES kept its promise, and, here's
the question: Did it live up to the hype? Sure it did. Although
imperfect, legions of fans will not be disappointed. Rating: **** out of 5.

******
23 September 2007
7
Jack Sparrow is a pirate without ship, the evil Captain Barbosa has
stolen the Black Pearl (jack's ship) and he wants to recover it. Qill
Turner is a young smith that is in love to Elisabeth Swann, the noble
of the island. When she is kidnapped by Barbosa, he and Sparrow will
work together (more or less) to defeat the evil Barbosa. This is the
curious thing that surprised everybody, it has anything new, special
effects are nowadays typical, it should be one senseless unknown film,
but it had a great success. Why? Depp's acting as Jack Sparrow was just
superb (nomination to Oscar included), he is able to make o charismatic
character that all becomes easy when he is by there. Showing us one of
the best character presentation in the last years, he is the one who
really supports the movie. Rest of characters are correct and
charismatic, but it is not SO impressive, this is the main thing of the
movie, all actors make a good and catching part. In addition, the
special effects are fabulous (as expected in such a expensive-to-make
film), it is filled with stupid funny jokes (which you laugh because
they are them) and a very confusing plot (who is friend of who??), but
the result is funny and absolutely enjoyable.

******
21 September 2007
10
My all-time favorites. One of the best. I loved this movie. I enjoyed
this movie. Very funny. Very entertaining. Awesome movie. Johnny as Jac
Sparrow, Oh! my, can I just say wow. He was incredible. All the
characters did very well. The story was awesome. The dialogs suited
very well. The introduction of Jack Sparrow was awesome. The life of
pirates was shown and explained very well. I won't go further into the
story as it would spoil everything. A movie worth watching. A fun-thrilled adventure. Awesome special effects. Awesome music score.
Watch this movie. You'll enjoy it. Buy this DVD. It's worth the money.
It's worth the time.

******
30 July 2007
10
And he has a great entrance. A really great one, if you haven't seen it
yet, go watch it! Even if it's only the first scene with Johnny Depp as
Cpt. Jack Sparrow! While many/some have dismissed Johnnys performance
here as being gay, I do think his intentions were others! That's not
only because he himself said so in an interview (his inspiration being
Keith Richards as he said), but also because I saw him as crazy, but
genius guy, who was different.But kudos have also to go out to Gore Verbinsky. First of all, for
resurrecting the pirate movie "genre" (maybe genre is not the right
word, but you get what I mean) and also for sticking to Johnnys
decision to play Sparrow the way he did! It's know that the studio
didn't want Johnny to play it like that. They were afraid, that
Johnny's performance would destroy it at the box office ... quite the
opposite happened! Captain Jack Sparrow is the one who saved this thing
from drowning (excuse the pun)! If you haven't watched it yet, go out
and see it now! A great adventure with a crazy/great guy in the middle
of it!

******
16 July 2007
10
The summer of 2003 had this film which came out of nowhere it seemed
and took the box office by storm. Nobody gave a film about a Disney
ride much of a chance. But through the force of a great story and even
better performances, we got a very pleasant surprise.Nothing more to say about Depp that hasn't already been said. He is the
force of the film. His "Jack" pushes the film from being a really nice
ride to being a great adventure of a film. But praise doesn't end
there, Rush, Bloom, Knightly, Davenport and the rest of the supporting
cast are absolutely great. The other performances can be lost in the
tour-DE-force that Johnny gives with "Jack", but the other players
brought their "A" game as well.The effects are fantastic here as is the score. Every element of this
film belied the perception that came from the industry and fans waiting
on it alike. Who would have known that a film based on a ride would be
this good? Verbenski deserves a lot of credit for taking this film
serious and not giving audiences what the protractors and doom sayers
said would be delivered. Instead he brought back the pirate movie in a
huge way. One of the best surprises in a long time.

******
8 July 2007
10
This is one of the best Disney live movies I have seen in years. Kiera
Knightly and Orlando Bloom are a match made in heaven. The two them are perfectly matched, Orlando portraying a dorkish
character with pirate in his blood, carried off this in a magnificent
manner.Kiera's portrayal of a well-bred governor's daughter surely carried off
being a pirate as well.They seemed to have known each other in a previous life able to perform
perfectly and on time. They each held their own beside the veterans
such as Johnny Depp and the rest of the star clad cast.Bravo to each of the new actors, Kiera and Orlando.

******
6 July 2007
10
Now let me get this straight I do not particularly like Pirate movies
and I despise most Pirate movies but this movie was really something.
It was sure funny thats for sure, it had good action and a sweet plot
to match but the thing that made the movie great for me was Johny Depp
I have never seen a funnier pirate then Captain Jack Sparrow he made
the movie about twice as good. Orlando Bloom and Keira Knightley also
did pretty well and the movie also had sweet special effects which is
needed in Pirate movies. Overall I rate this movie high and it has
become my favourite pirate movie ever so I rate this movie really
solidly at a 98% because of none other then Johnny Depp. So go Pirates.

******
3 June 2007
8
Pirates Of The Caribbean: Curse Of The Black Pearl is without a doubt
one of the most fun rides to come along in quite some time. Starting
from the Disney ride, the filmmakers have fashioned a good old
fashioned pirate romp that combines action, adventure and comedy almost
perfectly. Johnny Depp stars as Captain Jack Sparrow, a flamboyant
pirate searching for the ship that was stolen out from under him when
his crew mutinied. First off, this film belongs to Depp. His
performance is s near perfect that it is almost divine. He brings such
a character to Sparrow that you can't help but love him even though he
is a pirate. Starring as the new captain of the titular pirate ship is
Geoffrey Rush as Barbossa. He is truly the evil pirate that you love to
hate and if anyone comes close to Depp's performance it is Rush.
Rounding out the main cast are Orlando Bloom as Will Turner and Keira
Knightley as Elizabeth Swann. While they try, they are just not in the
same league as their more esteemed co-stars. Still, Pirates is good fun
and a throwback to the old days of cinema. Enjoy!

******
29 May 2007
8
I must say that, personally, The Haunted Mansion has always been my
favorite Disney ride and I was quite excited when they announced the
making of a film based on it. Sadly, instead of a spooky good time we
got an effects and cliché-ridden comedy that is only good to watch when
there's nothing else good on. After the failures of both "Country
Bears" and "The Haunted Mansion" at the box office, it seemed only
natural that the announcement of a film based on the popular Pirates of
the Caribbean ride be met with a lot of negative feedback. But instead
of being just another waste of our precious time, this 2 hour +
adventure turned out to be a slam dunk.Pros: Spirited performances from all involved, especially Johnny Depp
who earned an Academy Award nomination. Aside from a few slow spots,
the film moves along nicely. A great, pulse-pounding score. A great
sense of humor. Top-notch special and visual effects. Breathtaking
scenery. Some very exciting and well-choreographed action and sword
fighting sequences. Excellent costume and production design. A few good
nods to the ride.Cons: The pace does drag in a few spots. It's also a tad overlong and
could have been trimmed down a little. If you've seen a lot of pirate
movies before this one you might not find a lot of new things, but
don't let that ruin the experience because a lack of originality isn't
always such a negative thing.Final thoughts: As I said before not everyone was thrilled with the
project happening, but despite that it went on to make hundreds of
millions of dollars worldwide and has spawned two sequels and tons of
merchandise. Now if that's not a success, then I don't know what is.My rating: 4/5

******
26 May 2007
8
This film, which was based on a popular theme-park ride at Disneyland,
came out about four years ago now and was really not expected to do
very well. However it managed to become one of the major box-office
hits of 2003.Set, presumably sometime in the 18th Century, the film depicts the
Caribbean port town of Port Royal attacked by pirates, who kidnap the
daughter (Keira Knightley) of the town's governor. Of course, the local
apprentice blacksmith (Orlando Bloom) determines to save her with the
help of flamboyant pirate Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp).The film mixes action, adventure and fantasy into a very entertaining
whole. The film is very well-made with some superb special effects and
production design, it's also fairly well-acted especially Johnny Depp
successfully blending ridiculousness and heroism as Captain Jack
Sparrow. it manages to balance the humour and action pretty well, for
the most part, although the film is at times overlong.

******
19 April 2007
10
This movie is the best. If you like boring pointless movies this is not
the movie for you. Curse of the black pearl is an awesome film full of
humor, the acting is incredibly well done and the cgi for the moonlight
effect is just spectacular. Johnny Depp really gets into the character
of Jack Sparrow, to his rocking boat walk to his slurring speech, I
can't imagine Jack Sparrow any other way. The story is also very well
done, pirates cursed for an eternity unless they return all the coins
and blood of those who stole from the treasures of Cortez, and
ironically Jack was saved from this cruel unrelenting fate by being
betrayed and abandoned, and by killing bootstrap bill turner they got
rid of the coin and blood they so desperately needed. Overall this
movie is by far the best movie in modern times, filled with action,
comedy, suspense and enough twists to keep you entertained but not
enough to confuse you out of your mind, want to see a good movie, this
is it.

******
12 April 2007
8
Since Walt Disney's death,the Disney company has continued to produce
films that can be considered classic,but the majority of those films
are animated and you know what they are.As far as their live action
films,there has been a steady decline in quality over the last thirty
years.In Pirates of the Caribbean:The Curse of the Black Pearl,we have
what we can safely call a resounding comeback for the Disney company in
the live action department.it is a virtual retelling of a classic
Disney story,but it is nonetheless appealing.Johnny Depp exudes an
inescapable charm as Captain Jack Sparrow,and a lot has to do with him
shaping the character after a certain Rolling Stone band member.The
remaining cast,Keira Knightley (who is nothing short of lovely
here),Orlando Bloom,Geoffrey Rush,as well as the countless others play
off of Depp very well.The cast,the action,the humor,and overall
storytelling are outstanding.I would not recommend it for smaller
children,as it can be somewhat violent in places,but you and your older
children will have a good time with it.Walt Disney would be pleased.

******
13 March 2007
10
I absolutely am in love with Johnny Depp and this movie. This man is so
unbelievably HOT. I've seen so many of his movies and he is a brilliant
actor. The way he captures his character as a drunk pirate, a good guy
one moment bad guy the next, just amazes me. He is the ONLY person on
EARTH that could fit this role... he is perfect! OH, and did I mention
how incredibly gorgeous he is. WOW. I have been in love with him for SO
long, and he just keeps getting hotter as years pass. I can't get
enough of Pirates one and two. I have both movies on my iPod and I
watch them constantly. I know everything there is to know about these
two movies. Go ahead, ask me anything. I cannot wait until the next one
comes out, it is going to be so incredibly amazing. I can't express my
love enough. The writers did and excellent job (I love Disney movies)
and the actors did just as good (especially Johnny). I love it! It is
so sexy the way he talks. I love it when he says "Welcome to the
Caribbean love." Ohh la la! His body movements and facial expressions
are picture perfect and no one could have done it better. I think I am
head over heels in love. Every girl is in love with some actor and
Johnny is the one for me. And he is just SO SO SO SO INCREDIBLE Forever
and ever BABE

******
18 February 2007
10
I think that POTC is a very good movie if you are looking for a good
laugh. The antics of Captain Jack Sparrow are hilarious, as are the
antics of the two "dumb" pirates. The costumes are fantastic, as are
the sets. The plot may be a little campy, but it adds to the fun. A
great movie to see with kids, the MPAA rating is a bit higher than it
probably should be. This is one of my favorite Disney movies of all
time, and the writers did an excellent job keeping the plot moving
along. The movie is quite long, but it flies by. After watching this, I
couldn't' wait to enter the world of Jack Sparrow and Elizabeth Swann
once more. There are also many inside jokes from the Disney World
attraction present.

******
12 February 2007
10
This has to be one of the best movies Johhny Depp has been in, showing
a new side of himself as a drunken, self centered, and very determined
pirate. He, Keira Knightly, and Orlando Bloom travel all over the
Caribbean. Though Orlando Bloom never shows any emotions (as usual),
this is still an incredible movies that you'll want to watch again and
again. The action and suspense never stops, with Keira Knightly's
screaming. This Disney movie is the first to be rated PG-13, so it's
got to good, and there's no singing in weird dances involved in this
Disney classic. Just drinking, guns firing, swearing, and my personal
favorite, suffication by corset

******
31 December 2006
10
This is one of my favorite movies. It mostly centers around 'Captain'
Jack Sparrow, who is obsessed with rum and is as crazy as they come. He
also has his good and bad parts (like a Han Solo from an alternate
dimension :-D), courageous and selfless blacksmith Will Turner, and
Elizabeth Swann, the beautiful daughter of Governor Swann. Captain
Barbossa was an excellent villain, the kind of person you love to hate.
Pintel and Ragetti also added a fair share of comedy relief to the
movie, especially Ragetti. I recommend it to anyone who enjoys pirate
movies. Believe me, you won't be disappointed. Also, be sure to stick
around after the end credits for an additional scene.

******
29 December 2006
10
This is an excellent movie, I especially like all of the action and
adventure! All of the actors and actresses are amazing! They really got
into their acting and tried really hard, and it definitely shows! After
I saw this movie I have been addicted to the Pirates of the Caribbean
movie series! There are a lot of sword fights and if you totally and
completely hate action and or adventure please don't see this movie,
but if you like action and adventure even the tiniest bit, you will
love this movie! After I saw this movie I wanted to see the second so
badly! This is a totally stupendous movie, I most definitely want you
to see this as soon as possible!!

******
28 December 2006
10
I've seen it in the premier, and i love it! Im fascinated about
pirates.. not because of these movies and when 1º Pirates of the
Caribbean came out.. i was so happy.. out of control xD And then the
2º! They became my reason of living! xD Well.. i know it sounds crazy..
but its the truth :X Lol I know that some people doesn't like even a
bit of both films, but what a shame.. xD I love them! :X The other day
i pick up my newspaper and i've read that it is gonna be a 4º movie! :O
Is it true?! It doesn't make any sense.. but one more Pirates movie is
never too much! :XP.S.: Sorry my English ^^'

******
27 December 2006
10
I have to admit, I was hesitant to see this movie because the idea
sounded a bit childish, but upon seeing the commercials, I was hooked,
and even taped one during a show just because it looked interesting to
me. I waited until the movie was released on DVD before watching it and
I sorely regret it!! After viewing ten minutes of the film I was hooked
and rented the movie that very night. I then went on to watching it
again and again, even renting the movie a second time just so I could
watch it more.Johnny Depp is brilliant as daft Captain Jack. It is obvious that he
truly enjoyed the character. His acting steals the show, even though
the film is based around Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) and Will
Turner (Orlando Bloom). Geoffrey Rush is equally hilarious and evil as
the undead Barbossa. Kevin McNally is thoroughly enjoyable as the older
salt Joshamee Gibbs; the superstitious, story-telling pirate that Jack
Sparrow visits in Tortuga.I truly believe anyone with a creative imagination will have a lot of
fun with this movie. It takes you out of reality and throws you into a
thrilling dreamworld with pirates, sea-faring, a love story, and
hilarity.

******
23 December 2006
10
Loved the film - i would like to know when the first Johnny Depp /
Orlando Bloom Pirates film was shown on small screen i.e. TV , as I
have a friend who disputes my memory . I distinctly remember a Pirates
film shown on TV that starred Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom , and I
really enjoyed it but can not quite remember the title but thought it
was part of the Pirates of the Caribbean { not just an excerpt a full
length film ). Am I going off my rocker or did I actually see it , not
that I want to prove anyone wrong . I love Johnny Depp as an actor and
hope that he has many more films.Thanks Lets have more like this ! Regards Rob Mitchell.

******
10 December 2006
10
This was an excellent film Johnny Depp takes the lead in i think one of
the best films of the 21st century.Its unique and effectively draws the
viewer into the film. The drunken pirate Jack sparrow played by Johnny
Depp is exciting to watch and you feel at ease from the outset of the
film. I also think that the sexy Kiera Knightley was fantastic and
played a very convincing role as Elizabeth Swann.Captain Jack Sparrow's idyllic pirate life capsized after his former
first mate, the wily Captain Barbossa mutinied and commandeered Jack's
ship, the Black Pearl and Captain Jack will do anything to get it back.I've always believed that top actors make top films and this film
reinforces this point.Fantastic deserves nothing lower than 10/10. Exceptional cast,
exceptional film.

******
4 December 2006
10
One of the best pirate films I've ever seen,it has everything in it
from damsel in distress,swashbuckling sword fight scenes,a ghost ship
maimed by a skeleton crew{now thats what i call a skeleton
staff}parrots and The Royal Navy in hot pursuit,now what more could you
ask for in a pirate movie.Johnny Depp gives a really good performance
as Captain Jack Sparrow,who captained the ship The Black Pearl,only to
have it stolen from him and left marooned on a Caribbean Island by
Captain Barbosa,played by Geoffrey Rush.Barbosa and his crew are under
a curse and they are part of the undead the only way the curse can be
lifted is if they have the blood of Will Turner{Orlando Bloom}but by
mistake they kidnap Elizabeth Swann{Kiera Knightly}believing she is a
Turner.Jack Sparrow wants to recapture his ship and with the help of
Will Turner who wants to rescue Elizabeth,they set out to find
them.This film has many action scenes and some great special
effects,especially when the skeleton crew are fighting the navy.What i
also found really good was the way most of the lead actors camped up
their performances,making it really funny especially Johhny Depp and
Jack Davenport.But i think for me its Geoffrey Rush who steals most
scenes,as the unscrupulous Captain Barbosa.

******
22 November 2006
10
When my family first watched Pirates of the Caribbean at the theater,
we weren't expecting anything great. In fact, we fervently believed
that it would be terrible. The commercial looked awful and the fact
that it was modeled after a Disney THEME PARK RIDE almost guaranteed a
flop. Boy were we wrong.*SMALL SPOILERS AHEAD, BUT NOTHING BIG*Pirates of the Caribbean is an incredible movie and an amazing
achievement in cinema work. It combines the best of every genre and has
something for everybody. I laughed my butt of when I watched this movie
during its many comedic scenes, and I nearly screamed during the
skeletal attack on the British ship. The action sequences are many and
excellent, such as the thrilling sword fight between Bloom and Depp and
the sea battle between the Black Pearl and the Interceptor. The love
affair between Bloom and Nightly wasn't the movie's best part, but it
won't make you cringe like Attack of the Clones' love scenes.Special effects wise, POTC is very good. The skeletons are quite
disturbing and the battle scenes are extremely well done. POTC doesn't
set any standard for movies, but it still looks excellent.The cast is absolutely stellar. Bloom and Nightly do very admirably and
could easily be related to. The support actors are great, particularly
the stuck-up British commodore and captain Barbossa. But Depp really
makes this movie shine. He delivers an Oscar-worthy performance as
captain Jack Sparrow, a hilarious, daring and enigmatic figure with a
strangely feminine attitude. The fact that he didn't win an Oscar for
this one is a sure sign of the coming Armageddon.Bottom line, Pirates of the Caribbean is one of the best movies in
history. It will blow you out of your seat and make you laugh until you
throw up and is great for the whole family.15 out of 10.

******
19 November 2006
9
I watch this film without knowing anything about it, except that my
brother said it's some sort of historical fantasy about pirates: And
I'm pleasantly surprised. I fell in love with the Jack Sparrow
character right away at the start even though I didn't know yet if he's
a baddie or not.Another surprise is the minimal amount of blood and gory (considering
this is a pirates movie), and instead I get plenty of laughs. I only
like funny movies only when the actors look and talk seriously but
actually acting funny (do you get what I mean?), and this is that kind
of movie.The story have plenty of twists so sitting for more than 2 hours didn't
bother me at all.

******
17 November 2006
10
This movie flat out rocks. It has all the elements of a great
blockbuster. This is what a summer movie is supposed to be about. Tons
of comedy, action, and enough light-hearted fun. Johnny Depp is
unforgettable as strange Jack Sparrow. Jack Sparrow has got to be one
of the best and most original characters ever created. Geoffrey Rush is
good bringing teeth-gnashing to an utmost evil yet playful pirate.
Having Depp and Rush on the screen provides most of the films energy,
which is more than enough. Orlando Bloom is fine in a light part, and
Keira Knightley just plain enjoys herself as Elizabeth. The
cinematography and special effects are remarkable. They are all
convincing and entertaining. When matched with Klaus Badelts score
scenes like the first time we see the sailors in full skeletal display
take on an eerily lifelike quality thats unlike anything I have ever
seen before. Just go out and get it. Turn your brain off for two and
half hours and just enjoy the ride.

******
15 November 2006
9
this is definitely one of the best action movie i've ever seen. Not
only that it is action-packed, it is also very funny and light in
various ways, thanks to the good performance by actor johnny Depp,
whose role is funny, light and courageous. The performances of the
other main actors are also admirable. I would also have to say that the
roles of the villains are also amazing, with spectacular make ups,
which creates good imageries of pirates. The visual and special effects
throughout the entire movie are also great. I would also have to say
that the choice of the settings are also well done; which brings up the
genre.The soundtrack throughout the film are also cleverly composed. In
my view this original pirates of the Caribbean is the best action movie
yet .

******
5 November 2006
10
This film is absolutely breathtaking! Not only is it original, it
combines a mixture of great comedy, thrills, and action. The sword
fighting sequences were great and I loved the special effects. You can
not hate this movie. There is nothing to hate. Johnny Depp was a comic
genius in this, he got a bunch of good humor in there and Kiera
Knightly was great! I adored the character Jack Sparrow and it also
contained lots of other unforgettable characters. I found it hard to
believe that beautiful Kiera Knightly was only 17 while filming the
movie! It was absolutely original. I hate unoriginal movies especially
clichéd ones. This is neither unoriginal or clichéd. It is perfect and
I love the director and the writer of this movie. Cudos to you, the
cast,the crew, the writers, the director and producer, yes you Jerry
Bruckheimer! Bravo! You guys make an excellent team!

******
5 November 2006
8
The first time that they ever made a great pirate that they made in
this century, Pirates of the Caribbean. This was as good as Lords of
the Rings, and had many special effects like the Lord of the Rings.
Gore Virbinski was very lucky to have a great cast and crew to help him
on this great pirate movie.It tells the story of a bunch of pirates who
stole treasure and they didn't know that it was cursed.So because of
this curse, every day for their rest of their lives they can't digest
of eat/drinks what they want, and at night they become skeletons.Now
they rome the earth to get all the treasure and get the blood of Will
Turner and thats when we met the cast that made this film great.

******
30 October 2006
10
This is a very fun and high-spirited story. It just may be better than
next one, Pirates of the Caribbean: The Deadman's Chest.Captain Jack Sparrow, played by Johnny Depp, is a pirates. He wants his
ship, the Black Pearl but now he is arrested. Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush)
is a captain of the Black Pearl now. Captain Barbossa kidnaps
Elizabeth(Keira Knightley) because solving ancient curse needs for her.
Her friend Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) worries and wants to help her,
he goes sea and search for her with Jack.Through the adventure, we may be excited and laugh about their bravery,
friendship and love.

******
29 October 2006
8
This movie is sure to astonish you. It is has so well devolped
charactercs, breath taking scenery, and a plot line leaving you
ictching for more. The actors bring this movie to life. It is fun for
the young and the old. It will lead young minds to adventure ,and
dreamers to far away places filled with pirates ,and compasses that
don't point north. It is so intruding you will want to watch it over
and over again. It is a timeless classic for the family even if it
still has those fun pirates myths. Even with those myths it still
brings in new fantasist pirate styles. That are sure to kept you
laughing for quite some time. This is the kind of film we need more of
today.

******
29 October 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse Of The Black Pearl is one of the
best motion pictures I have seen. Every single section and production
team of this film excels as the film is brought together.This film is perfect when showing how diverse a role Depp can play.
With the amazing accent and crazy actions it truly does show his
imagination and how much effort he can put into a role.Also, the supporting actors, Kiera Knigtley, Orlando Bloom and Geoffry
Rush make this film excel in its genre. With the perfect amount of
action, comedy and romance - perfect camera angles, stunts and special
effects this certainly is Gore Verbinski at his best.

******
18 October 2006
10
Where to start? How to say something not already said? Damn convention.Pirates is a classic swashbuckling film. The plot is a little
contrived, based as it is on the ride of the same name at DisneyLand.
That said it is thoroughly entertaining. Johnny Depp is unsurpassable
as Captain Jack Sparrow and basically makes the film.The storyline is essentially a rite of passage for all three main
characters - Sparrow, Will Turner (Olrando Bloom) and Elizabeth Swann
(Keira Knightly), who work their way to a secret island burgeoning with
treasure to break an Inca curse inflicted when the crew of the Black
Pearl took Inca gold and spent it for their pleasure. After collecting
all but one piece the crew of the Black Swan encounter Miss Swann who
holds the remaining piece.After all sorts of complications the inevitable conclusion occurs with
the curse broken and a number of potential plot lines left open for a
sequel.This film stands on its own as a classic, any sequel will have a lot to
stand up to.

******
16 October 2006
8
"Pirates Of The Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl" is one of the
best "light entertainment" movies I have ever seen. It is entertaining
and that's its sole aim. It is funny and easily keeps you interested
and despite its long runtime (more than 2 hours) it is never boring."Pirates of the Caribbean" is a very ironic movie which uses almost
every pirate cliché there is. It parodies action movies with great
self-mockery. Some lines and scenes are hilarious and the plot is
creative. A very well written adventure, with twists and turns, and
with memorable lines and characters. (love the theme music) I loved the character of Captain Jack Sparrow played by Johnny Depp who
gives a brilliant performance. Keira Knightley also does a fine job.
However, I did not like Will Turner, the character played by Orlando
Bloom. I'm not sure if it is Bloom's performance and the way he says
his lines that annoys me or if it is the lines themselves that do. He
has some really cheesy lines.Funny and entertaining comedy/adventure movie. Honestly! **** 8.0/10 ****

******
5 October 2006
9
*SPOILERS Of The Black Pearl* I had heard of POTC: Curse Of The Black Pearl when it first came out,
but it sounded cheesy, and I never liked pirate movies, so I gave it a
miss.But 3 years later, after having heard everybody singing its praises and
taking the chance as it was going to be aired on TV, I recorded it, and
watched it.I had to rethink my opinion of the movie, since I found it great.The story? The story is based on these Pirates who happen to be cursed
because they robbed a treasure which had been cursed by Maya Gods, and
they want to get rid of the curse.To do that they need the blood of a pirate, not just any pirate but the
son of legendary pirate Bill Turner (who Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey
Rush) killed because he had opposed to Barbossa's mutiny from Captain
Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), right before finding out they needed his
blood to get rid of the curse) - William Turner (Orlando Bloom).Mistaken for Bill Turner's child the pirates capture Elizabeth (Keira
Knightley), the daughter of the Governor, who said her surname was
Turner because she was in love with young Will, and take her hostage,
while William teams up with a Rogue pirate, who is none other than Jack
Sparrow, who is on a streak for revenge against Barbossa (can you blame
him?). In the meanwhile they are all being chased by the British fleet.Will the curse be broken? Will Jack Sparrow manage to get back his
ship, the 'Black Pearl'? Will Elizabeth and Will get together? All I
can say is that great fun will be had by all.Pirates Of The Caribbean: Curse Of The Black Pearl: 9/10.

******
30 August 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, includes a
definite top-notch, all-star, brilliant, and outstanding cast that
includes Johnny Depp (Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Secret
Window), Orlando Bloom (The Lord of the Rings trilogy), and Keira
Knightley (The Jacket, Domino), and Geoffery Rush (Finding Nemo,
Munich), one of the best casts I have seen, well, ever.The acting was pitch-perfect in this film. In fact, the acting was so
good, it couldn't get any better! The special effects were spectacular.
The make-up was awesome. The editing, the music, the story, everything
was just fantastic! Gore Verbinski and Jerry Bruckheimer definitely did
a good job on producing this film! Not only was this movie totally
filled with action, but there was a lot of humor in it, too. Johnny
Depp did a great job with the acting and the funny humor and the
hilarious disgusted or happy facial features. You'll have to see the
film to get what I mean with the whole facial feature thing.Anyway, I recommend not letting any child under the age of 8 to see
this film. There are a lot of scary images of rotting flesh and undead
corpses.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl definitely
deserves a 10 out of 10 starts. Even better.Original MPAA rating: PG-13: Action/Adventure ViolenceMy MPAA rating: PG-13: Some Intense Sequences of Action/Adventure
ViolenceMy Canadian Rating: 14A: Violence

******
25 August 2006
9
SPOILERSThis is a great swashbuckling type of film. It has great sword fights
and Johnny Depp's acting is great. It is just too bad he didn't win the
Oscar. It is about a group of cursed pirates trying to get the last
piece of Aztec Gold to become human. The special effects and makeup are
great. The music is great. This movie is a Disney film but that doesn't
mean it is great for all ages. There is blood and language. The cursed
pirates are kind of scary in the moonlight. Also, stick around after
the credits that give a big clue for Dead Man's Chest. Overall, this is
a great swashbuckling film.9/10 Recommended films: The Princess Bride

******
23 August 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl, is one of the
action and adventure films I ever saw. Orlando Bloom's performance as
Will Turner is great, and Johnny Depp's character Jack Sparrow is
brilliance. This film is like taken over by Johnny Depp and his
character Jack Sparrow. He'll make you laugh with his hilarious, NOT
Mediocre, jokes. He'll take adventure to the next level. This film
should be seen with the family unless you don't want your children to
see scary, frightening moments in the film. This film is still one of
the most classical Disney films since "Marry Poppins", "Peter Pan",
"Beauty and the Beast", and "Snow White". This film will make you laugh
and make you guess what's going to jump out of the screen.

******
16 August 2006
9
One word: great. Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl is
the best Disney film I have ever seen.The story was somewhat complex and contained less action than I had
hoped for, but turned out to still be good. Johnny Depp played the
fantastic Jack Sparrow (that's Captain Jack Sparrow!)a pirate who loves
his ship and his rum! With the help of Will Turner (Orlando Bloom), he
must fight captain Barbossa, the owner of his ship, and save Elizabeth
Swann from his cursed hands! The movie is a little bit scary for
children, but it contains great humor, great action and a great story.
Disney has finally proved that it can create an amazing film!

******
12 August 2006
10
This is masterpiece. Jonny Depp is just the best pirate there could
have been. He is witty, slightly charming and a ferocious sword
fighter. This is a film for all ages and all ages would enjoy it! It
has the lot: Sword fights, an evil pirate captain, treasure and a
terrible curse. Orlando Bloom is a good choice for a shy, handsome,
young blacksmith, who falls for the governor's beautiful daughter
(Keria Knightly), who is eyed by the more respected Comodor Norrington
(Jack Davenport). This is ideal for family entertainment. A funny,
exiting and enjoyable film10 out of 10

******
8 August 2006
10
I am absolutely in love with this movie!!! I love everything about
it!!! Before I first watched it, I was skeptical. I thought, 'What kind
of a movie is this?' I originally thought it was going to be the kind
of movie that Disney intended it to be. You know with all the
swashbuckling pirates and nonsense like that. But oh boy was I wrong.
When I first watched it, I immediately fell in love with it! I loved
Johnny Depp as *Captain* Jack Sparrow even thought at that time, I was
in love with Orlando Bloom! I instantly became obsessed with that movie
and everything about it! And now, a few years later, I am still
completely obsessed with it, but I have also picked up an obsession
with the ever-so-amazing, Johnny Depp. Now that the second movie has
come out, I am going to see it as many times as possible. I am
absolutely amazed by all of the sword fights in those movies and also
how amazingly believable Johnny Depp is as Captain Jack. I found it
remarkable that he pretty much created that character! This movie is so
amazing!! So amazing, that, in fact, I watch it every single day! I am
now in love with Pirates II! And i'm pretty sure that when the 3rd
movie comes out in summer '07, that I will be completely obsessed with
it too!!!

******
7 August 2006
10
The movie was great. My favorite characters in order are....Will,
Elizibeth, and then Jack. I loved Will he was really cute and nice as
well as a little funny(Orlando Boom),Jack was really funny and gross
but still.....weird(Johny Deep),and Elizibeth was great and sweet and
gorgeous yet very proper(Kira Knightly). I really liked the part where
Will got hit on the head by the pirate with the glass. The whole movie
was really good. I cant wait to see the second. I think Will will come
out of his shell a little bit, Jack will get funnier, and Elizibeth
will get taught sword fitting. I just hope they make the movie series
all the way up to 7, Mab even more than that. I'm truly it's biggest
fan.

******
4 August 2006
8
Pirates of the Caribbean tells the story of a group of cursed pirates
who kidnap the governor's daughter and take her aboard a ship called
The Black Pearl. The woman's young suitor, Will Turner, teams up with
the flamboyant Captain Jack Sparrow, the rightful owner of the Black
Pearl so they can both retrieve what is rightfully theirs. A journey
filled with action and adventure unfolds, and along with it, one of the
most entertaining films of 2003.What fascinates me the most about this movie is how great it is, and
how much of a success it is, and it's based off a ride at Disneyworld!
The first movie based off a Disney ride, The Tower of Terror, was a TV
movie with Steve Guttenberg. The three that followed, Mission to Mars,
The Country Bears, and The Haunted Mansion, were all flops. When I
heard about the Pirates of the Caribbean movie, I wasn't very excited.
After seeing it however, I was blown away. The movie is a visual
stunner. The special effects are awesome, and the set pieces are some
of the most amazing things I've seen on film. The dialogue is witty,
with a few jokes meant to go over the little ones' heads. Not only
that, but they actually managed to get a great story out of it.The acting is amazing. I was never a fan of Orlando Bloom, but he does
well in this movie. I really enjoyed Geoffry Rush as the evil Captain
Barbossa. As always, Johnny Depp proves with a knockout performance
that he can play any role he wants, however he wants, and it will be
great.Overall, this is an amazingly entertaining film, perfect for all ages.
I recommend it to everybody.8.5/10

******
4 August 2006
9
NO SPOILERS TO BLACK PEARL BUT DOES HAVE A SPOILER FOR DEAD MANS
CHEST!! Read if your bored....long story To start of, i don't start my
own threads so i hope this is the right thing...haha well anyways, i'd
like to share a (what i find to be a very funny story) of what me and a
friend and my brother did in celebration to Dead mans Chest. It was
about a week before July 7th, i suppose and we were all very excited
and wanted to do something to celebrate, but as we were camping there
wasn't much to do. So, what we did do, was pulled up a long log that
was fairly thick and named it the Black Pearl. From there, we sat on
the log (in the water) and paddled it out for almost 1Km. Soon it
became dark and freezing cold and we weren't thinking straight.As we
realized we could die (we were sooo tired and cold) we began waving at
speedboats that passed. Finally, after an hour and half, a boat picked
us up. And so, yes it really happened, i abandoned the Black Pearl just
like Jack meant to do. I almost cried. It was very funny though. So
yeah, my dad gave us hell when we got back, but it was a good laugh and
we gave Pirates of the Caribbean:Dead Mans Chest a life threatening
expedition in its name. Hope you enjoyed.

******
4 August 2006
8
A movie based upon a Disney theme-park ride? The day I see that would
be well, now; Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl,
takes the world of swashbuckling pirates, from a theme park ride as I
have stated, wraps in some humour, and produces one of the best films
to grace the silver screen.Pirates of the Caribbean is about the rescue of Elizabeth Swann (Keira
Knightley), who was kidnapped by Barbosa, the captain of The Black
Pearl. To her rescue is Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) who recruits the
help of the legendary Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp). Together they
set after Barbosa and his crew only to discover that they are
undergoing a curse, which keeps them alive forever. From beginning to
end, Pirates of the Caribbean is a roller-coaster ride of laughter.
There is never a joke misplaced, and it sure makes one's views of the
world of pirates, far more entertaining. Fighting sequences never
detract from the comedy, as there are a couple instances of humour
within battle. This humour is brought to the table, most of the time,
by Depp's awesome portrayal of the ingenious, yet bizarre Jack Sparrow.
All other actors bring immense life to their characters, and what you
get is a film where acting is at its best. However, all is not well: the length of the film is questionable, as it
appears to drag on for far too long then it ought to. This is sadly due
to some bad editing. There are one or two scenes which weren't required
in the final cut, and almost every other scene is exposed for being a
few seconds too long. While some perfect editing wouldn't cut the
length of the film where one would notice, it would make for some
faster pacing. Perhaps the editing division was given a little more
freedom then expected, and is something which should be tightened up
upon in the future.Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is successful on
many levels that other films are not. It's not going to be the best
film of our time, but will surely go down as one of the most
entertaining. Comedy is carefully placed amongst times of story
development and times of battle. Many will easily be reciting their
favourite parts over and over again. However, due to some lazy editing,
the film seems too long, but it's not a problem to get yourself tied
into a knot over.

******
16 July 2006
8
It was great to see Jonny Deep back playing the sexy and mischievous
character of Jack Sparrow. I did think at times the humorous lines were
lacking a little enthusiasm when played, but Jonny still put them
across nicely with his expressions (with those wonderful mascaraed
eyes!) The introduction of sea-creatures as characters was a coup
d'etat in the real sense of adventure into the unknown. It reminded me
of my childhood stories when you longed for the unknown or unrealistic
things to happen and wanted to travel to those far off lands... (like
flying on the magic carpet with Aladdin) to the point where these
adventure nearly seemed real. Then the climax at the end when Geoffrey
Rush (Captain Barbossa) entered, you new your adventures were going to
continue into the next episode. An entertaining film for the whole
family...without the killings, swearing and overdone explosions !!

******
15 July 2006
8
It is so unfortunate this movie releases alongside LOTR. Otherwise it
was bound to snatch up many many awards. Black Pearl, is in all respect
a classic. A super super movie, coupled with Johnny Depp's massive
skills, it is just mind blowing. Its a pity that a actor of his caliber
hasn't got an Academy Award in his belt. I though expect that it wont
be far away.The movie brings up many legendary facts, which makes it so fascinating
to watch. Instances which speak of the secret Pirates Code known to
none but the pirates themselves, and curses that the pirates suffer
under the consequences of trying to steal a cursed treasure and lastly
treachery. The movie fills you end to end with excitement. Johnny Depp
is the evergreen Captain Jack Sparrow, probably the most unfortunate
pirate in history, because of his ill luck, with which he always ends
up loses his ship. But no one knew about his colorful past, when he was
the captain of the most feared pirate ships in history, The Black
Pearl. Even lesser knows of his consequences, where he was left
stranded on an unhabitated island with a pistol loaded with a single
bullet. He escaped by making ropes with his own hair, and he comes back
to take back his ship, the Black Pearl. And with some help from young
Will Turner and the aristocrat daughter of the ambassador Miss
Elizabeth Swann, he succeeds in killing Captain Barbossa, and evading
capture by the British army.The movie is extremely well done, with a superb plot, superb direction,
superb screen play, and some excellent on screen performances by
Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley, and Johnny Depp. He
really does deserve some special recognition. Klaus Badelt does a good
job with the music, and with some pretty neat visual effects. This is
just a movie which you cannot afford missing.8/10 !!!

******
12 July 2006
10
This is the Best movie I've ever seen! It has everything anyone could
ever ask for. No Blood and gore, A bit of Scaryness, Sword fights,
Romance and ORLANDO BLOOM AND JOHNNY DEPP!! You couldn't have asked for
a better movie in all of the world. This movie was made for the Duo, It
is the perfect Movie! I love Pirates!!(in at least this movie) It had
the perfect ending to, everything was finished, I can't reveal to much
or you will know what happens. EVERYONE DIES!! just kidding. But it
really is the best ever movie and you should really watch it. I have
seen it about a million times and I am able to quote along with this
movie, and still things surprise me. The smallest things are hidden in
there that you never see until the fifth or sixth time watching it.
You'll want to watch it again and again and again.

******
11 July 2006
10
OH MY GOD this film is amazing i think maybe even the best film that
has ever been made with a couple of other acceptions ! Orlando bloom
your an amazing actor also u r so hot its unbearable ! i think u will
always beat johnny when it comes 2 looks :D also Johnny's pretty fine 2
! Keira Knightley is so beautiful and an amazing actress. keep up the
good films y'all ! i have just recently seen the new pirates of the
Caribbean: dead man's chest and i think it is also a top film, it is
funnier i would say and I'm going to see it again ! i was so annoyed
though at the cliff hanger and the end ! WILL, ELIZABETH LOVES YOU NOT
JACK SPARROW ha ha. Cant wait 4 the next film i hope it is just as
good, i hope that more are made after to third pirates of the
Caribbean, with the same cast, Johnny, Orlando and Keira Fran xxx

******
8 July 2006
10
Yes, Johnny Depp was amazing in this movie. He totally deserved his
Acadamy Award nomination. But credit must also go to the two other
costars of this movie: Keira Knightly and Orlando Bloom. They also
delivered amazing performances, considering that Keira Knightly was
only 18 when she got the role and Orlando Bloom had just started his
movie career a few years previously. The three actors, as well as
pretty much every single supporting actor and actress, gave totally
believable performances.Also to be credited is the absolutely wonderful screenplay. It's full
of foreshadowing that really binds the movie together and helps every
part make perfect sense. True, there is the fact that the pirates under
the curse aren't supposed to feel anything, yet they still react to hot
coals being poured on their heads and stuff like that. But that can be
explained away with a little imagination, and it was pretty much the
only notable mistake in the movie. Otherwise, the script is very
effective and full of little subplots and extra tidbits that make a
movie so fun to watch a second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, etc. time.I am very sad that this movie didn't win any of its five Oscar
nominations. I didn't quite expect Johnny Depp to win, because his
nomination was so much of a surprise in itself. But the other
nominations (sound, sound editing, visual effects), and makeup were
totally deserved, and it makes me cry to realize that it didn't stand a
chance when going up against LOTR. If it had been another year, it
would have most certainly won at least a few of those awards. Oh well.In closing: this movie is bound to be a classic. It has romance,
adventure, scary moments, sweet moments, great visual effects, great
music, and great everything-else-that-makes-a-movie-fun-to-see. DON'T
MISS IT!!

******
7 July 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl is one of my
all-time favorite movies. I forgot how much I truly loved it until I
watched it again to prep myself for the sequel. Here are a few reasons
why it is a such a great movie: 1. Original - A lot should be said for original movies. One of the
things which makes this movie so great is that it is an original movie.
In this generation of re-makes, comics turned movies, real-life stories
turned movies, it is wonderful to be able to watch an original piece of
work which is different from others you may pull off the shelf.2. Good mix of genres - This movie is an action movie which uses
wonderful humor, and yet also has a sort of sci-fi feel to it, with
dramatic undertones. This is a difficult task for movies to accomplish,
and the people who worked on this movie did a wonderful job of it. I
think they used appropriate amounts of humor and drama mixed with a lot
of action to keep you involved at every emotional level.3. Great acting - Johnny Depp is my favorite actor. He has an amazing
ability to transform into his character. In this movie, he displays
this ability to us yet once again. It's like you forget Johnny Depp is
in the movie and you think that Capt. Jack Sparrow is a real
individual. Some people I have spoken with thought he was a little over
the top, but it was his extreme acting that helped make this movie such
a success. When you mix in the attractive, well-acting Keira Knightley
(who looks stunning in this movie) and the superb acting of Orlando
Bloom (I'm becoming a big fan of his) and Geoffrey Rush, you have a
melting pot of great acting.4. Fun story - Sure there may be a hole or two in the story, but if you
look hard enough, you'll find some in every movie. That being said,
this was an amazingly fun story. I could not help but to be entertained
as the story moved along. I didn't want the story to end, and thanks to
the second and third movies coming out, it won't! 5. Clean - There are not many clean movies made anymore. It's nice to
have a great movie which has no language issues or sensual scenes. This
is almost impossible to find these days. This movie is proof that you
can make a great, clean movie for both adults and children (if they
don't get spooked easily) to enjoy.I could add some more items, but these 5 should be enough to show why
this was such an excellent movie. I can only hope that the second and
third ones match up to the standards which the first one has set.

******
5 July 2006
9
Pirates of the Caribbean I think came as a surprise to a lot of people.
Had Hollywood gone too far...basing a film on an amusement park
ride??!! Slapping a 150 million dollar budget on it and putting huge
stars in the mix?? Well it wasn't a mistake and Disney knocked one out
of the park with this incredible swashbuckling adventure that
completely invigorates the "Pirate" film, not that I can think of any
others at the moment. Pirates is possibly one of the greatest adventure
films I've ever sat through. Completely unashamed of it's 2 1/2 hour
time frame and although still to this die hyped as a kids movie it's
pretty brutally violent at times with freaky undead pirates and plenty
of sword play and guns blazing. Director Gore Verbinski creates this
entire Caribbean world with all this legend and lore and it just draws
you into it's people and places and the adventure ahead of them. It is
non stop adventure!! On top of all this is a guaranteed cinema classic character...the one,
the only Oscar Nominated performance of Captain Jack Sparrow by Johnny
Depp. How can you sum up Captain Jack Sparrow, he's an anti-hero...not
quite a good guy, tries very hard to be a bad guy but also has a very
high moral standard according to the Pirate Code. One of the great
lines in the film is when they think Jack is screwing up an attempt at
stealing a ship and a naval office comments "That has to be the worst
pirate I've ever seen.." and then tides change and they realize Jack
has duped them and taken off with their ship and the same officer
exclaims moments later "That has to be the best Pirate I've ever
seen.." Depp brings the character of Sparrow to life in a way I've
rarely seen. Jack Sparrow is a brilliant, vibrant, fun, hilarious,
tough hero with such a unique personality. If for no other reason he
makes this film and Depp IS Sparrow and deserved that Oscar nod for
this. Orlando Bloom is the young handsome swashbuckler/blacksmith who
gets involved in this adventure over the love of a woman. Bloom plays
young William Turner who doesn't realize he is the son of a famous
Pirate. Bloom who I often find rather drab and low brow seems to make
that work for him in many roles and this is no exception. He still
manages to be subtly vibrant and him and Depp play such an incredible
duo playing off each other in action scenes and comedy all at once.
This is the pirate version of a buddy cop movie and Bloom and Depp are
perfect together. Bloom's performance is in many ways the exact
opposite of Depp's Sparrow and it works wonderfully. He is the perfect
hero...handsome, in love, quiet and strong. Keira Knightley is the
lovely Elizabeth Swann, daughter of the Governor and a bit of a dreamer
when it comes to adventure and pirates. Secretly in love with William
Turner she is being promised to another man who is a "better match."
Knightley is terrific as Swann because she is as strong a character as
any of the male leads. She holds her own against all of them and her
character is feisty, strong and holds her own in battle. She does all
this while still appearing lady like as to the time of the film. The
absolutely phenomenal Geoffrey Rush plays Captain Barbossa, Jack
Sparrow's brutally evil nemesis who has stole his ship and crew from
him but has been cursed by a treasure. Barbossa is Captain Hook with a
shot of evil in him. He's brutal and convincing and Rush is brilliant.
Him and Depp have terrific chemistry as enemies and he is a great
adversary and probably one of the best movie villains of all time.The chemistry and performance between these four actors make this film
as brilliant as it could be. Add into that an absolutely stunning story
and script that mixes true action with laugh out loud comedy, physical
stunts and special effects. Being a huge anti-fan of CGI I was a little
disappointed with the hokey look of the undead Pirate Crew, I think
they could have done more with good old fashion special effects. The
crew looks clunky and fake when they are CGI'd out but even still it
doesn't ruin the film by any means. Adults will love this just as much
as kids if kids should even see it. There is plenty of the good guys
specifically the English Navy who die at the hands of pirates and the
pirates are pretty brutal as well and there are some really creepy
scenes and I think adults will love this one!! Don't let the Disney
stamp scare you away because you can't get adventure better then this
one...I guarantee it...savvy?? 9/10

******
24 May 2006
9
When Pirates of the Caribbean trailers first started showing, it looked
like a good, fun, pirate movie. Nothing incredibly special, but still a
nice looking movie. After all, everyone loves pirates ;) But after
seeing it, you realize it IS incredibly special, an unbelievably
entertaining, exciting, suspenseful, action-packed, funny, movie.
Johnny Depp is absolutely phenomenal as he plays the role of Captain
Jack Sparrow, who is an immensely funny character. Everyone else does
great as well! Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom do a great job together!
Pirates of the Caribbean has everything you could ask for and more, and
at the end of it you feel happy and complete. Gore Verbinski did an
excellent job and it moves nicely. Everything seems to be in the right
place at the right time and it rolls smoothly towards the end with no
real plot holes. What small errors there are you most likely won't even
notice due to the fact there is always something going on, so you won't
find your eyes wondering other places. I gave it a 9 of course which is
pretty much the highest rating I plan on giving until the perfect movie
is made, and who knows, it might just be Pirates of the Caribbean 2! Or
to sum it all up, it belongs on anyone who likes movies top list! ;)

******
20 May 2006
10
I think this movie is the best movie ever. Johnny Depp and Orlando
Bloom were awesome in this movie. Geoffry Rush and Keira Knightly were
also very good in this movie. I recommend this movie to a Johnny Depp
fan or a person who loves any type of movie. Because this is the movie
for you!! I loved this movie so much I went out and bought it. If you
are a Johnny Depp lover I also suggest to watch: The Ninth Gate,
Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, and Secret Movie. If you have any
other good Johnny Depp movies please e-mail me at
goofy_gurl_48@msn.com. Can't wait for Pirates 2 to come out. I want to
see that so bad. It is the most wanted sequel of the year.

******
8 May 2006
10
Pirates of the Caribbean is an ultimate movie! Johnny Depp's sexiest
performance ever. Seen it four times and am absolutely dying, YES
DYING!, to see number two and three. If you've heard of the film and
thought it looked like too much of a kiddy's film, honestly, think
again. The pirates aren't stereotypical eye-patch and wooden sword
characters, their originality is what makes the film. Jack Sparrow is a
loyal yet unpredictable part played by Johnny Depp, and made me laugh
throughout with his hilarious random jokes. Best pirate film of all
time in my opinion. Captain Jack Sarrow, Wil Turner (Orlando Bloom),
Elizabeth Swan (Keira Knightley) and Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush)
all search for what they're looking for in the Caribbean until death
gets in the way!

******
8 May 2006
8
THe movie "Pirates of the Caribbean(curse of the black pearl)gave me
what I expected...FUN and enjoyment,I fell in love with Johnny Depp(who
looked very cute by the way, despite all the makeup on his face)as
Captain Jack Sparrow,He really delivered his role very well.He was
funny and scary at the same time!!The cast was amazing,Orlando Bloom
and Goeffrey Rush did amazing as well.The movie was injected with
humor,mystery and suspense!!The sword fights was very entertaining.The
story was a little predictable,though,but either way It was a good
movie.You will laugh,you will scream and you will love it!I know I
did!One of Johnny Depp's best movies.I can't wait for the next one!

******
13 April 2006
9
Pirates of the Caribbean was an excellent movie with everything a movie
should have to entertain. It was action, humor, love, and a s great
story line. Even the music is exciting. I highly recommend this film to
anyone, whether they are 9 or 90...it has something to offer everyone.
The acting was stupendous, the story was exciting, and throughout the
movie I was glad to be watching it and when I was done watching, I
wanted to see it again and again. I am very excited about the 2nd
Pirates of the Caribbean to come out in July and I'm sure even the 3rd
one in 2007 will have just as much to offer. My only fear is that this
trilogy will be become mindless like so many others have(Mission
Impossible.)But with a cast like Johnny Deep and Orlando Bloom, I doubt
it will go south.

******
12 April 2006
10
This movie is without a doubt the best movie ever made.. (so far) I
think that he's exciting, very good, and you can live your selves in to
the movie. And every time (specialy the first time of course) you look
at the movie you will be so catch-ed, and you can't be interrupted of
anyone because the movie is so good, and you are holding tight on the
chair while you're watching. I mean.. I have looked at this movie a 100
times.And I can still sit down and watch it again and again. You are
punishing yourselves not looking at this movie.. Serious..Watch it alright?

******
8 April 2006
10
this movie in definitely one of my favorites. i have watched it over
and over again and the plot never bores me.if you are looking for a
worthwhile movies to rent out for the night or even to buy then this is
the movie to choose. the acting in this movie is extraordinary. the
only down fall is that i watched it and i thought it maybe should have
been rated MA because there was quite a bit of violence. apart from
that it is still one of my favorite movies of all time. johnny depp is
absolutely amazing in this movie and i have never seen anyone act drunk
as well as he does. he pulls off the pirate character perfectly.
orlando bloom and keira knightley are amazing in it to and orlando is
an absolute heartthrob and will get you watching it time and time
again!

******
7 April 2006
8
I certainly enjoyed this movie. Johnny Depp's mugging and
swashbuckling. His sly expressions. The conflict with the power
structure which would like to see him hanged. The special effects are
quite impressive. There are two problems that kept me from giving this
the ultimate rating. It is way too long. I don't know if they edited
anything out of this. The thing with the ghost ship was endless.
Secondly, like a video game, there were all these rules we were
supposed to remember. The ones that mortals are supposed to play by and
the ones the ghosts must play by. I'm starting to feel that for some
films, we should be given a handbook to keep it all straight. Perhaps
an in-service of some kind. When this is mostly a pirate movie, it is
great fun. There are battles; there is tongue in cheek commentary.
There are beautiful women who can stand up to any man; you name it.
When the supernatural element enters in, it is also fun. But there's
something about being forced to kill people that are already dead. Just
exactly is it that you must do? Again, play by the rules. Anyway, it's
a wonderful romp. It almost gets resolved in the end, and we're ready
for more.

******
26 March 2006
8
Hugely entertaining film. Depp as always is fantastic and his take on
his character makes the film in my opinion.Great special effects, good twist on the pirate story, although its
still typically Disney, the same formula is there,but hey its for the
kids! The only grievance I have is Orlando Bloom,who is becoming very
annoying (why do I always think of Percy from Black Adder!). He just
comes across too goody-goody and doesn't seem to be able to give
anything different to his characters. He should take a leaf from Mr
Depp in that department!I am looking forward to seeing the sequel because I reckon there's a
lot of miles left in Capt Jack Sparrow.8/10 (9/10 if Orlando wasn't in it, sorry girls!)

******
7 March 2006
8
Going into this film I thought I like the ride more than I will this
film.That is still true but.....This film is fun. And, much better than I thought it would be.Bought the soundtrack, it fit perfectly to the film.As a woman, loved looking at Orlando.Knightley we can do without. The more I see of her the less I like her.
Too much.Depp was great as Jack.Looking forward to the 1st sequel & seeing Keith Richards who the Jack
character was based.A draw back though, the action scenes, although good, are a bit too
long. Could have been trimmed."Yo Ho, Yo Ho, A Pirates Life For Me".

******
28 February 2006
10
When i first saw Pirates i was expecting a more master and commander
themes. However once it started, the acting ability of Johnny Depp and
Geoffrey Rush were shown from the start. I do believe that Geoffrey
Rush has been forgotten for his perfect display, it was he and Depp who
made the film what is still is. This movie brings a whole new dimension
to pirate movies, there hasn't been one for a while and this really did
set Johnny Depp onto a fligher. The acting of Kira knightly and Orlando
bloom was ordinary, but they fitted perfectly into the script and had
the odd descent one liner. Pirates 2 and 3 look hopeful yet i fear it
could be ruined, as not every film made is capable of having sequels.
The matrix was a good tell tale fact for that.

******
26 February 2006
8
Though we were too late to get tickets for it, my partner and I had the
good fortune (and timing) to be in Anaheim when the world premiere for
PIRATES was taking place. It was his umpteenth time at Disneyland, my
very first, (at age 43, yet!!!) For him, it was a revelation about
seeing the Magic Kingdom through adult eyes vs. the awestruck vision of
a young teenager. Even more so for me, since coming to the Magic
Kingdom had been virtually all I dreamed about after seeing it so many
times on "The Wonderful World of Disney." Needless to say, though I
pretty much enjoyed myself there, a lot of the more kid-friendly
attractions simply left me cold, or at the very most, lukewarm. At the
top of the list of things that left me less-than-impressed?
Pirates-of-the-Caribbean: The Ride.The goofy joy tempered with thrills and chills that I remember, seeing
the ride on a show about Disneyland itself (which has been thoughtfully
included on the POTC DVD extras) was totally dissipated by a sense of
ghastly horror...horror at the fact that the ride hadn't changed in
nearly twenty years!!! You could even see the places on some of the
animatronic figures where they had simply been patched up with spit,
chewing gum and chicken wire! Even after seeing the previews, which
were exciting in that bombastic Jerry Bruckheimer-way, I remember
thinking as I got off the ride, "Ohmigod. Disney is gonna lose their
shirts on this one." A big budget feature based on a dilapidated theme park attraction, set
in a genre that had been considered dead since that disaster known as
CUTTHROAT ISLAND? What chance could Disney have of possibly turning
this sow's ear into a silk purse loaded with gold doubloons? Not a
single one. But miracle of miracles, they pulled it off!!! Every so often, Hollywood puts together a project guaranteed to be an
absolute disaster. The director is anything but a veteran, the leading
man is way too quirky, unpredictable or just plain difficult, the
script comes from writers who are hit-and-miss at best, and the
producers are known for their plot-free, bloated behemoths of
sunscreen-weather blockbusters. The end result? Like a Rube Goldberg
contraption, the damn thing may actually work, but that doesn't mean it
will do anything or go anywhere.Yet, with Gore Verbinski (THE RING, MOUSE HUNT) at the helm, Jerry
Bruckheimer (BAD BOYS 2, ENEMY OF THE STATE) producing, a script by Ted
Elliott and Terry Rossio (GODZILLA) and the inscrutable Johnny Depp in
the lead, PIRATES takes the disgraced and abandoned niche of pirate
movies and brings it back to life with a bang and a "yo ho ho!" in a
way not seen since the days of the original TREASURE ISLAND or CAPTAIN
BLOOD.Not only that, but the film still manages to give plenty of
'nudge-wink' references to the ride upon which it is based, while still
entertaining you in a wildly reckless and gleeful way that all but
obliterates the memory of the original experience from your senses.
Should they ever redesign and revamp the ride, they now have the
blueprint for it.And speaking of blueprints, I'm astonished at myself for actually
looking forward to the sequel, (and that's even without the famously
rumored appearance of the Stones' Keith Richard as Jack Sparrow's
miserable excuse for a father.) Bringing back the fresh, naive heroism
of Will Turner (Orlando Bloom, who could use a solid hit right about
now), the feisty sexiness of Elizabeth Turner (Keira Knightley, who has
become famous for that very quality in her heroines) and the
murderously jovial sensibility of Geoffrey Rush's scenery-chewing
Captain Barbossa is the smartest move the filmmakers could've made.Let's just hope that for this series, PIRATES 2 is more like THE
GODFATHER 2, and not SPEED 2: CRUISE CONTROL.

******
4 February 2006
8
When I first heard about this film, I have to say I felt underwhelmed.
Another movie based off of a Disney ride, oh what fun! Despite the
presence of Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom giving "Pirates" a little
star credibility, I believed that this movie would be sunk* at the box
office.However, after I saw it, I had a complete change of heart. It was as
funny and as exciting as most of my friends had avowed. "Pirates" is a
light-hearted action filled romp, perfect for idling away an afternoon.
Certainly, some of the acting was a little over the top (i.e., Depp and
Rush), but that seems fitting for this movie. I am now eagerly awaiting
"Dead Man's Chest" and hoping that it will live up to the standard that
its predecessor set.*I apologize sincerely for this terrible pun. I couldn't help myself.

******
11 January 2006
10
oh man....this movie is soo good....it has just the right mix of
comedy, action, and romance!! oh i loved it!!! i can't wait until
pirates of the caribbean 2 comes out!!!!! only 6 months left!!!!
orlando bloom is so cute!!!! johnny depp is so good in this movie!! he
is so funny! he is my favorite actor! i also loved is
ragetti.....(mackenzie crook) he is very good.....weird eye, but yeah.
i thought they could have made barbossa better, but they did a pretty
good job...yeah this is definitely my fav movie....my little sister
even loved it.....and she is 9!! everyone i know loved it.....sigh....i
love this movie...

******
10 January 2006
10
Johnny Depp is the most versatile actor of this time..He is good at many genres and he is very pure and also mild in his
acting..We will feel his purity when he is acting ,very interesting...Very good, I felt bad when he was not the winner of the 2003 academy
awards night....yet, of all the nominations you can see how Mr. Depp was the best...there is nothing who can out stand him..he is the BEST actor, probably the most versatile actor of this current
time..I think he deserves to be a winner of 10+ academy awards...Best actor of 2006 POTC2...yeah I will congratulate Mr. Depp for winning it instant...You are the best Mr. Johnny Depp

******
8 September 2003
8

I didn't expect too much from this film, but I do have a soft spot for
pirates and I got to see this one at a drive-in, so I figured I had nothing
to lose.  It turned out to be a really pretty good film, both for its
stirring action and its witty dialogue, played to a tee by Depp and Bloom
and bunch.  Depp is great and very appropriately over the top as a pirate
captain out for revenge on the crew who abandoned him on an island for dead.
 The curse that has been placed on the crew requires them to find every
peice of a particular treasure or they will have to live forever as zombies.
 This isn't a movie you could say a lot about, but it was a whole lot of fun,
and I'm looking forward to seeing it again, hopefully this time with a
bottle of rum!

******
19 July 2003
9

Seeing the previews of this one I thought it would be a nice fun adventure
and as it turns out it was.  The person though that stands out the most in
this one though is Johnny Depp, he was great has Captain Jack Sparrow. 
There wasn't to many moments in this one when he was on screen that didn't
make me at least chuckle.  He really made the film for me, though the rest
of the cast was good to with Geoffrey Rush as the bad guy and Orlando Bloom
doing excellent jobs as well. The female lead was great too.  This one
though was just a purely fun movie to watch.  The scenery was great too on
the open seas.  The only thing I had problems with are some plot points and
the movie did run a bit long.  I still am not quite sure why they needed the
one guys blood and there was something else that didn't quite fit together
as well, like what was up with the compass, but these are minor problems I
had with it and in no way do they diminish the enjoyment I had watching this
one.  Great swordfights in this one as well, as I love a good sword fight in
a movie.  This one is also good for the whole family, and I am still
wondering why it was rated PG and not PG-13 as I think the ratings board
these days is a bit crazy.  If the last two Star Wars movies were PG then
this one should have been as well.  All in all a great time to be had by
everyone.

******
13 July 2003
4
This movie could have been absolutely fantastic, except for one thing
-- Johnny Depp's unfortunate choice of playing Jack Sparrow as a
drunken, mumbling git. The movie (though a bit long), is great fun,
with swordplay, gunplay, zombies, cannons, and witty dialog -- this
last spoiled in part by Depp's insistence on mumbling all his lines.
Although apologists say that the character was supposed to be crazy
with the sun (for an incident we later learn was only 3 days long, and
well-provisioned at that), it seems to me that it was just a completely
bad choice of characterization. Better by far to have picked as a model
the Burt Lancaster portrayal of Captain Vallo "The Crimson Pirate"
(1952 -- as I suspect the writer intended -- "Vallo" --> "Sparrow"). In
that movie, Lancaster was perhaps the ultimate "Ha-HA!" character, with
the same winking- at-the-audience kind of verve that the Jack Sparrow
character sort of had. (Indeed, the walking-the-boat-across-the-bottom scene is right out of
"Crimson Pirate", along with the generally acrobatic ship scenes.) This
and various plot holes (which involve massive spoilers, so I'll leave
them out) took a possibly great movie, and made it a so-so experience
for me...

******
16 November 2009
8
"From producer Jerry Bruckheimer comes 'Pirates of the Caribbean: The
Curse of the Black Pearl', the thrilling high-seas adventure with a
mysterious twist. The roguish yet charming Captain Jack Sparrow's
(Johnny Depp) idyllic pirate life capsizes after his nemesis, the wily
Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush), steals his ship, the 'Black Pearl',
and later attacks the town of Port Royal, kidnapping the governor's
beautiful daughter Elizabeth (Keira Knightley)."In a gallant attempt to rescue her and recapture the 'Black Pearl',
Elizabeth's childhood friend Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) joins forces
with Jack. What Will doesn't know is that a cursed treasure has doomed
Barbossa and his crew to live forever as the undead," according to the
DVD sleeve description.This first "PG-13"-rated Disney film unexpectedly became the first of a
"Pirates of the Caribbean" feature franchise based on one of the
company's amusement park rides. It's Disney off the Jerry Bruckheimer
production line (so, plan accordingly), and is eye-pleasingly
well-produced. The screenplay, by Ted Elliott and Terry Rossio, is
quite a nice modernization of the classic "pirate" story.The film's greatest strength is Mr. Depp's slosh-buckling,
swish-buckling, swaggering, and staggering "Jack Sparrow".Depp's characterization cuts through the screen with uncommon, original
charm. This part made critics strut up and take notice, with Depp being
rewarded with several "Best Actor" awards and nominations. This was
also the film which vaulted Depp into the Quigley "Box Office" Top 10
stars list (#6, with a bullet). Actually, it conformed something
already a reality among moviegoers - Depp in the cast made a film worth
considering, and Depp as the star made a film worth shelling out the
bucks to see.******** The Curse of the Black Pearl (6/28/03) Jerry Bruckheimer :
Gore Verbinski ~ Johnny Depp, Orlando Bloom, Keira Knightley, Geoffrey
Rush

******
29 December 2008
5
Okay, so I just finished watching this first Pirates of the Caribbean
movie on ABC which means that there might have been some edits for
either content or time constraints in the three hour slot.
Nevertheless, I was a little entertained by some of the fight sequences
and many of the lines and attitude of Johnny Depp's Jack Sparrow
character. I'm not completely sure he deserved the Oscar nomination for
it but hey, he finally got the public recognition as a result so it's
all good. Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom and Geoffrey Rush are also
adequate here so this movie was a little enjoyable to me though I
couldn't completely connect the disparate sequences that seemed to
meander throughout. Still, like I said, Pirates of the Caribbean: The
Curse of the Black Pearl was pretty enjoyable so maybe I'll watch this
again someday...

******
15 June 2008
9
This is the most favorite movie I have ever seen. The stage is surroundings of the Caribbean sea of the 17th century.
Elizabeth and Will love each other, but it is not possible because they
differ in social standings. One day, Elizabeth is kidnapped by Pirates
who lead captain Barbossa because she has Will's gold skull medallion.
Then, Will go to save Elizabeth with Jack who is a pirate put in
prison.This is an action-packed movie. Viewpoint is Jack's performance. Jack,
played by Johnny Depp, acts marvelously. Viewers are probably almost
heart-stopping. One thing I regret is the plot. It is also a Romantic
Comedy, but the plot is a kind of basic rescue story. Anyway, I love
this movie. I think it's definitely worth watching for everyone!

******
24 January 2005
9
Often I've not been the world's biggest Johnny Depp fan, and any film
made by Disney is usually by default corny rubbish targeted at raking
in as much cash as possible with no merit whatsoever.This is very different.Depp plays a wonderfully camp pirate captain helping the sickeningly
annoying (as usual) Orlando Bloom get the girl while battling against
the new pirate captain Geoffrey Rush, who mutineered Depp when he was
his captain.Swashbucklingly funny frequently, the highlight is definitely Depp's
performance is what is a very enjoyable ride.

******
21 January 2005
10
I really don't care what the other comments say, I loved this movie,
and not only because of Johnny Depp, but also for the story, and the
really nice make-up and costumes and hair styles. All of these combined
made Pirates of the Caribbean a great movie. Of course it's not one of
the best ones, but i think it deserves it's rating. And I really don't
understand how come all the other comments have something negative to
say about this movie. After i saw i the first time, i watched it
another 5 times in the following days. I really recommend this movie to
all people, because it keeps you in suspense and it doesn't have any
sex scenes or dirty talk. It's perfect to watch it with your family or
with your friends.

******
13 January 2005
10
Storyline:The storyline was amazing. I won't tell you, but it has a lot to do
with pirates. The story is very clever and has many twists in it. 10/10Graphics:Also very good. They were not over-used, and when they were they were
cleverly used in the right situation. Again, very good. 10/10Characters:The characters were very in-depth. You begin to learn a lot about them
during the film. This aspect cleverly ties in with the story, as a girl
uses a man's sirname in it (Turner) which makes a big twist in the
story. Excellent. 10/10Altogether:This was a spectacular, amazing and astonishing film. If you say it's
just 'good' or you 'like it', then you're wrong. If there's anyone who
hasn't seen it, see it NOW! No, not next month, not in 10 days, not
tomorrow, NOW! It will do you a world of good! 30/30 (Total score
/10=10)

******
8 January 2005
9
Have you read the summary? I really, never thought I'd say that. By I
have. How could any Disney film get better than an all time classic,
the Lion King? Five names: Gore Verbinski, Johnny Depp, Kiera Knightly,
Orlando Bloom and Geoffry Rush. They have, marvellously, created the
best Disney movie of all time, and by far the best movie of 2003. Yes.
Even better than Lost in Translation.This film is splendid because of so many reasons: for one, the acting
is top-notch and so believable. Two: they blend in many different
aspects immaculately. It's funny, suspense, fast-paced and overall,
simply brilliant. Disney's Best and most well done movie is not "Snow
White" or "Alice in Wonderland". In fact, not even "Steam-Boat Willie".
It's there most recent effort to date: Pirates of the Caribbean.Final Analysis: ***** out of ***** (5 out of 5)

******
30 October 2003
10

I figured I'd comment after all the craze for Pirates. I've seen this movie
5 times in the theater. you know how it goes, a friend says "I haven't seen
that" or parent wants quality time, etc., etc., etc. But I didn't mind
seeing it again and again. It was a good movie.Johnny Depp, whew! That boy is hot. And his acting isn't bad either, just
kidding. he's a wonderful actor. He does an excellent job in this film. He
can do a wonderful comic charactor. Orlando just keeps getting better and better. He's a great romantic actor.
And you just automatically fall in love with his charactor.Kate is a good actress. She has the whole "Damsil In Distress" routine down.
But in the end I fell in love with her role.Geffory, damn! What can I say? He can't give an unforgettable performance.10/10A movie that everyone should see

******
3 December 2003
8

Just kidding. "Pirates of the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl" is an
extravagant and sumptuous feast albeit an awful lot of talking...and we all
know pirates were long on plunder and short on words. It's politically
correct Disney all the way with this watered down and convoluted family fun
fare which has delighted the critics and public alike. However, there was no
black eye patch, no peg leg, no hanging from a yard arm, no pieces of eight
or dubloons, and its common knowledge that planks were always walked
blindfolded which was a big part of pirate fun. Also, what's up with sword
fighting someone you can't kill? Good stuff even if it was an encyclopedia
version pirating as opposed to the more real good ol' Hollywood version of
the buccaneer. (B+)

******
13 April 2010
1
This movie was so stupid I couldn't finish it. The beginning to this
movie dreadfully long. I couldn't believe I sat through half of this
movie. One of the major problems with this movie was that it was so
unrealistic that it ruined the whole movie. The real pirates were
nothing like the pirates in this fake piece of trash. I would rather
watch my finger nails grow than watch this stupid movie again. If your
into the fake stupid pirate movies than I would recommend this movie,
but if you like movies that are realistic than avoid at all costs. I
don't know how this piece of garbage made it to theaters. Hollywood has
really gone down hill their new movies. This movie was a real
disappointment to say the least.

******
17 December 2009
8
and its nothing more than pure fun. The sequel was not as good but
watchable the third one was utter crap (and that's me praising it if
anyone could figure out what was going on in that movie they're doing
better than me) but now onto this movie.This movie follows the quest of Captain Jack Sparrow, a savvy pirate,
and Will Turner, a resourceful blacksmith, as they search for Elizabeth
Swann. Elizabeth, the daughter of the governor and the love of Will's
life, has been kidnapped by the feared Captain Barbossa. Little do they
know, but the fierce and clever Barbossa has been cursed. He, along
with his large crew, are under an ancient curse, doomed for eternity to
neither live, nor die. That is, unless a blood sacrifice is made.This movie is one of the few movies on IMDb that I agree with it's
overall rating sometimes crap on there is overrated and some good
movies are underrated on here

******
25 October 2009
8
This movie is simply a lot of fun due to the legendary premise, not
fully understand until it is right in front of our nose, and how can
you not adore Johnny Depp's dead pan Keith Richards impersonation as a
pirate for Disney and their theme park mentality. This odd combination
is one of the funniest screen personas ever created, adding a prideful
element of egocentric status to this likable adventure. Orlando Bloom
is noble as he chases the beautiful Keira Knightly, but it is Geoffrey
Rush as Barbossa that adds the fairy tale element as the smart and
commanding villain pirate, while the silly British army, always a step
behind, adds a bit of comic belief. The Disney special effects complete
the fun and certify this film and The Black Pearl as Disney magic.

******
7 October 2009
8
I remembering being completely uninterested when I first heard of this
film. Understandably, seeing as how a movie from Disney based off of a
ride from their theme park didn't sound as if it'd provide the
strongest foundation for a feature film. It wasn't until my girlfriend
of the time convinced me to watch it that I finally agreed and I'm
really glad I did. This movie was nothing close to what I was
expecting, blowing away every expectation I'd set for it...it was
funny, exciting, engaging, and wasn't as PC or family-friendly as your
average Walt Disney film. The story follows Captain Jack Sparrow
(Johnny Depp) as he embarks on a quest to reclaim his ship, the Black
Pearl, from his mutinous first mate, Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush).
What Jack doesn't know is that Barbossa and his crew have since
acquired a curse, giving them immortality...at a price. Honestly, the
story actually appears to have stronger ties to the characters of
Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) and William Turner (Orlando Bloom),
but let's face it...the pirates are better.Director Gore Verbinski and producer Jerry Bruckheimer have really
outdone themselves with this film. They have managed to bring together
some incredible elements to create a memorable film that was easily one
of the best movies in 2003. The production value was incredible, with
excruciating detail apparent in everything from the costume design and
make-up to the beautiful set design. Throw in a cast that was top-notch
(and that includes the supporting players) and you've got a great
conglomeration. We all know how hilarious Depp was in his iconic role
as the not-as-clueless-as-he-seems Captain Jack and he alone is worth
seeing this movie at least once. Equal in every way is Geoffrey Rush as
the evil Barbossa, who's performance I don't feel is getting enough
attention. The movie could've focused on Depp and Barbossa without all
of the other plot devices and it still would've been great based on the
skill of the two alone. Keira Knightley was beautiful in her role as
Elizabeth and seemed to pull her weight against the heavyweight stars;
Orlando Bloom, on the other hand, didn't wow me but he also didn't
weaken the film. I'd wrong not to include kudos for Jack Davenport, Lee
Arenberg, Mackenzie Crook, Kevin McNally and the rest of the great cast
who brought the film to life.Seeing as how the major plot device involves undead pirates, the
special effects were a crucial element. For the most part, they never
disappoint. There are a few moments where the CGI was a bit too
apparent and it throws you back into reality for a moment but only for
a moment before the characters draw you back in. Writers Ted Elliot,
Terry Rossio, Stuart Beattie, and Jay Wolpert did an awesome job
turning nothing (an amusement park ride) into something and Verbinski
took that something and created a fun, funny and most importantly
memorable summer film.

******
10 February 2009
8
Blacksmith Will Turner (Bloom) seeks the help of a pirate (Depp) to
rescue Elizabeth Swan (Knightly) from the most haunted ship in the
seas, the Black Pearl.Nominated for 5 Oscars, the first instalment of the Pirates trilogy is
a fine swashbuckling adventure that depicts the legend of pirates in a
way that is dark but also humorous and dramatic.Johnny Depp (Ed Wood) is Oscar nominated for his role as Captain Jack
Sparrow, the pirate with a muddled agenda, and a humorous muddled
personality. Depp depicts the Captain in a way that is outrageously
funny, none more so than the first viewing as you will have never seen
anything like it before. The improvisations by Depp including a fine
last line are superb. Timing and sophisticated approach to the man
without a plan is sweet acting at its very finest and though the
sequels have diminished the protagonist (not to mention awful parodies
in spoof films) he is undoubtedly different.Keira Knightly (Pride and Prejudice) and Orlando Bloom (The Calcium
Kid) are as poor as each other and are always in Depp's light. Geoffrey
Rush (Shine) is almost as fine as Depp with a talented depiction of
evil and wisdom.Depp's performance aside, the best element of this 2003 picture is the
story. Though for me it took a couple of watches to fully comprehend,
the narrative revolves around a haunted ship known by the folks as The
Black Pearl. This element of the film is a symbol of freedom and an
element of mystery that gives the characters chance to look upon and
hope for the best. But it's the use of Aztec gold that really gets your
mind working. The puzzle of the curse that is affecting the crew is a
weird and wonderful element of the narrative that raises as many
questions that it doesn't answer. There are twists and turns, none more
so than right at the end in a final showdown if you like.The plot is mainly consistent but the political edge frequently
undermines the tale of legends and pirates.Based on a theme park ride, Pirates produced millions on release and
wasn't long before two sequels were drawn up. These undermine this
first with poor scripted and effect driven stories, but will never take
the shine of this fantasy adventure, which is a mostly finely acted and
frequently entertaining picture with a certain character that you won't
forget in a hurry.

******
13 December 2008
8
Disney's recipe for a multi-millionaire franchise: Mix some good
pirates, with Johnny Depp as the main ingredient, (make sure they're
warm-hearted and technically losers), with a few infra-world evil
pirates, in a semi-real Renaissance world, spiced with a love story and
with lots and lots of laughs. Heat it up for 2 hours approximately and
you'll win more than any President would earn in a lifetime.If that sounded a little bit too rude for you, I assure my intentions
weren't bad. "Pirates of the Caribbean" is a very entertaining and
funny story about the 4 most appreciated treasures of life: love,
family, power and money.Jack Sparrow is one of the most interesting characters in movie
history, an eccentric but in a very strange way, a human being like
ourselves. Special effects, make up, music, costume design and art
direction are just magnificent. The villain, excellent. Plot and
direction are quite good. Keira Knightley and Orlando Bloom are just
nice.Even though, we find in "Pirates..." a very different face of Walt
Disney Studios, more mature and quite changed for trying to adapt to
the 21st century audiences. I must say: Nice way to go, Bruckheimer,
keep up the good work and I'm looking forward to watch another
high-quality franchise like this.

******
27 August 2006
9
I'm probably the only person on Earth that believes this, but I think
that Geoffrey Rush's performance in Pirates of the Caribbean was better
than Johnny Depp's. I agree that Depp is spectacular as Captain Jack
Sparrow, and his performance makes the movie much better, but Rush's
performance as Captain Barbosa is by far the most outstanding in the
movie. The movie wouldn't be nearly as good without Rush's performance.
The next time you watch the movie, pay special attention to Captain
Barbosa (his mannerisms, the way he delivers his lines, etc.). You'll
agree with me. Geoffrey Rush is very over-looked and under-rated in
this movie.

******
8 July 2006
8
Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp channeling Keith Richards), a deposed
and left for dead pirate joins blacksmith Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)
on the hunt for the cursed Black Pearl, Jack's former ship until his
lecherous first mate Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush) wrestled it away from him
and left him stranded on an island. Jack wants his ship; Will wants the
jewel of his eye the lovely Elizabeth Swann (Keira Knightley) now held
captive by the scurvy Barbossa. But these mean hombres are a bit harder
to crack than usually thanks to a nifty curse that turns them into the
undead. Arrrr! It seems that Walt Disney Company somehow had gotten their memos
crossed when they sent 'Pirates' sailing into production (the ride
comes AFTER the film, not before). But no matter what is cranked out by
the Bruckheimer machine is a fun romp through the spray of the
Caribbean. Director Verbinski (hot off success with 'The Ring') creates
an action packed walk down the plank that occasionally gets a bit long
in the tooth but you know the next big sequence is right around the
corner. A lot of nifty effects (the dead crew of the Black Pearl for
instance) round out a nicely created production and design. On the
acting front while Knightley and Bloom are fine in their roles Depp (as
often is the case) steals the show as the staggering Jack whose a
crafty sort but more lucky than anything. Rush chews the scenery in his
own right leading up to a knock-down, drag-out with Sparrow. Good fun
for the family, just keep your hands in the car.

******
27 November 2005
6
Far be it from me to judge films like a specialist, but POC is quite an
experience. Throughout the film you will obviously notice what makes it
good, but perhaps not what makes it fairly appalling. Johnny Depp takes
the part of a half maddened pirate who lost his ship years ago and
subsequently arrives on an Island whereupon he encounters the
blacksmith who has no expression. Keira Knightley is just as poor as
her majesty's fellow servant. Luckily, Johnny Depp is so good, you
don't notice the other two who are just terrible. All in all, the film
is enjoyable, although the story lacks any real twists. How can you
guys have rated it 8.1?

******
28 August 2005
10
I rated this film 10/10 because when i watched it i had to watch the
whole film. also i fell in love with Orlando Bloom so that was probably
another reason. this film was definitely top marks and i cant wait to
watch the next two films of pirates of the Caribbean and i hope that
they will be as good as this first one. If there is one person who has
got something bad to say about this film it would most probably be a
boring person who has no taste in films at all and if they think i am
being mean well I'm sorry but i have got to write something because i
am not allowed to publish this if it does not have 10 lines or more.i
am nearly there now so sorry if i offended anyone but actually you
would be crazy not to like this film!!!

******
27 August 2005
10
i think its the best film ever i think Johnny Depp steals it. he plays
the part brilliant.(Johnny Depp is ace) all the rest of the actors are
brilliant as well. i think its a great story line it also has a lot of
mysteries in it like how does he get of the island at first.it has a lot of humour in it. its great how they sort of mix an
adventure comedy film with a love story. the special effects are really
good like when the pirates turn to skeletons. i was glad that captain
barboser was killed at the end he deserved iti think the film is fab and would recommend it to everyone i cart wait
for the second and third to come out

******
24 August 2005
10
o boy what to say in this realm of technology and vampire stuff this
movie came like it is heavy as johnny says .. the best actor i have
ever seen so versatile and movie looks terrific its story its subject
its cast all is just great . and off course all the characters were
good but johny's performance was absolutely out standing , his way of
speaking , dialogue delivery and strange movements which make him good
, what to say he is the best. movie seems to be a bit hasty at some
points but characters played it well all those bot scenes that ships
islands especially the sets of that port royale no wonder why the movie
did get so many Oscars..

******
11 March 2005
10
This movie was absolutely perfect in every aspect. The casting, script,
direction, set design, makeup, and costumes were exquisite. I'm glad
Gore and the others decided not to kill off Jack Sparrow. It just
wouldn't have been the same without him in the sequel, if there would
even be a sequel if they killed him off! It would be like Hollywood
without the legendary, white, gleaming sign. It would be like a book
without words. It would be like the walk of fame with no stars! It
would be like....well, you get the point. I'm sure many agree. Man, I
hope they don't make the mistake they rallied around in the first one
and make him die in the sequel. That would just defeat the purpose one
making the second and third one. Let's just keep our fingers crossed
for now. Only time will tell.

******
6 March 2005
10
this movie is one of the best films i have Eva seen it is a must see
movie and Orlando bloom was very good as and actor in this movie as
well as johnny Depp. it is interesting how jack sparrow and Will turner
meet and have to become friends in order to save will's bonny las as
sparrow says. and how sparrow and barboser must fight to distract him
so jack can (watch the movie) but it is a great story line my fave
scene in the one how jack and will meet jack needs to get rid of him
chains and succeeds and than will walks in and they have a sword
fight.Elizabeth (the bonny las) has the medallion because she took it
from will turner when he was a boy and she loves to sing a song YO HO
YO HO A PIRATES LIFE FOR ME

******
28 February 2005
9
i have nearly seen this movie and told myself why didn't i seen it
before. johnny depp was performed a good character as pirates jack
sparrow in this film. if there is anybody who has never seen this
before should be quick. because the second series of this film will be
presented in 2006. it would be unlucky to be late before 2006. pirates
barbosa was performing a good bad fellow in this film. he was bad man
but very very humorous indeed. we can say it was a full action and
adventure film. you are always worried about the people and the always
find a way to escape any bad situation.barbosa was performing a good
bad fellow in this film. the bad guys in this film have very very good
expression. they all play their role satisfactorily.

******
28 February 2005
10
First off, I loved this movie. It is one of the rare few that I could
sit down and watch for days on end and never get tired of. The
cinematography was beautiful, the story was very interesting, special
effects were stunning, and most of all, Johnny Depp didn't just play
Jack Sparrow, he WAS Jack Sparrow. Giving all due credit to the other
members of the cast, Geoffrey Rush who did a great job, Keira Knightley
and Orlando Bloom, although not nearly as experienced, still held their
own, I feel comfortable making the assumption that most people felt
Johnny Depp was the highlight of the movie. Facial expressions,
attitude, dialogue, etc. coupled with the copious amounts of makeup
made him the star.Overall, if you haven't seen this movie, I suggest you rent it the next
time you have some time.

******
31 December 2004
8
This movie was something really different for the movie-goer crowd.
It's not everyday that you see a pirate movie. A good motto of
Hollywood is do something no one's done before. That's one of the many
good points of Pirates of the Caribbean. The fact that it's supposedly
based on the Disney World ride is kinda lame, considering it's no much
like the ride at all. A weird, deranged pirate by the name of Capt.
Jack Sparrow is our hero. At first I didn't think he was reliable to
the story line. Actor Johnny Depp claims he derived the character from
the lead guitarist of the Rolling Stones, Keith Richards. The plot is
rather confusing and has one or two holes in it, never mind that at
first it's hard to follow. Once you get the gist of it though you
become swept away in the story line and the characters. With the main
stars Johnny Depp, Geoffry Rush, Keira Knightly, and Orlando Bloom it's
rather hard to go wrong, regardless of prederived thoughts. Pirates of
the Caribbean: Curse of the Black Pearl is one of my favoritest movies-
I got pulled into the drama and I fantasied with the characters. I'm
not very hard to please so I give this movie eight stars out of ten.
They could have made it easier to follow and understand. Other than
that...

******
22 February 2004
7

So different from your usual pirate film; really puts it to all the robber
of the seas pictures from the past. Still it is not what I would call a
terrific film or a masterful comedy. Entertaining yet sluggish in spots and
simply too long. Depp shone as the strange, so unlike Long John Silver,
pirate from Hell. Kids oughta love it.

******
29 February 2008
10
it's the best movie ever because i just love it. i don't need a
particular reason. i think Orlando bloom is hot and i think johnny is
an excellent actor. Keria is great too. I love the plot of the movie
like Elizabeth was taken by the gents of Captain Barbossa and the
handsome Will tries to get her back. i love every scene in that movie.
do you agree??? some don't but just matters of an opinion but other
than that i think it's just an great movie. other movies you can see
like Pirde and Prejudice and Tiantic. those are also my favorite movies
cause of romance. yeah i love romantic movies and POTC 1 had some of
that and that's why it's such a great movie.

******
24 December 2007
5
I have just finished watching this film. I must say it was better than
I had expected from the trailers. However this is not a classic film.This is an enjoyable action adventure with some comedy thrown in (and
some skeletons too). I must say just because a film is mildly enjoyable
does not mean it is worth in excess of 6/10.I did not find this film to be anywhere near as good as "The Mask of
Zorro" and Johnny Depps Captain Jack Sparrow was a bit over the top &
eccentric(which was obviously the intention). I found this film to be
of a similar level if a little better than "A Knights Tale".It seemed to me though that having been made by Disney it was aimed at
10-16 year old viewers and although entertaining did not appeal to me
as a film I would watch many times over.

******
16 November 2007
8
Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003, Dir. Gore
Verbinski) When Captain Barbossa sends his pirate crew to kidnap Elizabeth Swan
and the last remaining piece of Aztec gold. A blacksmith called Will
Turner joins a recently captured pirate named Jack Sparrow and goes off
searching for Elizabeth. It's isn't until they all meet up, that they
discover the real terrifying truth behind the Aztec gold, and why they
need Will Turner and not Elizabeth Swan.One genre of films which you do not see a lot of are pirate movies.
This could have helped the success of this movie. No one would have
seen a high quality, big-budget pirate movie. Disney really pulled out
all the stops on it's stars. There are a huge range of talent here from
big stars like Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom, to talent from the likes
of Jonathan Pryce, Geoffrey Rush and Jack Davenport. The story is
beautifully written. There are some great scenes with some wonderful
witty dialogue. The special are impressive too with the skeletons
looking so creepy with their creeping bones. Everything about this film
was perfect and a fantastic start to the trilogy."You seem to forget one thing." "I'm Jack Sparrow." - Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp)

******
21 October 2007
7
It makes me wonder why there was no "pirate movie" until the Pirates of
the Caribbean came out in 2003. I really missed that kind of movies
with ruthless and bearded pirates, mystical adventures out on the sea,
fighting for money, power and treasure... I really missed that all
these years. Now, The Pirates of the Caribbean were made by the
Disneyland attraction by the same name, so I didn't expect a lot from
the movie. First of all, it came from Disney studios, so I didn't
expected to see angry and ruthless pirates and really scary adventures.
So when the movie came out, I decide to gave it a shot.Overall, the movie is not so bad. Johnny Depp is now probably one of
them most talented actors and his acting as goofy pirate Jack Sparrow
is really great. The environment of beautiful Caribbean islands is also
great. Special effects are solid and some of the scenes from the movie
are really scary (of course, from the Disney point of view).The problem of the movie is in the story. The story of the movie is
really predictable, even for the Disney movies. One poor guy is in love
with the rich girl. The girl is taken away by the "evil" pirates. The
poor guy decided to bring the girl back. Of course... the girl is a
governor daughter and he's a nobody, but then he finds out that he's a
son of a pirate. Predictable. Even worse.. the poor guy is played by
two worst actors on the planet: Orlando Bloom and the rich girl is
played by Keira Knightley. You know the rest.The second problem are the "bad" guys in the movie. They're really not
"bad", they just look like a bunch of dorks, being at the wrong place
in the wrong time. There is no "evil" in this movie. The pirates are
shown as a rum - drinking fat morons with bad sense of humor. They're
not evil and not even convincing. The only good character is Jack
Sparrow and even him became annoying with his bad humor after a hour
and a half.Pirates of the Caribbean are good adventure movie, but nothing more
than that. The characters are annoying (Knightley with her really
annoying British accent), there's a lack of real "evil" in the movie
and the story is a complete breakdown. Despite good acting from Depp,
this movie is not a real "pirate movie". This is not Treasure Island,
it's a mix of Disneys fairy - tales and pirate movies.

******
21 January 2005
10
i do not know why all of you people are putting pirates of the
Caribbean down it was a fantastic film and i can not wait for the
second one Johnny, Orlando, Keira,Geoffrey and Jack Davenport were all
fantastic it was shot in a fantastic place, great scripts great jokes
and all together a great film.Johnny Depps wonderful drunk kind of pirate look went great with his
funny walk (inspired by Keith Richards (rolling stones))Orlando Bloom's brave yet caring character went really well he was the
hero with great looks and great talentKeira Knightly is so young and so beautiful her character of the damsel
in distress but also shows that she can really kick buttGeoffrey Rush's Character of the cold hearted and cold blooded Captain
Barbossa suited him well with his witty lines and great monkey.Jack Davenport's character of Commodore Norrington with the brave and
maybe a little romantic at heart.

******
16 January 2005
10
I thought that Pirates of the Caribbean was a great movie. i thought
Johnny Depp was great as the sexy captain Jack Sparrow. I cant wait
till the 2nd part of this story comes out to see more of Johnny and
Orlando. The computer graphics were great, they really made the damned
crew come to life. Johnny Depp was the best man to cast as Captain Jack
Sparrow, he really grabs the character and brings him to life. The
action sequences in the movie were extravagant, how Orlando and Johnny
danced around sword fighting and the visual effects of battle between
two 18th century battle ships. This is definitely the kind of movie
that brings the whole family together and has viewers asking for more.

******
15 January 2005
9
Pirates of the Caribbean (The Curse of the Black Pearl) is about a
governor's family who find o boy in the water when they are out whit
their boat. The daughter of the governor is finding that the boy wear a
pirate-necklace and she take it. When the daughter (Elizabeth) is
older, she gets taken by some evil pirates. She tells them her name is
Elizabeth Turner. But it isn't. Turner is the name of the boy her
family find in the water, some years ago. The boy, Will, doesn't know
he is a pirate and now he is a friend of Elizabeth and her family. The
evil pirates, think Elizabet is a pirate, because she is named Turner.
They are taking her to a cave, together with the necklace and there
they are going to take some of her blood and they are going to cancel a
curse that rest over the evil pirates. But it doesn't work. So now they
know that Elizabeth is not the right human to take blood from, she is
not the daughter of the Turner (the father of Will Turner). Now they
start searching after the pirate who can cancel the curse. Will Turner,
who's working as a smith in the town where Elizabeth lives, meet Jack
Sparrow one day. Jack is a pirate too, and they take a ship and go away
to look after Elizabeth. On the ship Jack tells Will that he is a
pirate too, but Will isn't believe him at first. But afterward he
recognize that its true. Jack and Will goes out on a big adventure, and
Will is prepared to die to find Elizabeth, and save her..I think the film is a good film. You can see it in nearly every ages
and its both funny and exciting. The actors is very good in acting, and
of course it makes the film been better. This movie is definitely worth
to see!

******
18 August 2005
1
Simply said: no plot at all. What's happening? Depp is ridiculous in
his acting. Anyone calling this humor, should think better. Full of
improbabilities. The movie jumps from one topic to the next without any
logical sequence. The characters are not properly developed. Keira is
excellent, but cannot save this non-product. You expect a pirate movie
- not necessarily full of romance, but this film lacks any trace of it.
For instance: if you don't love Norrington, who then do you really
love? A writer could do better than this. The movie is definitely not
based on Disney's P. of the C. Anyone doubting that should go and visit
the Real Pirates at Disneyland. I saw some bad movies, but this one
beats a lot of them.

******
1 April 2005
1
It's so bad, i'm not even going to bother wasting any time on this.Suffice to say, the dialogue is forgettable, Johnny Depp acts drunk for
2 hours+ and he got an Oscar nomination????? Orlando bloom is flat and
monotonous, and keira is just the eye candy. Plus, the movie does'nt
seem to end, EVER!!!! It just goes on and on being smug and thinking
it's funny. I guarantee people will look back on this film in a few
years saying "what the hell was i thinking?" If you are over the age of
21 than there are good odds that you will not, i repeat WILL NOT enjoy
this film.When i heard of POTC, i was expecting something witty, adventurous,
surprising, romantic, exciting and full of great characters. Something
along the lines of The Princess Bride but with a huge budget. But,
instead we got this twaddle. A film that did well in America but
comparative poorly everywhere else. I've learnt my lesson now. I'm not
going to watch a film if it is doing well in America and just okay
everywhere else. Don't get me wrong, i love America, but sometimes i
have to wonder at the intellect of it's youth! (meet the fockers made
$277m in America and only $113 in the rest of the world. Need i say
more?) Another thing i will do before i go and see a film is look it up
on IMDb and see who the writers are and who the directors are. If you
don't like their previous work, you probably won't like their new film.What has happened to Hollywood. It seems to me that 1999 was the last
great year of Hollywood with original ground breaking movies like The
Matrix, The Sixth Sense, The Green Mile, Toy Story 2 etc.But i guess, now with dvds, Hollywood producers know that if a movie
sucks at the box office, it will find an audience on DVD and eventually
make it's money back. I guess thats why they'll give the go ahead with
any movie idea these days. I just heard that they wanted to make POTC
back in the 1990's, but the script was rejected. 95% of the movies i've
seen in the last five years i hate. I officially hate Hollywood!!!

******
30 August 2003
1

The old pirate movies put this one to shame. The main couple is so
dislikable with babbling honorably sounding dialogue but without showing
one
shred of goodness that you expect in a pirate movie. This is also
reflected
in the script, which makes them act as if with good intentions, but when
you
reflect, only to make them look good. Naturally the end is incredibly
cheesy, events without motivation, impossible action, and quite good
special
effects and big breasts to keep the eye interested.

******
11 September 2003
1

While the effects were slightly admirable, this movie made virtually no
impression on me.  I don't really remember the names of the characters,
let
alone why they did or felt what they did.  I never could figure out why
people kept getting into sword fights and shooting at skeletons they
couldn't kill.  Wouldn't you run away if you shot some guy in the head and
he just shook it off laughing?  Clearly nobody in this film caught on.
Overall, I was not entertained.  It wasn't even so bad it was
funny.

******
16 September 2008
8
Many many years ago, the stories of pirates died in Hollywood, the
interest and freshness just left it, and the name of swashbuckling
piracy gathered dust in a box on a shelf in the back of a closet. Then,
in 2003, Jerry Bruckheimer found the old box, dusted it off and said to
himself "Hey I could use this!" And use it, he did. With an all-star
cast and the best crew in town, Jerry set out to do the unthinkable,
resurrect the pirate name. Many people, upon seeing the footage-less
teaser trailer thought the film would be so bad it would be a joke, but
the director, Gore Verbinki proved them all wrong. Through jolly
musical themes, a surprisingly creepy plot, a fantastic cast, and
awesome bits of nothing-but-fun action, Pirates of the Caribbean
successfully leaves the viewer stunned, and wanting more (which, they
brought, twice). If you liked Transformers, Night at the Musiem you
will probably like this movie.

******
6 September 2008
8
Pirates of the Caribbean - The Curse of the Black Pearl is not only the
best pirate movie you'll ever see, it's also one highly entertaining
and enjoyable film.The acting is great all around. Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow is
so crazy and comedic, he's destined to be remembered for that role for
a very long time. Orlando Bloom is very good, as well as the beautiful
Keira Knightley. Geoffrey Rush is also evil and grand as Captain
Barbosa.The score is okay. It certainly can sweep and have some soaring
romantic cues, however, it's very redundant. I only recommend it to
collectors and fans.The ghost pirates provide for some amazing CG sequences, and are the
high points in the film -- yet, Sparrow's first couple minutes on
screen is the funniest and most brilliant part of the picture.The writing is very good, though there's many points in the film that
could've used a rewrite or two, as thing's become confusing, silly, and
improbable. Gore Verbinski's direction is nicely done, though is highly
unnoticeable with all the bombast going around.All in all, with some ridiculously funny characters and moments, as
well as some jaw-dropping visual effects, and a cool story, The Curse
of the Black Pearl is a great family film. I highly recommend it.

******
7 August 2008
8
This is a fun, swashbuckling, exciting, well-acted, well-plotted,
obsessive and dramatic film, good for grown-ups and teens. Before you
start watching this, remember that this is not for the faint-hearted.Captain Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp), Will Turner (Orlando Bloom) and
Elizabeth Swan (Keira Knightley) are the stars of this pirate film, all
with very different personalities and good acting. Captain Jack
Sparrow, in this film, has been a pirate for some time - and is very
good at it. He leads the film on with his daring deeds, plunders and
sword-play. Will Turner's character has the most surprises. He is
thought to be a humble blacksmith, but instead he turns out to be a
good swordsman and later, a good pirate. Elizabeth Swan is the
governor's daughter, but soon it turns out that she is captured by
pirates. She is very firm, brave and is not the kind of person to give
up. Though she has grown up good and posh, it seems she has a bit of
pirate in her too...I'll save most of the plot as a surprise for you, but be prepared for a
little bit of gore (but not a great amount) and some rather scary
skeletons (depending on how you see them).I like this film because of the actors, the adventures, the lines from
the characters, the plot and the way this was made. There are some very
good graphics here which work incredibly well (sometimes a little too
well).I recommend this film to people who are not too scared by action and
just that little bit of horror and who like funny bits in action films
as well. Enjoy "Pirates of the Caribbean"! :-)

******
26 March 2008
8
This swash-buckling tale follows the quest of Captain Jack Sparrow, a
savvy pirate, and Will Turner, a resourceful blacksmith, as they search
for Elizabeth Swann. Elizabeth, the daughter of the governor and the
love of Will's life, has been kidnapped by the feared Captain Barbossa.
Little do they know, but the fierce and clever Barbossa has been
cursed. He, along with his large crew, are under an ancient curse,
doomed for eternity to neither live, nor die. That is, unless a blood
sacrifice is made. Full of edge-of-the-seat action and swashbuckling
adventures, this is a movie you won't want to miss! this is movie good
i guess.not my favorite but some scenes are really funny and skeletons
are made terribly good.i recommend it.

******
22 July 2006
10
When I watched the movie for the first time, I really loved it right
away. Maybe those gorgeous boys like Orlando and Johnny help a little
bit ;), but even so this movie is funny, exciting and so on, in short:
fantastic! Even now after watching him almost 10 times I still can't
get enough of it! Johnny is really perfect for the role as jack,
actually the whole cast is magnificent! If you haven't seem him yet,I
would recommend you to drop everything, rent the DVD and make yourself
comfortable on the sofa! You'll gonna love it! In a few days Dead man's
chest will be out in my country, I'm really looking forward to see him!
Let's hope he will be as good as the first one! (I'm from Belgium so
excuse me for my not so great English =) )

******
18 July 2006
10
Wow... i love this film, its just amazing! The actors, effects, the
stunts. The list goes on! And not to mention the to hottest pirates
ever! Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom! Johnny's hotter though. No one
else could have played Jack Sparrow and pulled it off but Johnny, hes
just brilliant! Hes eccentric, mischievous... hes a swashbuckling
pirate. And his costume! So unique and new. He is the most talented
actor of our generation. All of the sets and fight scenes were superb
and so well in detail and the other pirates looked like what you would
imagine that pirates of that time would look like, with their teeth all
dirty and nasty. This movie is outstanding and so is the second
pirates... I would say Dead Mans Chest is better than this one. But
this movie is hard to top!

******
15 May 2006
10
I heard it was pretty good... I thought it was awesome, and it is still
may favorite movie of all time. I am a couch potato, (NOT FAT!)I always
watch movies or TV.DON'T forget! The 2nd one comes out July 7th!!! I can't wait! my 13
year old body is going to explode!!!!! YAAAAYYY!!!Orlando Bloom was awesome, As was Kiera Knightly and Jhonny Depp. I'm
sure that the second one will show much promise.I especially loved the part where Jack got stabbed and fell into the
moonlight in the cave, only to be discovered that he had stolen a coin,
acquiring the curse... And then, fighting with superior skill, throwing
it to Will, who dropped it in the chest and broke the curse.
Absolutely. I loved it... I cheered Jack on...he he... I WAS 10!!!
anyway, enjoy!!!

******
6 January 2005
8
Very good action epic from the Caribbean.After seeing the preview I was expecting a "lets make a movie for the
sake of it" mentality with lots of special effects. I was somewhat
surprised when I actually found it to be quite an entertaining and easy
to watch film.I was also very impressed with the effects, but especially the skeletal
effects (believable without being gory). Johnny Depp's grasp of "Jack Sparrow" is to be commended however I feel
he was let down by the lacking and somewhat forced performances of two
other characters. It is for this reason alone I give this movie an 8
instead of the elusive 10.Interesting story with interesting characters, whats not to like?

******
29 March 2006
5
Like musicals, the pirate movie fell a little into oblivion these last
years. There were endeavors to revive it but ended either in artistic
failure. "Pirates" (1986) by Roman Polanski enters this category, a
project whose preparation was long and arduous and in the end, it was a
very impersonal amount and Polanski's absolute nadir of his career with
the desultory "What?" (1972). Then, "Cutthroat Island" (1995) was a
contender for the genre but ended in a financial fiasco. Nearly a
decade later, Gore Verbinski with whom, a good majority of cine buffs
had unearthed in him palpable skills in directing with the chilling
"the Ring" (2002) and under the command of the Disney firm embarked on
a new ship. Direction: the pirate island with the well-intentioned will
to restore once for all the reputation of the pirate movie.
Unfortunately, he didn't arrive at the end of his trip. His ship fell
through. It was a profitable blockbuster for the mighty producer Jerry
Bruckheimer who once again lined his pockets. Artistically, well let's
be as nice as possible and it will be hard because I had relied on the
director of "the Ring" to rejuvenate the pirate movie and to deliver a
solid entertaining film. My hopes were blighted.It was maybe a mistake to have entrusted him a big-budget film. He
seems to have been dwarfed by Bruckheimer's omnipotence. However the
latter's trademark is present in virtually each shot, each image of the
venture and there's nothing wrong about it: exotic landscapes, lush
scenery, lavish costumes, grand score, a whiff of epic movie, pursuits
galore, naval engagements, a dash of fight and fusillades sequences and
of course, perhaps the indispensable element: swashbuckler which was a
specialty of French cinema in the sixties, helped by the unparalleled
Jean Marais. There was everything in the same package which brought out
a conducive odor to entice and charm the greatest number of viewers.Alas! "Pirates of the Caribbean: the Curse of the Black Pearl" is
partly plagued by a derivative directing which can't live up to the
enormous means and budget the film had at its disposal. Verbinski had
been more inspired with "the Ring". However, one can feel a buoyant
will from Verbinski to film his story. It's true, there's a perennial
humor difficult to resist, fast-paced action. There were also visible
efforts on the costumes and scenery. Everything to inspire a good
amount to dream, liberty to the audience. But Verbinski sedately shoots
Jack Sparrow (Johnny Depp) and Will Turner (Orlando Bloom)'s adventure
to find again Elizabeth (Keira Knightley) and in the end, the whole
smells the reheated. The movie also could have gained by being
curtailed of about half an hour.Verbinski's vehicle is also handicapped by its scenario and it's
perhaps what hampers most the success of the film. "The Ring" had a
quite strong screenplay in store but here, it's a snap, slick one. Yes,
there are some neat twists to keep the audience interested until the
tail end but it also encapsulates major, unacceptable drawbacks which
are nonsensical in the story as a whole. So, the malicious pirates took
Elizabeth hostage to help them to find a treasure which would make them
human beings again (at night, they turn into living dead) but isn't it
an excellent opportunity for them to reinforce and establish their
power? No, instead they want to become mortal, flesh and blood men
again. Then, in the first minutes of the film, after Elizabeth took
Will in, she's looking at the sea and as the mist clears away, she can
see a pirate ship because of the black flag. The pirate ship is close
enough to enable the crew on board to see Elizabeth's ship, so why
isn't there a naval engagement? It's also hard to swallow the story of
Will's father and the scenarists could have found a better and less
far-fetched way to make Depp and Knightley meet. The latter wears a
dress with a more than fitted waist and because of this, she falls
(from a high height) into the sea (you have to see the sequence to
understand it and to realize how ludicrous it is). But fortunately,
Depp was in the surroundings... you can guess the rest. There's also
some filler in the scenario (when Depp and Knightley are on the desert
island).The actors partially redeem the whole. Johnny Depp plays his game well.
His mix of gravity and mockery spices up the story. Geoffrey Rush also
takes the lion's share about the quality of the acting. But Orlando
Bloom delivers a rather wooden acting and Keira Knightley doesn't
really display skills of thespian."Pirates of the Carabbean: the Curse of the Black Pearl" is plagued by
a shoddy story which should have been more stringent. There are also
flashy special effects and a mundane directing. To some extent, some
qualities of "the Ring" which had contributed in cementing its stance
of winner have turned into drawbacks here. Once again, there's no
accounting for taste but this blockbuster isn't the guarantee of a
quality entertaining movie. But the majority of the audience doesn't
seem to have this problem. A sequel will reach the streets this summer.
Will it be worthwhile?

******
29 April 2005
10
Arr! Ye should see Pirates of the Caribbean once or twice ye swobs! And
git ready for the delightful sequel to the movie, which is coming out
in June 2006! I can't wait for that movie! But can ye stand the long
and perilous journey of awaiting the movie? I would hope so! Keep
sailing ye ship mates! Keep on sailing ye ship mates!-Sean P. at St. Charles--Summer is ALMOST here! I can't wait to enter High School!--"You are, without a doubt, the worst pirate I have ever heard of,"
Commodore Norrington-"You don't know what this is, do ya?" Captain Barbossa

******
10 October 2006
4
First off, having a movie based on a Disney ride seemed ridiculous.
Second, having Johnny Depp and Orlando Bloom together in a movie seemed
terrible. The outcome? A painful 2 hours I'll never get back. The movie
doesn't even have a pirate theme. There's no stealing, killing,
drinking, etc. Just fighting off fake CGI skeletons on a stupid ship. I
don't know how this garbage made it to the top 250 list. The cheesy
dialogue, dull action scenes, cardboard acting, lame use of CGI, and
the ludicrous plot made this as one of the worst movies I've ever seen.
I'm also beginning to think this is a total chick-flick, since the only
people who watch it are peppy girls who drool over Depp's fake look in
the movie.

******
18 January 2004
1

The fact this film is 18th in the all time list
leaves me despairing for the future of mankindMaybe watching it on dvd is not the best place
to grasp the cinematics?!??! but the whole film
I have just sat through stunk so bad I needed a
close peg just to get to the creditsThe female lead was so poor I laughed everytime
she said a word..Johhny Depp ..the man deserves an Oscar for keeping up.......
or should I say (Hamming up) the Keith Richards
impersonation for 2 hours of this nonsense or should
that read NO SENSE ..the script sloshed about more
than the Black Pearl in a force 10..Okay its a lightweight romp , The Mummy on the high seas
with a third rate Gladiator score and a plot with as many holes as the
Black
Pearls main mast .Maybe I should have just suspended my senses and put away my brain like
all
the teen dummys who made this ropey rubbish $650m ...no sorry I wont...1
out 10!

******
22 December 2003
1

There has been so much hype about this film, but in reality (well, in my
opinion anyway) it is seriously bad.
Let me explain myself...Firstly, Johnny Depp, who everyone thinks has given some career-defining
performance, simply hops around dressed as a woman and makes cliched little
comments that really grate.
Secondly, Depp and Bloom's swordfight near the beginning of the film is
horrifically dull. They spend the first few minutes exchanging limp jibes
(physical and verbal) walking indifferently around the set... one is left
half-asleep. I know the action comes later, but this dull, empty screen-time
is unusual for Disney.
But the most laughable element of the film (so far) is this absolutely
ridiculous idea that between the ragtag, thieving bunch that pirates were,
there existed a 'code of honour'. We see in the film one of the characters
asking not to be killed because, according to 'the code', she has the right
to 'Parley' and can be saved from death and have a nice chat with the
captain instead. When the captain later tries to distance himself from this
and says that the code is 'less rules...more a set of guidelines' I was
crying into my chips. This is Final Destination-quality
craziness.Anyway...just thought you should all know this film really ain't that
great.

******
12 August 2003
1

I can't express how much I hate this movie. To start:1)Man the sword fights sucked. Boring, no one hurts, we know who's gonna
win. This movie is rated PG-13 not PG. Throw some suspense into it god
dammit.2)The story is dull. The storyline is so unoriginal and again
predictable.
If you know what's gonna happen, what's the fun in that? I mean come on,
throw in some surprises.3)People love it. I hate that anyone even likes it. . .that it's in the
top
250. They give it a 10 because it was good. But there are better
blockbusters, greater movies that get no recognition.4)It tries to have class. But it doesn't; it is actually
brainless.OK, so Johnny Depp was good, wow, how exciting. People are starting to
love
him for his role in this crapfest (no names mentioned).My rating: 0 out of 10. But see it as you're bound to disagree with
me.

******
13 January 2004
1

The movie, while it has an engaging start, quickly falls apart.  The
discovery of immortal ghost pirates whose appearance changes with
moonlight
is too ridiculous.  By the end of the movie, my friend and I were turning
to
each other and shaking our heads in shame.  Not only was it unbelievable
that the movie could have received such great reviews but that we paid to
see it.  If you must watch it, do so while inebriated.

******
12 May 2004
1

The Pirates of the Caribbean the curse of the black pearl, is  a very good
film. Everything in this film is quite outstanding, but lets face it, people
are starting to get over obsessed with this film and calling it "The best".
I don't think it deserves to be in the TOP 250, and in a better number than
IN America, Henry the Va and 21 Grams. Johnny Depp's performance is very
good, funny and realistic, however, it didn't deserved an Oscar nomination.
The OSCARS should pick the best performances for the nomination, but
Johnny's performance was not that great. Great visuals, a nice interesting
story, good performances, good make up, but it is still and will be another
blockbuster film. 7.56/100

******
9 September 2010
8
An eccentric pirate (Johnny Depp) rushes to the rescue when the British
governor's daughter (Keira Knightley) is kidnapped by his former
shipmates. The film was nominated for five Academy Awards, including
Best Actor for Depp.Pirates Of The Caribbean: The Curse Of The Black Pearl is an enjoyable
action adventure, based on a Disney theme-park ride, that barely has a
coherent plot but still hits the spot - especially as Depp's Jack
Sparrow, in this first film of the franchise, has the advantage of
surprise. His mascara-lidded, swaggering, cockney pirate, a rock star
by any other name, is a truly original creation.

******
18 December 2007
10
I find this movie brilliant, a true work of art. And the same applies
to sequels as well. Unfortunately many people are totally unable to see
past their stereotypes (or are just plain dumb), which is the sole
reason for so many negative or subtly negative reviews. 'Oh, it's
Disney? Based on a ride? 5/10 then', 'Not written/directed by someone
famous? 5/10', 'I can't get what it's about... hmm... 5/10 for J.D.'
And so on, and so on.In fact, "Pirates" is a movie with meaning, not only with much action.
There are many action scenes, sure. But it's also highly symbolic
(whether it was intended or not). I'll give just a couple of examples:***SPOILERS BELOW*** Jack's arrival to Port Royal on the mast of a sinking boat. Can anyone
say something like this never happened to him in real life, even if it
wasn't that spectacular? Then Jack has to bribe a customs officer so
that his name isn't mentioned in records and right after that he steals
a small money-pouch. There're people walking around but the theft seems
to go unnoticed. This isn't illogical as it may seem. Or at least it's
not any more illogical than our society where all people steal from
each other in more or less obvious ways and everyone pretends to notice
nothing.Likewise, Jack's ship - Black Pearl - is a metaphor of freedom. (When
it's first mentioned there's funny guards' conversation about 'is it
real or not' and 'can any ship with black sails be the Pearl'. The
Pearl is elusive, 'nigh uncatchable'. It hardly brought Jack anything
but trouble, not to mention the price he had to pay for getting it. Yet
he settles for no other ship.) I could mention more of such interesting
ideas (for eyes to see that can), but don't want to spoil too much.Still people choose not to think. Indeed, why to make your brain work
when you can easily criticize, that Will is a smith's apprentice
instead. (Actually to anyone familiar with mythology it does make sense
that a young hero is a smith's apprentice. And yes, I know why people
are against something that actually does make sense. But that's
off-topic here.) Bottomline: I loved pretty much everything about this movie and its
sequels. 10/10 from the heart.

******
16 September 2005
8
Based on a really popular attraction at the Disney theme parks in Paris
and Florida, this is a really good film from director Gore Verbinski
(Mousehunt, The Ring). A long while ago, a ship crew found a young boy
floating in the ocean, he later became a blacksmith. By the way, when
he was found as a kid, the young daughter of the ship to a necklace he
was wearing with a piece of Aztec gold. Now years on Will Turner
(Orlando Bloom) the blacksmith one day meets the man who knows about
the gold, and the pirates that seek it. Jack Sparrow (Oscar, BAFTA and
Golden Globe nominated Johnny Depp) and Will are now on the trail of
these pirates when they kidnap the daughter (with the gold), Elizabeth
Swann (Keira Knightley). The pirates are on the so-called cursed ship
called The Black Pearl, lead by Captain Barbossa (Geoffrey Rush).
Basically they want the piece of gold because it is the last one they
need to lift a curse off them. Also starring Jack Davenport as
Norrington, Jonathan Pryce as Governor Weatherby Swann, The Office's
Mackenzie Crook as Ragetti and Lee Arenberg as Pintel. It was nominated
for the Oscars for Best Makeup, Best Sound Editing, Best Sound Mixing
and Best Visual Effects, and it won the BAFTA for Best Make Up/Hair,
and it was nominated for Best Special Visual Effects, Best Costume
Design and Best Sound. Johnny Depp was number 22 on The 100 Greatest
Movie Stars, Orlando Bloom was number 17 (with Viggo Mortensen), and
Depp number 9 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, and Depp was number 2 on
The World's Greatest Actor, and Bloom was number 5 on The 50 Greatest
British Actors, Keira Knightley was number 9 on The 50 Greatest British
Actresses, and the film was number 4 on The 100 Greatest Family Films.
Very good!

******
11 October 2008
1
I was over my brother's house a few days ago and he made me watch this
movie because I had never seen it and I wish I never did.This movie was
really one of the most stupid and boring movies I have ever been
witness to.The plot I really can't get into, none of the characters I
think are believable as pirates.The other thing I didn't like was the
fact of long the beginning was I mean I about fell asleep in the
beginning.They should have never wasted their time making this piece of
crap, they should've just thrown the script. I've never seen the
sequels and I pray I never do for the fact that they will probably be
just as bad as the first.

******
26 December 2006
1
Well, I have to say, this movie was such an exciting experience!!!!! I
rented this one stormy night on DVD and boy, this movie was so
exciting!!!!! This movie, of course, is based on the theme park ride at
Disneyland and Disney World. I liked all the action and stuff in there;
it was awesome!!!!! I especially liked the bonus features, too: there
were the bloopers ("Is that a plane?????" - Johnny Depp heard a small
jet rocket by the ship), and of course, the excerpt from "Walt Disney
Presents," which I actually remembered seeing on the old Disney Channel
one night in 1998.Buuuuuut, there is a problem. (OH NO!!!!! is right!!!!!)This is a "BAD PERIOD" movie!!!!! That's right, for one, this movie
totally changed the way we go to the parks now!!!!! The ride was
changed to make it look like the movie now, and even worse, there are
rumors that the Tom Sawyer ride at Disneyland will go away with - get
this - a new ride based on this film!!!!! Plus, the worst part?????
IT'S RATED PG-13!!!!! Yes, you heard right!!!!! A "Disney" movie, given
such a controversial rating so that families can't see this or any
other movie in this series because it's too scary!!!!! So basically,
Disney now robs of its usual audience in the "Bad Period.""PIRATE DVDS OF THE EAST: THE CURSE OF THE MPAA'S FOCUS" is a film
that, while it appeals to us adults, JUST DOES NOT APPEAL TO
CHILDREN!!!!! Bad idea! -1000000/10 for making a grown company cry!!!!!

******
24 April 2006
1
Lots of action but overly long. Could have been cut by a half hour very
easily. Some interesting special effects but the characters are
difficult to relate to or really care about. Sheer fantasy that might
appeal to those who want some mindless escapism. There are better films
to spend your 140 minutes on. The special effects seem to be derivative
of other modern action or horror films like Matrix and The Mummy. Most
of the acting in this film is rather wooden and the actors seem to be
just going through the motions, hoping it will soon end. But it
doesn't. It just keeps going on and on and on. The musical score is the
best part of the film. It is hard to believe they are making a sequel
to this movie, but money talks. It was obviously a big hit and must
have brought in a ton of money at the box office. I will take a rain
check on the next installment.

******
6 June 2007
1
Now, here is my short opinion. This movie is so bad and so forgettable that at the time I'm writing
this I've already forgotten what it was all about and all I remember is
the bad taste it left in my mouth! Wow, how is it possible that such a
pile of crap, can have so many fans?!? It's just another mass product from the Hollywood conveyor belt. It has
no story, no character, nothing at all but hi-tech, expensive visuals!I haven't seen a good US movie made in the last 5-6 years! Dammit!Ye eek!Ye eek!Ye eek!Have a nice day!

******
6 July 2006
1
I found this to be one of the worst movies I have ever seen. Sword
fights generally are entertaining because the suspense that the
participants might get killed. But here, the participants are already
dead, so who cares? The fights go on and on and on...I realize that action movies often require the viewer to let go of
reality and just enjoy the mindless entertainment. But as hard as I
tried to be entertained, I kept finding the movie as thrilling as a
junior high ballet recital.The first part of the movie seemed promising, but it just went nowhere.
I find it hard to believe that Disney's money and talent couldn't come
up with something better than this...

******
17 December 2006
1
Naturally, computer graphics had to get in there --- pirates alone
could never be enough for the modern child. She has to have pirates who
are ghouls as well, so that the film is a messy hybrid of horror and
adventure.The combination of men who can't be killed fighting endlessly with
characters made of wood while a symphony orchestra goes crazy is
utterly tedious.It's so sad that worldwide youngsters subject to the American global
market have only this junk-food to consume on DVD.Throughout the whole deadening two and a half hours, there are about
five seconds of shots of the Caribbean. The picture might as well have
been shot in Disneyland.Johnny Depp is even more pathetic here than in his next role, The
Libertine, in which he played a sex-crazed poet who never touches a
woman throughout the whole film.His British accent, predictably, is a mess (as in The Libertine) and
his role in this film is to spend long periods in a cell while everyone
else gets on with it. The idea that he is some kind of commander of men
is ridiculous. He simply camps up the whole picture and makes a mockery
of it.Naturally, the plot is the most ludicrous imaginable, it's not even
worth discussing. Suffice it to say that it is full of holes you could
navigate a ship through.As for black people who populate the Caribbean, just two appear in this
picture: one a glimpsed female pirate captain (!), the other a glimpsed
huge stereotyped brute with a studded face and massive muscles. So,
take your pick: cheesy stereotype or politically correct cut-out. As
for the other millions who inhabit the Caribbean, they don't exist.If there was a scrap of history that validated this film as a nostalgic
romp, it might be excusable. But since it is a farrago of fantasy and
faux-fairytale, it is to be roundly condemned. Everyone who raves about
this film is doomed.

******
1 January 2007
10
This film starts off nice and calm with a young pretty gal looking out
over the ocean from the bow of an English Vessel with all its sails
blowing in the wind. This young girl is Keira Knightly, (Elizabeth
Swann) who notices someone is floating on a raft in the waters below
and summons help to rescue him; Elizabeth then proceeds to steel a
metal object from around his neck and never says a word about this
incident for many years in the future. The rescued young boy was Johnny
Depp (Jack Sparrow) who has a secret past relating to his father and
his associations with men on the seas who had Cross Bones and a Skelton
as their flag. There is plenty of sword crashing steel and creatures
resembling Draculas along with things you can not even imagine. Errold
Flynn would never be able to complete with Johnny Depp, but Errold was
good way back in the 1930's and 40's.

******
23 February 2005
1
The Lighting and color was OK in some areas but for the most part it
wasn't colorful enough and the lighting was underdone. There needed to
be more focus on shiny appearance of gold and classical cherry wood and
golden lighting.I remember some of the Disney stuff from the early 80's a picture book
in particular that features the dog holding the keys at a dungeon and a
massive cave system with beautifully illustrated treasure. This movie
was nowhere near the standard of that. It came off looking as synthetic
as the black pearl pirates in their ghost form.I'm all for CGI in movies but it was very poorly done in this movie,
some of the worst I've seen.I wanted this movie to take me to the place i remember from the picture
book I had as a kid unfortunately it failed miserably. Its such a shame
more effort wasn't put into the fine details

******
21 August 2004
1

Is this a story that inspires, captivates and entrances?  That's what it's
creators think it is.  And far too many gullible viewers think that this is
art.But what is great about it?  A little bit of swashbuckling action to begin
with, and nothing new.  Then the whole pursuit, cove, cave thing.  Not only
was the storyline descending into the abyss but so was the film.  Really,
what was all that cave foolishness worth?  Not my time.With the talent and the budget sunk into this project, 3/4 of the directors
alive today with a good writer in tow could have made this into a
movie!

******
10 September 2003
1

So my friend was like, "I really want to see this movie."  I fought it
and
lost.  So we went.  It was the most miserable two hours of my life.  What
trash!!!  Someone actually paid to make this piece of crap?  Bad acting,
stupid dialogue, labored plot.  Johnny Depp is now dead to me.  It was so
bad it can't even be analyzed.

******
23 August 2003
1

I gave it a 1 for the sole reason that I don't think this movie needs to
be
in the IMDB Top 250.It's a good enough movie.  Probably a 6 or a 7.But how many times has the plot of "girl wants to marry wonderful poor
guy
but father wants her to marry mediocre rich guy and wonderful poor guy
winds
up saving her" been done already?It's a nice movie with good special effects, and it's entertaining.  But
this movie with its plot shouldn't rank as one of the greatest movies
ever.

******
2 January 2005
1
What to say? Any person who likes action movies, should avoid this
films as cancer or Ebola. J. Depp is overacting all the film. Also,
with the exception of Jack Davenport and Geoffrie Rush, not any actor
or actress should act again. Is so terrible to see all the people
considering this one as a masterpiece, when they never see The Crimson
Pirate, and never give time to see the great heroes acted by Burt
Lancaster, Tony Curtis, Gene Kelly. All the movies in the present are
made by the same rule: put any thing you think all the mass will love.
Is terrible. Some goofs: when the Black Pearl show his flag, the flag
has aspect anti past (any artesan should see this fact). In some shot,
the principal actress show his finger nails, and are painted with pink
colour. In that time, that thing was impossible.

******
17 July 2004
1

Possible spoilers. I could only endure about an hour of this movie, before I walked out of
the room where I had been watching it with my family. Why? First, the
movie lacked a plot. It was strictly about the everyday lives of a
group of pirates, and had no extraordinary plot elements. Instead of
being a movie, it should have been made a sitcom. At least sitcoms ARE
generally about the everyday lives of a person or group of people.
Movies should have something more. Secondly, this was one of the most monotonous movies I have ever seen.
Most of the hour that I watched was the same dialogue, paraphrases over
and over: "I'm a pirate." "Are you a pirate?" "Is he a pirate?" Hearing
the same word in ALMOST EVERY SENTENCE grew very tiresome after an
hour. Lastly, constantly hearing the word "pirate" was only half of the
problem with the dialogue. Much of it was JUST PLAIN CHEESY. I could
not see how any educated writers could have come up with the dialogue
that was used in this movie. If you want matching corny plot and
dialogue, Pirates of the Caribbean is the right movie for you.


******
9 July 2003
1

How sad.  
I was so looking forward to this movie.  I love Pirate
Lore.
From the director of that smash hit The Mexican, this movie
sucked.
It should have gotten more Disney treatment, or none at
all.
The story was so shallow, the characters were so shallow, that it would have
maybe been a terribly entertaining film for the kids, but the movie was too
dark and violent for the little ones.  I thought Depp would work wonders
with this, but the script was so inane.
There wasn't enough meat for the adults.  I didn't care at all about any of
the characters.  I kept wating to hear "Ding, please turn the page." Some nice moments, but just a few.  Over all, a let down.
Rent the Musketeer for swordplay, or rent Mutiny for munity.
As for pirates, even the Pirate Movie starring Kristie McNichol was more
engaging than this.  And it was a musical.

******
26 December 2003
1

I had misgivings when I learned this was a Disney production and I should
have let my instincts rule.For me, five words summed it all up "A waste of my time". If I'd sat
through
the whole movie, then I'd have written "A colossal waste of
time".Perhaps it's an age thing but for the life of me I couldn't fathom the
demographics of this movie.I have to add that Johnny Depp is one of my favorite actors as a rule but
this role.....Bjs

******
31 December 2003
1

Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl in My opinion is
not
one of the greatest movies of all time. Sure, it has a huge budget, a
different cast (which included Johnny Depp, Geoffrey Rush, Orlando Bloom,
Keira Knightley, and Jonathan Pryce!), great special effects, and a
lengthy
two hour plus run time but this film never did anything for Me and here
are
the reasons why it didn't.The following is in My opinion.1. Johnny Depp is a good actor but I just didn't know what to think of his
character whether I should like him, hate him, or feel sorry for
him.2. I'm an action movie nut and there was a lot of action but the action
just
wasn't exciting enough that its so great it'll be one of the films I'll
see
over and over. In other words nothing special or spectacular happened in
this one.3. The music by up coming composer Klaus Badelt was ok but most of it was
just recycled of Hans Zimmer's one of a kind score from the greatest epic
called Gladiator (2000)! Badelt composed an excellent score for the Time
Machine and retooled the music and this is what we get for this?
Why?4. Some of the things that happened in the film was supposed to be funny
but
I didn't think it was and I didn't think the comedy stuff was needed.5. The late great Trevor Goddard had a brief role in this movie and I
believe it was his last one. Why give an actor with an incredible muscular
build, a unique accent, and amazing talent a scene where it makes him look
like a complete joke?You may be thinking why I am saying this. How can I say this about a movie
that is so high in fame and stature? I am just saying how I feel about the
film. The film had all the potential and everything going for it but it
just
didn't do it. I wanted to like the movie but it never changed. I don't
agree
about it being on the IMDb's Top 250: #235! In fact, I think it shouldn't
even be on the list. There are many other films that deserve to be on the
list more than this film! You mean to tell Me that this is on the same
list
with The Lord of the Rings Trilogy? Plus there are many more movies with
much more excitement similar to this movie like the Planet of the Apes
(2001), The Mummy, and The Mummy Returns, and Cutthroat Island! In My
opinion Pirates of the Caribbean's competion The Hulk and Terminator 3:
Rise
of the Machines was so much better and exciting in My opinion! Anyway I
feel
if you wanted to watch a much more epic pirate movie instead see Cutthroat
Island, its much more exciting! I hate to say this but Pirates of the
Caribbean is awfully dull, boring, uninteresting, uninspiring, it has no
depth, and it should be avoided like a flood!

******
11 June 2004
1

Terrible, repelling and completely unwatchable. It makes the first Mummy
look like a masterpiece. Even the visual effects are terrible and ugly to
look at. And Johnny Depp's performance was bad in every way. Just because
you manage to speak in a way that is hard to understand does not mean it is
good acting. What was the Academy thinking have they completely lost their
mind. As much as I thought Return of the King was ridiculously overrated
after this abomination I am starting to respect it. After such a bad decade
of bad and unoriginal movies people must have broken critical fuse and
mistaken this atrocity for a great movie. When will James Cameron finally
start making movies and resurrect Cinema. A very deserving 1 out of
10.

******
30 January 2005
1
This movie is among the most utterly overrated piles of garbage I have
ever seen. Containing one of the most linear plots, Pirates seeks to
appeal to the most basic of minds, while most people of average or
better intelligence hope their feet fall asleep so they have something
to take their minds off of the movie. I had no intention of ever seeing
this movie, but my sister wanted it (for what reason I do not know) so
I got it for her for her birthday and decided to watch it. I can
honestly say that I would have felt better burning the $10 I spent on
it and watching the pretty flame for a few seconds. Action movies are
inherently bad, but this one shines among the worst of them.This is the type of movie that would keep President Bush contented for
hours, but if you want to see a real movie that will tickle your
senses, I suggest you pick up Shawshank Redemption or Donnie Darko.

******
9 April 2004
1

im pretty surprised that this is actually on the top 250 list, and ahead
of
some pretty impressive films.I was dissapointed to say the least, when putting the disc in the dvd i
thought to myself "a good ol fashioned, pirate ghost tale, marvelous"....
ah
no... suffice to say the peak was when i got a chuckle out of the scene
where you see Depp standing tall and proud as he jumps down on what you
expect to be a massive ship but turns out to be a dinky sailboat. That was
about 5 minutes into the movie, it all went down from there. It was just
boring to me, pirates who were cursed and now need the blood of a certain
fellow to lift it, whoooo. Orlando Bloom was annoying, I can understand
pre
teenage girls waving their "Potc" flags because hes oh so hot(those would
be
the imdb users with reviews like, "omigawd this is like tha best movie
EVER,
orlando bloom rules!!!111".My confirmation came when my sweet mother, who never has a bad word to say
about anyone or anything proclaimed, "it wasnt really good", when an hour
rolled around we had both lost all interest and i was reading comic books,
glancing at the tv now and then to see if anything interesting pops up. It
didnt. Finally, I fell asleep.3/10

******
12 July 2006
1
There were only little things to like about this film, like the humor.
And even the humor was to be found in the sections 'All Been Done
Before' and 'Unoriginal?? What're You Talking About??!'
(Cough)*Sarcasm*(Cough) The film was annoying, also because there were
a lot of people who died, but only extra's, no one really important.Maybe kids like it and love it, but this is not a pirate-movie. At
least Jack Sparrow is not a pirate; Johnny Depp is a great actor, but
the story makes him completely unbelievable, if he'd be a real pirate,
he'd be much more of a bad-ass.There should be no argue about tastes, but I hate to see this movie to
be so high rated!

******
15 August 2005
1
Personally, I found this film to be a great disappointment. I am
something of a history nut and so was disappointed by the amount of
inaccuracy of the movie. For example:1) Every cannonball in the movie exploded, yet they were all fired from
long guns and so would just have been lumps of metal hurtling through
the air.2) Norrington had a huge ceremonial promotion to commodore. A commodore
was not a permanent rank. It was simply a way of distinguishing between
a captain who had been given /temporary/ command of a squadron and one
who had not.3) There were never enough sailors on any of the ships. Most ships of
that era had literally hundreds of men aboard. The Black Pearl would
have had at least 100 as a skeleton crew (no pun intended) and they
would not have been able to use the guns or mount any sort of assault.
It would have a full complement of something like 500, if not more.4) All the sailors were bedecked in ridiculous uniforms. All of the
sailors seemed to be wearing their dress uniforms all the time, which
simply would not happen on any ship. As if this wasn't bad enough, some
of those who weren't marines were wearing red, which would make them an
anathema to all the other men in the ship.However, action-wise, the film is very good, though Depp does begin to
get on my nerves after a while.

******
19 January 2007
1
I went to see Pirates with the expectation that it would be a true
pirate movie along the lines of Captain Blood with Errol Flynn looking
like a man and Basil Rathbone as the perfect villain. I thought Johnny
Depp with all the eye makeup looked like a girl with a moustache and
acted too silly to be a real pirate. And the computer simulated scenes
took it into the realm of fantasy and more like the Disneyland ride it
was based on. I realize that, by today's standards, Captain Blood looks
campy but the famous sword fight along a spit of sand between Blood
(Flynn) and Captain Levasseur (Rathbone)stands as a Hollywood classic
which none of POTC comes near.

******
27 August 2003
1

This movie was absolutely horrible.  I want that 2 hours of my life back. 
It is extremely predictable and written by a formula.  Depp did his usual
strong performance, but I wonder if he actually read the script before
agreeing to do the movie.  My guess is that he was looking for a money maker
and the Disney logo spelled cash.  It must be expensive living in France. 
Even though Depp performed well, the persistent intentional head bobbing was
annoying.  It could have been understandable if there was anything
resembling a story.

******
20 August 2003
1

Disclaimer: I saw a moderately crappy cam-version with a crappy dub (50%
translation, 50% own creation).Most people seem to enjoy this flick and I guess that chances are that
you
will too. I saw it (better to say some parts of it) yesterday and to say
I
was disappointed is to say nothing. After about one hour my dad said he
can't bear it anymore and walked out. I followed him, but later returned,
since I had to kill time somehow. My mother and 19 y.o. sister moderately
enjoyed it (or may be just thought it would get better), but after less
than
two hours said they will watch it sometime later (read 'never') and
stopped
it.Well, my impression was that the movie was pretty stupid and cliche. May
be
not the worst script, but nothing to write home about. The acting was
either
over the top (Johnny Depp) or bland and boring (everyone else). There
might
have been some brilliant special effects that I missed on the cam-copy,
but
I doubt it. There was hardly any sea worth looking at, and everything
else
was taken out of the Hollywood library of generic effects.If you have nothing better to do, see it on the big screen, may be it
will
look cool (it probably won't). Don't pay much for the tickets,
though.

******
27 October 2003
1

this movie sucks , its way too long kind of boring and a very crappy
ending. the only thing that saved this movie was johnny depp . the only
reason
this movie made alot of money is because it was a ride at disneyland . WOW
,
that is so exciting , actually no it isnt this movie is the worst film i
have seen ever , god i want that 2 and a half hours of my life back , and
my
8 dollars , well all i have is 4 words:
i hate this movie

******
20 July 2003
1

Why have I read so many good reviews for this movie? This movie is bland
as
can be. Essentially this is a family/kids movie, but the special effects
would likely be too scary for young ones. This movie had two things going
for it:
1. Excellent special effects (gets slightly overused)
2. Johnny Depp (easily the best character)
The plot holes in this moving are amazing, and the characters are
completely
unbelievable. This movie should have a run time of 45 minutes, but instead
drags on with fight scenes that make no sense (see the movie to
understand).Simply put: only stupid people would like this movie, and I am suprised it
has an 8.1 rating (at the time of this post)

