******
19 February 2016
10
It puts a very different twist on a story that is rarely told. The film
is mostly focused on the events after the crucifixion and shown from
predominantly the side of the Romans. It is a faith-based film, but
could be enjoyed by non-believer as well, assuming they can remove the
stick from their butt for the 1 hr 47 minute run-time. Any faith-based
film will automatically get negative reviews and ratings from many non-
believers who will down vote it and even write a poor review based on
their intolerance to religion, but if you enjoy good cinema, this is a
must see. Don't let the IMDb ratings sway your choice to see it. It is
by far the best bible based film I have seen.

******
19 February 2016
10
I just came back from seeing Risen, and I have to say, I was actually
impressed. This is a very well made movie. They handled the biblical
story respectfully, while taking creative license in a way that
maintained the spirit and overall message of the gospel. To anyone else
considering making another film based on the bible, please take note of
this film. This is how it's done. No rock creatures to be found here.
Just a wonderful film that tells the story with excellence and dignity.
I absolutely loved this movie, and fought tears during the 2nd half. I
eventually lost that battle, and I heard other sniffles in the audience
as well. So be prepared. (By the way, someone please nominate that
Roman guard in tavern for an award.)

******
19 February 2016
10
Risen is a well done action movie with strong writing of an old story
in a fresh new way. Please don't waste your time picking apart the
theology. All direct quotes from the Bible were accurate and powerfully
depicted. It is a FICTIONAL account through the eyes of Pontius
Pilate's right hand man (Roman tribune) Clavis. No, Jesus and the
disciples did not hang out with a Roman after the resurrection. We all
know that. It deviates from the Biblical story to show a different
point of view and they do it graphically and with a great connection to
the audience. This movie pretty much picks up where "Passion of the Christ" left off.
They unabashedly told the story from the end of the crucifixion into
the full-on resurrection, into the ascension and traveled with Christ
into Galilee with the disciples all the way to the ascension. Somehow
it was not hokey or silly. They did it well. I highly recommend you go
see it while it is still in theaters. The scenery was beautiful.

******
19 February 2016
8
Risen is a fun movie, with many touching moments. It's faithful to the
original story of Jesus, but also completely different as the story of
a Roman Tribune commanded to find the body of Jesus to quell the new
messiah movement. Jesus is played by an excellent choice of actor, who
is less of a male model look than many movies. Fiennes is awesome as a
man who undergoes a life changing series of events. The basic plot and
conclusion of the film is simple yet profound, and should be
appreciated by believers and nonbelievers alike. The night I watched it
I dreamed about the movie all night, not something which normally
happens. The quality is above most faith-based films and is full of
action, humor, and inspiration for the whole family.

******
20 February 2016
8
With nothing else to see, I went, somewhat reluctantly, to see the new
Biblically inspired, movie, 'Risen' (which, as you can see, got good
reviews on IMDb). Ostensibly about the crucifixion and resurrection of
Christ, it's more a logical investigation imaginatively laid atop a
history lesson, a key miracle of the New Testament, and a logical
examination of rational thought challenged by inexplicable events. Told
from the perspective of a Roman Tribune sent to investigate how Jesus'
physical body disappeared from it's tomb, it's a story well told, seems
historically authentic, and I (a lapsed Catholic/agnostic/skeptic)
recommend it highly. It was also an interesting exercise in memory, as
I strained to remember what I remember from hours of Catechism, and
yearly celebrations of Good Friday, Easter, and the Feast of the
Assumption...which turned out to be...not much.There are parts which recall 'Life of Brian', it's a little bit long,
the disciples resemble the inhabitants of the hippie commune in 'Easy
Rider', Bartholomew is completely over the top, and the actor who plays
Christ is iffy. But, then again, he is tasked with the impossible role
of being man and God (just what expression would you choose if you
played Christ?) without descending into camp farce. All in all, he does
OK.Joseph Fiennes plays the Tribune with authenticity, honesty, and an
openness which allowed me to put myself in his place...how does a
rational man deal with fundamental challenges to his heretofore solid
as a rock, world? When do you surrender to faith when all the 'reason'
in the world suggests that reason has little to do with it all?It's a good movie, well worth seeing.

******
18 February 2016
7
With the most recent Biblical movies that Hollywood has come out with,
Noah and Exodus, the main complaint, at least from the Christian
viewer-base, was that they didn't stick to the accuracy of the Bible;
in this film they do - so it has that going for it, if you're a
Christian. At the top of the IMDb page it lists this movie as Action, Adventure,
and Drama; but in reality it's pretty much just drama. There is a 3
minute action sequence at the beginning and that is about it. It's not
bad that it's Drama, but it is a slower paced movie - I only point this
out because that is one of things I like to know when going into a
movie. The movie itself wasn't terribly exciting, but for the Christian
audience, who like to see portions of the Bible "brought to life", I
think it will find a decent viewer ship. That being said, if it's
Friday night and you're looking for a fun movie, then this probably
isn't it.Thankfully, this isn't another "God's Not Dead" where they smack you in
the face over and over again with how awesome Christians are and how
terrible atheists are - it basically just sticks to a fictional
storyline of what might have happened to a Roman centurion who is in
charge of finding the missing body. The bottom line is this movie is the very definition of "good" to me,
not bad, but not great...just good.

******
19 February 2016
8
For more than 100 years, stories of Jesus have been the topic of
movies. Many early works of cinema featured not only Jesus, but Moses,
Sampson, David, etc, but this film is quite different in that is
carries a much lighter tone than most faith-based productions. Sticking
to the basics of what is known from the Bible and other Jewish and
Roman historical accounts of the event, Risen lacks the pious and
pretentious nature many of the films in this same sub-genre contain.
Not quite cinematic per se or traditionally action-packed, the film has
relatively slow pacing but keeps it interesting by supplying
well-developed characters and simply the thrill of the original
man-hunt. Although the message of the Gospel is clearly stated and
shown in the movie, it does not come off as proselytizing. In many
ways, the central character is an everyman because it is fairly easy to
place yourself in his shoes--or sandals in this case--and imagine what
it must have been like to have been in charge of guarding Christ's tomb
and then having to answer for the disappearance. One thing puzzles me;
and that is Columbia Pictures' timing of this release. Honestly, it
makes more sense to have released it the weekend prior to Easter.
Anyway, I digress.A history and mystery in one! From either objective or subjective
points of view, this is my pick for the best "Jesus" film ever. And
yes, I am including the box office smash Passion of the Christ in that
assessment. But what makes this particular movie more receptive and
less controversial and other faith-based films in the past? Answer:
lack of pretense. Whether talking God's Not Dead or Passion of the
Christ, both films do not attempt to appeal to a broad audience. They
play on the court with the rest of the faith-based movies both good and
bad. Risen plays to the audience differently because it concentrates on
developing the realistic historic characters by pairing what is known
by way of Biblical or Jewish/Roman historic texts with logical
conclusions or using context clues to fill in the gaps. The writers did
an excellent job in developing the character of Clavius as someone with
whom many in the audience could identify because whether believers int
he resurrection or not, we have all questioned our various and
respective beliefs at one point or another and often look for answers
very much in the same way a detective solves a mystery.Unlike other films where the focus is either directly or indirectly on
Jesus, the focus of this film is primarily on the delicate political
landscape between the Jews and Romans and of course our protagonist
Clavius. However, this film uses the indirect approach to discover why
Jesus' was so special to his followers (and it still to this day). This
indirect approach is far more effective for speeding the Gospel message
than typical "Christian" films. Although this film is clearly about the
mystery surrounding the resurrection of Jesus in the background, the
foreground is a personal journey thus making it more of a historic film
than a "Christian" one, so to speak. Therefore, most anyone who enjoys
Roman or Jewish history will find something of interest in this film.
The relationship between the Romans and Jewish leadership is handled
very well. It shows the game the Romans had to play with the Jews in
order to keep peace in Jerusalem--especially because Caesar is arriving
soon and Pilate needs to show him that he has the Jews under control.The person of Jesus is also handled better than any other film I have
seen. He comes off as an average Joe--that is, an average Joe who can
heal lepers. But, he connects well with the audience and is very much
down to earth in his appearance and mannerisms. Sometimes it's hard to
understand why his disciples then and followers to this day would
choose to follow such a man, but this film makes it clear why. He
embodies love. On a lighter note, I've always found it funny that in
most historic/Biblical films, such as this one, most of the characters
speak with a British or transatlantic accent. Pretty sure that was not
the case back then. But, at the same time, it does not hinder the story
in any way. Although the film is a little slow and the pacing isn't
always executed well, over all, it keeps in line with the traditional
three-act plot structure and sufficiently supplies the audience with
the proper turning points. Risen also handles character development
very well. I really appreciate the development of not only Clavius but
also Pilate and Lucius as well. To an extent, we also see some
development in some of Jesus' disciples as well. At the end of the
movie, the characters in the story felt like real people, and that is a
remarkable achievement in this movie.Ordinarily, we don't see movies like this until Easter time. Even
though we are a month out from it, I feel that if you enjoy Biblical or
simply historic movies that are down-to-earth, written, acted, and
developed well that you will enjoy this movie. Traditionally, I am not
a fan of most faith-base movies because they are cheesy, pious, over
the top, or just executed poorly; however, I very much enjoyed this
film and hope you do too.

******
19 February 2016
10
Risen is a story about a Roman Centurion named Clavius who was assigned
by Pontius Pilate to participate in the killing of Jesus and later make
an investigation to the missing body of Yeshua.This film by director
and co-screenwriter Kevin Reynolds provides another story about the
resurrection that will provide interest to would-be viewers of the film
as it is told from the Roman point-of-view.It stars Joseph Fiennes in
the lead role as Clavius together with Tom Felton,Peter Firth and Cliff
Curtis.The story starts with the crucifixion of Yeshua with Clavius and the
Roman soldiers under his command being ordered by Pilate to restore
order in the big crowd,to kill the men crucified and bury them at the
end.After the crucified men died,Joseph of Arimathea appeared to them
was in charge to bury Yeshua in a tomb.Later,his men was assigned to
guard the tomb upon the request of Caiaphas.Days passed,Pilate once
again asked Clavius this time to investigate to locate missing body of
Yeshua.He began the investigation by asking followers of Christ,the
Roman soldiers who guarded the tomb as well as interviewing the apostle
Bartholomew.But in the process of the investigation,Clavius found
himself converting from being a Roman centurion to probably becoming an
apostle.The movie was definitely another great way of telling the
Resurrection.Although there can be no mistake about it that the
concluding part was obviously taken from the Bible,one can surely enjoy
it especially when we see the conversion of Clavius taking
place.Also,it was nice to see movies like this especially during the
Lenten season as we try to remind ourselves of the sacrifice made by
Jesus for our salvation as well as his rising from the dead for us to
remember how he conquered the world.

******
23 February 2016
7
Risen is a Biblical Drama/Adventure film that follows Roman Tribune
'Clavius' (Joseph Fiennes) who is tasked with investigating the
disappearance of the body of 'Jesus of Nazareth', who has been rumoured
to have resurrected. This movie was a very pleasant surprise as i went
into it expecting just an average film about a story that has been
represented on the big screen many many times, but i got a very
interesting, and dramatic film that had me hooked right to the very
end. Many of these biblical films do touch on many of the same beats,
but this film approached the story in some interesting ways and offered
enough new to differentiate it from the others. The film featured some
excellent/very good and convincing performances, but also had one or
two miscasts. The story progressed at a steady pace for most of the
film making it very easy to follow, and the film was also accompanied
by a pretty good soundtrack that i did not expect at all. One thing this film did with its story that really worked in its favour
was tell the story through the eyes of a non-believer, and that added
so much more to the story and more interest in the film. This added
element let the story take turns that you wouldn't get from just an
average biblical film and was great to see. The film also 'looked' very
good in terms of the scenery and cinematography, it was very subdued
and didn't really have grand set pieces and scenery that were obviously
CGI. This really helped the film seem very grounded and i couldn't be
distracted by any obvious CGI. I have to say that i enjoyed the last 2/3 of the film much more than
the first 1/3. I felt that there were some pretty big pacing issues in
the beginning where it either felt like it was progressing too slow or
it was moving too fast. There was a lot of jumping through time and
skipping over quite a few scenes, and it was quite jarring at times.
But as the story developed it quickly flowed at a very steady pace for
the rest of the film and i quickly forgave it for its earlier blunders.
In terms of performance, Joseph Fiennes was fantastic in the film as
'Clavius', he was the standout in the film and put in a very convincing
and engaging performance that carried the film, especially early on.
There were also good performances from other side-characters who
elevated the film especially later on, but they weren't all good. Peter
Firth who was cast as 'Pontius Pilate' was really not good at all, the
way he delivered his lines felt very forced and not natural at all. Tom
Felton was also a complete miscast, he just did not work at all as a
Roman Soldier and his dialogue was very wooden and fake and just gave
the impression that he was overacting and did take me out of it a
little. So in the end this was a surprisingly very good biblical film that
offered enough new elements to this familiar story to differentiate it
from the countless other similar films. This film would have been much
better had they cast someone other than Tom Felton, as he was bringing
down the film when Joseph Fiennes was putting in a fantastic
performance. It's no 'Passion of the Christ' but it is better than a
lot of other biblical films to come out in recent years. 7.3/10

******
26 February 2016
10
What a masterpiece! The best biblical historical fiction story since
THE ROBE. And it beautifully extrapolates and interpolates from the
scriptures - without changing anything! Clever!I've seen it already 9 times! And counting… The whirlwind of emotion,
suspense, and healing is supernatural. I just don't get tired of
experiencing the character transformation of Clavius—the Pilate's
Tribune. Joseph Fiennes is pure perfection in this performance.The Wonderful: Love the cast. Cliff Curtis has given us an everyman,
accessible and down-to-earth Jesus! Love the settings. The special
effects are simple and so effective! I love the balance created between
the very serious and dramatic characters (most of the disciples,
priests, Romans) and the funny and fresh: the disciple Bartholomeus and
Lucius. I never thought I would giggle and laugh, but Bartholomeus is
cute and funny! I also love the sensory details: I squirmed with the
smell the rotting of flesh; I delighted in the scents of rosemary.
There's also the many textures. These small details contribute to
making the film come alive!!!The journey of discovery that Clavius goes through is intoxicating.
First, we meet him in his regular life: the bloody death-causing
Tribune. Violence and numbness to the stench of human flesh rot is a
natural thing for him. As well as is natural to not smile or express
emotion. Of course—he's been bred for that, he's a successful
highly-trusted Tribune. Pilate's right hand. But there's one speck of
kindness in Clavius—we love him because he is not all wickedness: aside
from doing his job, he shows compassion for the mourning and screaming
mother of YESHUA. You'll see why.Then that eye-to-eye contact with the dead Son of God… that's our first
inciting incident that starts the emotional transformation in Clavius.
You can sense a powerful connection between the characters here.The next trigger in the story is when Pilates demands a body to be
unearthed: suddenly Clavius turns into a forensics investigator and
spy. Another heart-touching moment: What do you seek? Asks Pilates.
Clavius goes through a list, only to arrive to one statement: A DAY
WITHOUT DEATH (pay attention to this statement, it is an important
piece for later…). So we know there's a seed of goodness and hope in
this ruthless Tribune…For the first half of the movie, a summation of events drive Clavius to
a state of doubt in his disbelief—a paradox. Is the dead man really
dead or not? Then at midpoint there's a dramatic 180 degree shift in
the story—the most wonderful thing. I don't want to reveal what
happens. Please watch it! Not just once but at least twice so can
really absorb all the wonder. Then the rest of the story becomes really
inspiring and warm. For me, tears and smiles flowed like gentle waves
of a calm sea… At the end, we see a new Clavius that smiles, cries, and
is capable of experiencing wonder. A transformed human being.The ugly and bad: the dead zombies!! Lots of rot-putrid decomposing
human beings! This happens during the first half of the movie. Anyway, I love this film so much--from the point of view of a zealous
moviegoer and as a student of screen writing. I'm going to watch it
again and again. Historical fiction bible based stories are challenging
and difficult to master, and RISEN has shown that it can be done.
Clearly there's expertise and heart in the making and writing of this
film. Go and watch it with faith...Cheers, Yelitza.

******
5 March 2016
8
We liked the movie tremendously. It didn't move nearly as quickly in
the middle of the movie as it did at the beginning and the end. But we
thought it was quite good, better than the typical comic book movie
(action flicks) Hollywood puts out these days. We gave it 8/10. Joseph
Fiennes does a very credible job of acting, and portraying the lead
character, a Roman Tribune named Clavius who is perplexed by the events
surrounding the resurrection.Great point of view, very original, we gave them top marks for that!
The middle part is essential to the story line, but is limited by the
somewhat non-action oriented nature as described above. Not that movies
have to have lots of action to be interesting, we are spoiled these
days since that is what we feed on mostly from Hollywood. But the good
old movies where they had minimal special effects and relied upon
acting, with witty dialog and snappy come backs were better IMO than
the stuff they "Act" in front of green screens these days.These types of movies, with minimal special effects (Risen being one)
rely more on set decoration and acting skills. This film deserves a lot
of credit for that. It was a wonderful way to see parts of the Bible
come to life, and to feel "Immersed" in those events.

******
28 February 2016
9
At the core of this film is a fictional story that works very well. It
expands on the possible events surrounding the three days between
Jesus' death and his return. It's told through the eyes of a Roman
tribune, whom we know from the beginning is different from all the
other soldiers. He's well trained and can fight the best of his
enemies, but inside of him lives a questioning soul, and his ultimate
goal is to find a peaceful place to raise a loving family.So he becomes a witness to the disposal of Jesus' death body, and he
believes this will be the end of his connection to this event. Things
begin to turn away from their traditional resolution as we see Jesus'
body hurriedly buried by someone who appears to be a close relation or
friend. Slowly, he discovers that there are political ramifications to ensuring
the man is truly dead, and we see constant interventions and requests
to make sure Jesus is truly gone. A few days later the prophecies come
true, and now the tribune wonders what has really happened. He
investigates, meets Jesus' followers and finds it difficult to
understand what the man meant to them, until he begins to "see" some
truly miraculous events. Still it's a process that is complex and not
that easy to handle. This is when Joseph Fiennes does a miraculous
acting turn himself, as we see the opening of his mind and heart
through his eyes. He fears the unknown, the power of the mystical
nature of this special man.The success of the film originates on how well written and acted the
film is, especially the second film, as we see Fiennes changing into a
believer, still doubting but changing and figuring out what his task
and destiny might be. The film doesn't preach; it tells a story and
lets the audience see the events, and decide for themselves whether
this story has done justice to the original sources.I went without much of an expectation and left pleasantly surprised
because if anything it was a story well told.

******
24 February 2016
10
To provide a totally new point of view for an extremely well known
story is not only unique, but incredibly welcomed. It sure serves this
Biblical-themed film well, as we get an entirely different perspective
of the resurrection of Christ. Pontius Pilate's right hand man, Clavius (Joseph Fiennes), must oversee
the death of Jesus (Cliff Curtis) on the cross, as well as his rumored
rising from the dead. The latter of which is insisted upon out of fear
from the Jewish high priest.In most Christian-influenced films, these
antagonists-turned-protagonists already have a good- guy demeanor about
them from the very start. You know he's going to have a change of
heart, and it's just not believable that he would be that bad of a
person. Fiennes totally bashes all of those stereotypes. His adamance
is true in the beginning, and so is his conversion. If you haven't seen the movie yet, or are really bad at figuring out
what's going to happen, then stop reading. But what Risen does best is
not making everything so black and white. Clavius isn't 100% gung-ho
with this whole discipleship by the end. He's heading that direction,
but he's still processing things. He just saw a guy come back from the
dead, for Heaven's sake! (Pun intended).While most faith-based films are very serious--often times taking
themselves a little too serious--Risen has a bit more levity. Not too
much as to alienate its truest followers, but just enough to grab the
attention of the more indifferent. And the jokes aren't corny at all.
In fact, they're always very much deserved each time.If you think this film will be boring, you are mistaken. It's spiritual
with good moral direction, but also comes fully equipped with chase
scenes and gumshoe tropes. After all, Clavius is doing all that he can
find a dead body that's gone missing.Risen hearkens back to the classic Biblical epics of Hollywood's golden
age--in a positive way only--without ever losing its fresh
sensibilities. But unlike those old movies, this film knows what it's
doing at all times--even when it comes down to the race of each
character. It doesn't just throw a bunch of stereotypes at you.
Everything is happening for a purpose.The filmmakers know that most of its audience isn't going to be so
credulous--and don't want them to be--so what we get is a brilliant
reification of historical events to the point that even the most
doubtful viewer may stop and reconsider.Twizard Rating: 97

******
23 February 2016
8
So good to have a Christian film that doesn't make you cringe with
embarrassment at its naivety or ineptness but instead touches you. Well
to be honest it made me shed a few tears. Fiennes was great as the
world weary brutal soldier who when confronted with the incredibly
inexplicable both in miracle and in loving behaviour, is willing to
search for answers. I loved the way Jesus and the apostles were
portrayed. No blue eyed fair skinned Jesus here, instead a darker
skinned brown eyed rather enigmatic Jeshua. As for Peter, one of my
favourite apostles, I'm so glad he was portrayed as someone willing to
say "I don't know/understand" (unlike some of his modern day
counterparts). If you have felt let down over some faith films, do try
this one I think you'll be happily surprised.

******
28 February 2016
10
Taken place after the crucification of Jesus Christ, Clavius(Joseph
Fiennes) a Roman Soldier starts an investigation when the body of the
messiah known has Jesus suddenly vanishes. Clavius is determined to get
to the truth. But will the truth will be not what expected? The Roman setting during the time of Christ is pretty good, at times it
becomes it's own character. Joseph Fiennes delivers a terrific
performance, quite Oscar worthy, Tom Felton of Harry Potter fame also
does quite well. This movie like Son of God(2014) made me enjoy life. I
hope this will make a believer out of non believers. One great bible
film for everybody to enjoy.

******
27 February 2016
10
Yeshua is alive!There is no doubt about that. His tomb was found empty, all His
disciples saw Him, and He is the most influential man to ever walk the
planet. There's no wonder why! He is the Son of God!This is an incredible showing the glory of His resurrection. Watch it
and encounter the One True Living God!Joseph Fiennes does an amazing job and his character is very
captivating in this film. His acting was one of the highlights of this
film for me.I hope I can see this movie again, get more friends to watch it with me
and get blow away by the glory of our great God Yeshua!!!

******
21 February 2016
5
First of all, this review contains a spoiler.Now this movie is 1:47 long. In that time, there was in fact two
movies, the first hour was truly like a detective story unfolding
during the time of Jesus Christ's death and resurrection. The
development of the Tribune within the context of service to the emperor
as well as locally to Pilate was well done. However, the greatest
tragedy of writing in this movie was after the Tribune discovers Jesus
meeting with his disciples, very much risen, welcoming him into the
room. Initially, all that the Tribune can do is drop his sword. At that
moment, all that made sense to this Roman - the Empire, the emperor,
law, order, his role, everything - no longer had any relevance. This is
when the movie should have ended. Unfortunately, what we get is a
completely different tone from now on. With little character
development we get a "Forest Gump" meets "Travels with Charley" tour of
miracles and a jaunt to Galilee. Clearly, the movie had lost the focus
from the first half and there was some felt need to show "Jesus in
action" rather than people in action because of their faith in Jesus.
Truly unfortunate. This made a 4 star movie into at best 3 stars,
falling flat and shining little.

******
19 February 2016
10
Risen is a story about a Roman soldier named Clavius who participated
in the crucifixion and was later asked by Pontius Pilate to investigate
with regards to the news that Jesus was stolen.This Christian film could be characterized as an investigative film
wherein the Roman Tribune Clavius,portrayed by Joseph Fiennes, play
detective and try to find out whether there is truth to the
resurrection of Jesus or it was just a propaganda made by the apostles
to relive his memory.As he proceeds to the investigation,he tries to
find out whether there is truth to the news made by the high priest
Caiaphas about the body being stolen by the apostles.He also talk to
followers of Jesus including an apostle named Bartholomew to find out
the truth behind it.Included to the investigation are the Roman
soldiers that were asked to guard the tomb who apparently were found
out to be sleeping as they were drunk while guarding the area.As
Clavius goes deep into it,we later see him find out the truth and later
joins the apostles as they spend time with a mysterious man with whom
they call "Yeshua".The film had an interesting premise.No question about it.It would have
been a lot better had they maintained with it as an investigative film
similar to the ones we are familiar with like Sherlock Holmes or the
CSI shows seen on television.A conclusion made on the investigation by
Clavius would have been a lot better. But the transformation of Clavius
from being a Roman soldier playing investigator into becoming probably
the first Roman apostle of Jesus was good nevertheless.The concluding
part the film became bible-based which became all too familiar
especially as it narrated the experiences of the apostles having had a
hard time catching fish in the Sea Of Galilee until Jesus appeared and
during the ascension when he back into heaven.Kudos to screenwriters
Kevin Reynolds and Paul Aiello for doing a great job despite having a
Gospel-based conclusion.It was definitely a good Christian film that
was taken from from a Roman perspective.

******
9 March 2016
6
Risen gave a fresh but solemn view of the biblical story of the
aftermath of Jesus's crucifixion as it tells the story through the eyes
of a conflicted and emotionally drained Roman soldier named Clavius.
Clavius seems more of a tired observer with his deep stare and mellow
manner, and he seems appalled by the violence that the Roman soldiers
perform, violence that he himself is called on to perform as well. He
is tired of it all and wants to retire to a quiet life with a family,
without witnessing any more deaths. None-the-less, duty demands that he
kill from time to time, which he dutifully does, and he seems half
mortified over this, and half compliant. During the battle in the
beginning of the movie, Clavius apathetically kills a Jewish rebel, and
later, during the tri-crucifixion scene, he orders a Roman soldier to
break a prisoner's leg as he's dying on the cross, then runs his spear
through Jesus's ribs, and he's no more bothered by this than if someone
fender-bendered him at the supermarket.The way Fiennes played his role as a troubled Roman official was
intriguing, capturing civilians to question them about the whereabouts
of Jesus's body, then dismissing them at will. The viewer expected
Clavius to perhaps resort to violence or torture to get his captures to
speak and reveal where Jesus's body is, knowledge that he desperately
needed to satisfy his commander, Pontius Pilate. However, Clavius never
quite went that far, either out of compassion or exhaustion. While
Fiennes was cast well, Curtis, who plays Jesus, is a cross between a
California hippie and a happy skateboard dude in a Coke commercial. In
his final good-bye scene, Jesus glibly calls across the sand yelling
his farewell as if mom was telling her kids to be good while dad's in
charge.Clavius's young side kick Lucius is played by Tom Felton, and unlike
Draco, Lucius follows Clavius around looking confused. Bartholomew was
my favorite character. Clavius demands that Bartholomew tell him where
Jesus's body is, and Bartholomew grins flippantly and conveys that he
ain't telling nothing'! Clavius interrogates him more harshly, kicks
him to the ground, and Bartholomew gets up and slowly approaches
Clavius, solemnly bends down to his ear, and says, "he's everywhere!"
Then Bartholomew beams and prances away; the joke's on Clavius! The
only more comical scene was when Clavius asked a group of men, "Does
any of you know Mary Magdalene?" and all of them raised their hands.
One more -- I was amused when Mary Magdalene looked like Miss Karate
Woman beats Godzilla when she kicked an advancing soldier out of her
way and escaped through a stone window. Mary is cast well, but her role
is too brief, as is all the twelve disciples who are never given any
individual definition (except for Simon, who sometimes pouts, and who
sometimes is as happy as Santa Claus). Pontius Pilate is old and whiny
and is fixated on not upsetting public opinion. Maybe he was really
like that, but they don't show the inner turmoil he must have felt
being forced to kill an innocent man to placate the masses.We all know the ending, but Risen takes an unorthodox (if you will)
direction. We see facial expressions of shock and realization that tell
the story better than computer-generated special effects, and we are
constantly grounded into this time period with the frequent buzzing of
flies over rotting bodies, hair filled with dust and sand, broken
statues of the gods, and earthquakes that crack massive stone gates.
Thus, Risen shows instead of tells, and doesn't preach, thank God.

******
8 March 2016
10
The big challenge for writing a story around a biblical event is trying
to fill in the blanks without "coloring outside the lines". The writers
of RISEN did an excellent job! There was only one scene where they may
have stepped out of bounds a little: When Jesus told the disciples to
toss the net on the other side of the boat, (John 21:2) The writers put
Clavius in the boat with them. Not scriptural, but no harm done. The
rest of the scenes that were not specifically from scripture took into
account the historical backdrop and human nature, leading to likely
conversations, and plausible outcomes where scripture left off.The lead actor (Joseph Fiennes) was very good with subtle expressions
that spoke volumes! One notable scene was when Clavius found the other
tomb guard, Polybius (played by Richard Atwill) and questioned him.
This had to be the most demanding role of the movie, and Richard Atwill
was outstanding! Dear IMDb, please get his photo and more details about
him on this website!

******
7 March 2016
10
I absolutely resonate with the 2 previous reviews (jbucher32 and
McKenzie_Bryant). I have watched this movie twice in 2 days and could
easily see it 10 more times. It takes a very familiar story (the
Biblical account of Jesus' death and resurrection) and views it from a
unique angle, inserting a fictional Roman centurion to open things up.
The storyline creates wonderful opportunities to examine the deepest
questions of life and death, truth and faith. The filming, the music,
the script, and the acting are all first-rate, in my opinion. I see
Clavius as the devil's advocate (no pun intended) in all of us, the
part of us that desperately wants to put the pieces of life together in
a factual way, a way that satisfies our minds and logic. Clavius's
dogged pursuit of the truth pulled me in. What are my answers to the
questions and experiences he faced? Yes, I absolutely am a believer. But I think the gift of "Risen" is
that it's respectful to believers and non-believers alike. I wondered
if it would respect my mind (as a viewer) as well as my heart (as a
believer). I feared it would either have a simplistic,
overly-reverential gloss or else aim to wring the Biblical story dry of
any faith dimension at all. I enjoyed "Risen" because--aside from 1 or
2 melodramatic moments--it did neither. Just watching Joseph Fienne's
face was an experience in itself. The nuance and complexity he captured
in his eyes just entranced me. I thought his last line was simply
perfect.I truly hope that Mr. Fiennes and the creators of this movie get the
acclaim they richly deserve and that the religious theme doesn't push
attention away. I know I will be seeing it many times again.

******
1 March 2016
10
Watched "Risen" last night and must say I was impressed. It is very
well made and the story was captivating. The story less focuses on
Jesus and more on a fictional roman character who is tasked with
sealing and placing guards to watch Jesus's tomb. But when the body
disappears, it falls in his hands to investigate and retrieve the body.
Like a good detective movie, we follow the main actors disbelief but
openness to search for the truth. But what makes this movie stand out
for me was the acting. The quality and intensity of the actors make
this movie one that should not be missed. I recommend this movie to
everyone.

******
4 March 2016
10
Very well made. Great action. Research the Roman Diaries sometime. A
true testament of how wondrous Jesus is. Roman Soldiers ,non believers,
that wrote about what they saw Jesus and his disciples do. Joseph
Fiennes, Tom Felton,and Peter Firth were perfect for the roles they
played. Very Heart pounding. Should win some awards if Hollywood
doesn't play-it-down. if you enjoy Biblical or simply historic movies
that are well written, acted, and developed well that you will enjoy
this movie. You will enjoy it especially when we see the conversion of
Clavius taking place.He was and always will be The King.

******
25 February 2016
6
'RISEN': Three Stars (Out of Five)The new biblical epic; about a Roman soldier's obsessive search for
Jesus's missing body. It was directed by Kevin Reynolds (the director
of such other epic action flicks as 'ROBIN HOOD: PRINCE OF THIEVES',
'THE COUNT OF MONTE CRISTO' and 'WATERWORLD'); Reynolds also co- wrote
the movie, with Paul Aiello. The film stars Joseph Fiennes, Tom Felton,
Peter Firth and Cliff Curtis (as Jesus). I think the movie is a lot
better than most Christian themed flicks, but it's ultimately (still)
way too dull. The story revolves around a Roman Tribune, named Clavius (Fiennes).
He's first tasked, by Pontius Pilate (Firth), to protect the grave of
Yeshua (Curtis); also known as Jesus of Nazareth. When the body goes
missing, his mission becomes to track it down; before a Jewish uprising
grows out of control. Even nonbelievers know how this story turns out.The movie is beautifully shot, and decently acted (Fiennes is great in
the lead role). It's also an interesting new take on a beloved, and
classic, story. Still, the film is way too slow-paced. It starts out a
lot more entertaining; but by the movie's end, I was falling asleep.
It's definitely no 'THE PASSION OF THE Christ' (one of my all-time
favorite films)!Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at: https://youtu.be/3D-
Xa6uhK5U

******
22 February 2016
10
Saw it last night and it was really, really good... and I tend to be a
critic of some Christian movies because of the acting/storyline/special
effects/etc. The opening battle scene was some of the best Roman
warfare I've seen on screen since Gladiator. Also, performances from
central actors were exceptional.You have to go in realizing this follows a little more loosely to the
Biblical accounts in some areas, but is pretty accurate in others. Most
importantly, the Gospel was presented accurately: death and physical
resurrection of Christ, salvation simply by believing in the risen
Lord.Strong points:1. Clavius - amazing performance, believable character, adds to the
story rather than detracting. 2. Jesus - finally a believable, 1st
century Jewish Jesus! Strong performance. Up there with The Passion.
His character exuded a believable grace and love. 3. Apostles - loved
performances from Peter and Bartholomew. Peter was accurately portrayed
as a rough fisherman with a rash temperament. 4.
Jerusalem/Judea/Galilee - the settings were completely up to par with
The Passion. 5. Cinematography - better than The Passion in a number of
instances. 6. Resurrection - finally described and portrayed with power
and with the Biblical Roman guard and seal! Ropes of the Roman seal
EXPLODED, stone rolled/thrown away like a "leaf" as one guard describes
it.Weak points:Only weak points IMHO are where they deviated from Scripture.1. Jesus is shown ascending from the shores of Galilee, but in the
Bible He made His final appearance on the Mount of Olives, from there
He ascended 2. His ascension was witnessed by only the apostles, but in
the Bible it was witnessed by over 500 disciples 3. As in most films
about Christ the crucifixion is way too sanitized. In reality Christ
was flayed with a Roman flagrum. If the Shroud of Turin is to be
believed (and I think it is) He had literally HUNDREDS of stripes. The
Passion is still the only portrayal that shows anything close to
reality. But this was probably done on purpose to maintain a PG-13
rating. 4. Darkness - this is a common issues in all film portrayals of
the gospels. The three hour period of darkness should not merely be
"slightly overcast", it should be darkness as the Bible describes it.
Extra-Biblical Roman accounts described it as so dark you could see the
stars.All-in-all, I really enjoyed it. Go see it!

******
21 February 2016
8
I was intrigued by this film the first time I heard about it simply
because it looked like a religious movie with some actual talent and
work behind it. It seems like most religious films nowadays simply
aren't very good and are sometimes straight up awful. Fortunately, this
is easily one of the better ones. The movie is directed by Kevin
Reynolds, who's probably best known for that Kevin Costner Robin Hood
film but also directed the excellent miniseries Hatfields & McCoys.
Let's talk about the story a little bit.The story starts off at the same time as the crucifixion of Christ
(referred to as Yeshua in the movie, played by Cliff Curtis). Clavius
(Joseph Fiennes) is a Roman tribune tasked with doing Pilate's (Peter
Firth) dirty work. Clavius's most recent job is to see that a man
claiming to be the messiah of the Hebrews is put to death. He sees that
Yeshua is killed and buried but the body soon comes up missing and
there are rumors that the man has risen from death. Pilate is worried
about these rumors since the emperor, Tiberius, is on his way and he
doesn't want his province to show any unrest. Pilate sends Clavius out
to find the body but Clavius soon encounters something that destroys
everything he has ever known or thought he knew.One of the things that separates this religious film from many of the
others is the quality of the acting. Joseph Fiennes gives an impressive
portrayal as Clavius and carries the movie pretty well. Clavius just
seems to be weary of the world in general but he's especially tired of
his position as a Roman enforcer and Pilate's lapdog. Peter Firth also
does a great job as Pilate and gives us someone that we don't really
hate but pity in a strange way. We know that he's responsible for the
death of Christ but Pilate also seems weary of his duties and wishes
that he didn't have to go through with Yeshua's death and some of the
other reprehensible things that he has overseen. Finally, I have to
give props to Cliff Curtis for his down to Earth but inspiring
portrayal of Yeshua. I feel like this is one of those roles that many
actors have taken on but only a few have really done justice to. I
imagine that everyone has their own ideas about how Christ should act
and it's impossible to make everyone happy. I personally thought Curtis
did a fine job and his Christ came off humble but inspiring, which is
exactly how I envision the man.I tend to appreciate when a movie looks like it's actually being filmed
in an area that looks historically accurate to the source material. The
Roman buildings look Roman and the villages at least look like
villages. I'm not really sure what kind of architecture was used back
then but it certainly got the job done and looks pretty good. There are
also some beautiful scenes of the Disciples and Clavius traveling
through the wilderness that were very well done. I don't really have
many complaints to make since I generally thought the movie was much
better than I thought it would be. I liked the focus on an unbeliever
but I thought they tried to shoehorn him in a little too much. For
example, he's the one that saves everyone from the Romans and then he's
the last one to speak to Yeshua before his ascension. I thought that
was a little on the nose and took me out of the experience a little.Overall, I really enjoyed the film and found it to be inspiring. Even
if you're not religious, it's hard to dislike the teachings of Christ
unless you're a proponent of the Ubermensch or something. I thought it
was interesting having the story focus so much on an ex-soldier and
unbeliever but it did come off as forced in some parts. Still, that's
just a mild complaint and I recommend giving the movie a shot. God
knows it's better than eighty percent of the other religious films out
there.

******
21 February 2016
7
What's in a name? When that name is Jesus, the answer is… a lot. It's
nearly impossible, at least in a largely Christian nation like the
United States, for the hearing of that name not to bring to mind very
specific ideas, feelings and personal beliefs, regardless of the
hearer's own religious inclinations. That makes it difficult for most
westerners to view a movie about Jesus with objectivity and dispassion.
Maybe that's why the filmmakers behind "Risen" (PG-13, 1:47) chose to
keep that famous name out of the title of their movie – and most of its
script. Rather than referring to the man underlying the film's plot by
that name that is so rife with meaning for so many people, the script
almost exclusively uses Yeshuah, the Hebrew form of that world-famous
name. The film also avoids showcasing an actor who is another version
of the traditional western "blonde-haired, blue-eyed Jesus" in the
pivotal role, instead opting for someone who looks more like
Jesus/Yeshuah probably looked. What's more, while the question of who
Jesus really was is central to the plot, this movie isn't really about
Jesus, who is only a supporting character. These decisions by the
filmmakers allow western audience members a fighting chance to take in
this film with relatively fresh eyes and ears and experience it as the
original story it is.The major players in the story of Jesus' death and resurrection are
here: Pontius Pilate (Oscar nominee Peter Firth), the governing prefect
of the Roman province of Judaea and the man who ordered Jesus'
crucifixion; Caiaphas (Stephen Grief), the High Priest of Judaea and
the man who led the opposition to Jesus' and demanded his crucifixion;
Joseph of Arimathea (Antonio Gil), a member of the Jewish council (the
Sanhedrin) and the man who donated his tomb as a resting place for
Jesus' body; Jesus' mother, Mary (Frida Cauchi); the presumed former
prostitute, Mary Magdalene (María Botto); the 12 disciples (or "11
now," as one character notes) – with Simon Peter (Stewart Scudamore)
and Bartholomew (Joe Manjón) getting the most screen time – and of
course, "Jesus, who is called the Christ," as the Bible refers to him
(award winning actor Cliff Curtis). But the film's main character isn't
in the Bible and was created for this version of the story: the Roman
tribune, Clavius (Golden Globe winner Joseph Fiennes).This film follows Clavius as he investigates the claims of Jesus'
resurrection – first because he is told to, and later because he feels
he needs to. Clavius is a capable, but jaded Roman army officer whom
Pilate relies on to do things like mercilessly quell local uprisings
and otherwise help keep the peace in his province – especially with the
Roman Emperor Tiberius scheduled to visit soon. Naturally, Pilate calls
upon Clavius to make sure Jesus' dies quickly on that cross and then to
ensure that the tomb is properly secured and that his followers don't
steal the body and then claim that Jesus fulfilled his promise to rise
from the dead. When Clavius' appointed guards fall asleep on duty and
Jesus' body disappears anyway, it falls to Clavius and his ambitious
new assistant, Lucius (Tom Felton), to find out what really happened.Clavius leaves no stone unturned (literally) in his efforts to stop
rumors of Jesus' resurrection before they can multiply and create
problems for the Roman authorities. Clavius orders the examination of
every adult Jewish male corpse from the past week in the hopes of
finding Jesus' body – or any body that he can pass off as Jesus'.
Clavius interviews a number of people (including some mentioned in the
previous paragraph), but instead of uncovering the assumed conspiracy,
he's repeatedly confronted with stubborn and sincere professions of
faith. Clavius hopes that finding where the rest of the disciples are
hiding will help him get to the bottom of these resurrection rumors,
but ends up wondering if those rumors might not be rumors at all. He
ends up following the disciples to Galilee where Jesus is supposed to
appear to his disciples in person. Let's just say that Clavius gets the
answers he seeks – and more."Risen" is an original and effective re-telling of what is often called
"the greatest story ever told". The performances are excellent and the
film even includes a few laughs – not jokes, per se, but well-played
light-hearted moments that break the tension. Co-written and directed
by Kevin Reynolds (who also directed the fantastic 2002 film version of
"The Count of Monte Cristo"), tells a story which is very faithful to
the biblical accounts, as it seamlessly weaves the fictional Clavius
into the narrative. Where this film falls down a bit is in the realism
department. The battle-hardened Clavius is portrayed as too easy-going
when it comes to his manner and methods as he investigates the
resurrection, and the film sometimes strains credulity as it tries to
accommodate its obvious objective of appealing to the faithful, and
maybe even winning a few converts along the way. Of course, skeptics
will also take exception to the extraordinary assumptions made in the
film's core narrative. However, this film is fresher, more compellingly
acted and better produced than most accounts of the most important part
of the New Testament. Although there are short scenes of violence, some
blood and shots of rotting corpses, "Risen" is mostly family-friendly
(except maybe for small children) and also pretty entertaining. "B+"

******
13 March 2016
7
In "Risen" 2016 Joseph Fiennes gives a terrific performance as Clavius,
a Roman tribune tasked by Pontius Pilate (Peter Firth) with
investigating the disappearance of the corpse of a crucified Jewish
carpenter whose name I think you probably know. Fiennes is so good that
if this had been a better-produced film he would have been nominated
for an Academy Award. I like high production values in a film about the ancient world. You
won't find that here. No breathtaking views of a recreated first
century Jerusalem; no magnificent desert sunsets, no surging crowds. What you get, instead, is Joseph Fiennes' supremely handsome face,
grimacing in the heat of battle, gazing snake-like as he plays power
games with Pontius Pilate as they share a tiled bath, and, eventually,
awestruck into transcendence. The scene where Clavius confronts the
truth of Jesus is one of the best scenes I've ever seen in any movie.
It was so stunning that while I was watching the movie I was actively
wishing I could "rewind" and watch it all again. The film opens with Clavius fighting Jewish insurgents. Again, because
of low budget, the film can't show you rank upon rank of infantry. What
it does show you, instead, is the close-up and personal aspect of
combat. You've got a handful of Roman soldiers, full armor, obviously
rigorously and expertly trained in the art of war, working out their
carefully routinized tactics against a passionate but ragtag group of
Jews fighting in fevered frenzy for their homeland and their God. The
Jews score a few points. The Romans are better equipped and trained,
and they ultimately triumph. Clavius has noted exactly which Jew killed
his friend, and he is sure to kill that Jew with his own hands. "Risen" handles Jesus' crucifixion in a way unlike any I've seen
before. Jesus was crucified on Golgotha, place of the skull, meant to
be a hill. Usually filmmakers and painters capitalize on the dramatic
aspects of hilltops in order to highlight the crucifixion. "Risen" does
not. In this film Jesus appears to be crucified in a dirty little alley, at
almost eye level. Clavius uses a terse soldier's purely manual sign
language to communicate, above the screams and wails of witnesses, to a
foot soldier to break the crucified's legs in order to put an end to
their suffering. This sign language is very affecting. It lets you know
that these Romans have crucified so many victims that they have
developed a code. Clavius notices that Jesus' mother is in agony as she
watches her son suffer. He decides that piercing this victim's side
will be the more compassionate route. As Jesus is pierced, Clavius
looks up at Jesus' face. Jesus' face makes an impression on him. That
impression will prove important later. Romans crucified thousands of victims. That being the case, they would
have been able to erect and dismantle crosses quickly and efficiently.
That's exactly what happens in "Risen." This is a sort of Ikea
crucifixion. As soon as the condemned breathe their last, Romans scurry
to dismantle the pre-fab cross into its constituent, reusable parts.
They've done this so many times, they don't have to read the printed
directions in five languages. Then they unceremoniously dump the
corpses into a common grave, and cover them over, shallowly, with lime.
Flies buzz loudly. Joseph of Arimathea (Antonio Gil) approaches and begs for Jesus' body,
that he might provide it with a decent burial. After Jesus' resurrection, Clavius interrogates many in an attempt to
discover the truth. Clavius begins in the tomb, where he sees Jesus'
burial shroud imprinted with what we now know as the image of the
shroud of Turin. Clavius goes on to speak with Jesus' followers. His
investigation changes his life forever. A protest: the film depicts Mary Magdalene (Maria Botto) as a
prostitute. She was not. In fact she was a woman of means who used her
money to underwrite Jesus' ministry. She was also the apostle to the
apostles. She was the first to share the good news, telling others of
Jesus' resurrection. A complaint: Fiennes has a shallow wound on his lip. The scab would
have healed much quicker in real life than it does in the film. Also
the scab moves to the left as it heals which is a tad distracting. I wish "Risen" had had a tighter script. There are scenes that just beg
to be rewritten. Bartholomew (Stephen Hagan), a follower of Jesus, says
he would willingly be crucified for Jesus, and that followers of Jesus
are "everywhere." These are beautiful sentiments, but the script in
this scene really needed a couple of more rewrites. Mary Magdalene is
given nonsense lines, and her scene is merely annoying for this reason,
although Botto does her best with the part. Cliff Curtis, a Maori actor, is terrific as Jesus. He's warm,
affecting, offering a sense of depth and complexity, and, blessedly,
not the picture perfect pretty boy of too many films. Max Von Sydow has
long been my favorite cinematic Jesus, but Curtis is an excellent
runner up. "Risen" isn't the best Biblical epic I've ever seen, but Joseph Fiennes
really couldn't be better in it. I look forward to seeing the film
again to savor his performance.

******
12 March 2016
9
Kevin Reynolds is commended for his direction of this awesome, coherent
presentation dealing with the biblical drama surrounding the
crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ/Yeshua (Cliff Curtis).
This story is told through the point of view of a non-believer. Pontius
Pilate (Peter Firth) demands his right hand man, Clavius (Joseph
Fiennes), a most honored Roman Military Tribune, to seek out and solve
the mystery of what happened with the crucified corpse of Yeshua. How
could this man die on a cross and then escape his tomb? Pilate believes
that followers have taken the body and hid it. Pilate assigns Lucius
(Tom Fenton) to aid Clavius in using whatever means necessary to find
the body to put an end to rumors of a Nazarene Messiah rising from the
dead and avoiding any unrest in Jerusalem.Outstanding visual effects and scenery. This film is given a PG-13
rating due to biblical violence and what can be considered gruesome and
very disturbing images. This is not to say that some younger viewers
couldn't handle the graphic and intense matter presented.The strong cast also features: Mish Boyko, Stewart Scudamore, Jan
Cornet, Luis Callejo, Antonio Gill, Stephen Hagan, Richard Atwill,
Frida Cauchi, Alberto Ayala, Joe Manjon and also Maria Botto as Mary
Magdalene.

******
12 March 2016
10
It is clear that "subtle" and "downplayed" were both the director's
aims for this film, which is unusual for a Christian movie, and this
might bore some audience members because the trailers seem to feature
more action. To truly enjoy this film, you must follow all of the
dialogue, which is difficult because so much of it is so quietly
spoken. This is not a movie to see when you are tired or hoping for
lots of action and special effects. However, the movie is definitely
worth the ticket price, as the true drama lies in the tension between
the characters and what their dialogue communicates. What I truly
appreciate is the effort that went into creating an intelligent
Christian film, even at the risk of boring audience members who can't
follow it, though that would probably include many people who see this
movie only once.

******
11 March 2016
7
As a Christian, one must often be wary of watching a movie that claims
to have Christian values to it, especially when said movie takes place
during Biblical times. This is often a quick and easy way for Hollywood
to make some major historical inaccuracies appear as though they really
happened. Even 'The Passion of the Christ' was not without fault.
'Risen' is no different, and that is why one must realize that this is
not a biographical film. This is rather using the Biblical times as a
setpiece in order to tell a story that could have happened, but did
not. The movie centers around a Roman commander tasked with finding the
body of Jesus Christ after it disappears on the Third Day after his
death on the cross. The Roman is of course a non- believer, and in
order to end the movie with him believing, he has to come across Jesus
and the disciples. This is where the movie turns away from the Bible in
the historical sense, as there was of course no Roman traveling with
the 12 to Galilea after Jesus' resurrection (not that the Bible speaks
of, anyway). Despite this, one must really look at the story the movie
is telling: which is a story of redemption. The Roman soldier has been
looking for peace all his life-this is talked about early in the film.
Only when he believes does he receive that peace. The film in and of
itself is well done. Nothing looked fake. The acting was not wooden. I
find the normal qualities of filmmaking hard to focus on in Christian
movies, though, given there are much more important messages at stake.
Some of the camera-work struck me even as very 'Lord of the
Rings'/'Hobbit'-esque, especially when the disciples are running from
the Romans in the grass. The film contains a strange amount of comedic
moments for it being the film that it is, but this is passable. I
recommend this to those who are already Christian, but if you're a non-
believer looking to explore the realities of God, focus on movies such
as 'God's Not Dead' first.

******
11 March 2016
9
I loved this movie. It's not your typically telling of the passion
story, and just like all the other reviewers said..it's a fresh telling
of narrative the Death and Resurrection of Jesus...from the eyes of a
Roman who sought the truth of both. The only think that bugged me is
the casting of Mary Magdalene as a whole. While there are religious
beliefs of this, largely catholic, they are long refuted as wrong. The
Jewish Talmud affirms that Magdala had an unsavory reputation, and
because of the harlotry practiced there was destroyed The Bible only
states that Mary had seven demons...no more no less. Scripture
References—Matthew 27:56, 61; 28:1; Mark 15:40, 47; 16:1-19; Luke 8:2;
24:10; John 19:25; 20:1-18.Other than that ...I has no issues. I'll add it to my video collection
..unlike Son of God

******
8 March 2016
8
Risen is directed by Kevin Reynolds and stars Joseph Fiennes as
Clavius, a Roman Tribune in the year 33 AD. Clavius was partly
responsible for the execution of Jesus Christ, the son of God. When
Jesus' body disappears, Clavius is recruited to make sure his followers
don't try to stage a resurrection. This film shows his psychological
struggle in comprehending the impossible; a man coming back from the
dead.To start, this film is the best interpretation of any Bible story since
The Passion of the Christ (2004). What this film does that others have
failed to do it get the story right. I've read the story of Jesus'
death and resurrection straight from the Bible before, and this movie
gets everything right. Nothing about this film is made up, and comes
straight from the Bible. Even a few lines are taken word for word from
the Bible.The cinematography in this movie is very noteworthy. The
cinematographer and director got the look of the time period right, and
did so beautifully. Many wide shots of the desert, or even the Roman
occupied city look very nice, especially on the big screen. The look
and feel of the environment is very gritty and hot, just like a real
life desert would be.The second good thing about this film is the acting. To start, Joseph
Fiennes does very well, interpreting a Roman soldier wonderfully.
Clavius' character arc is very extreme and sudden, and Joseph Fiennes
portrays this very smoothly and subtle, without making too much of a
big deal of it. Tom Felton's character is the opposite of Clavius: he
never believes. Whereas Clavius is determined to find the truth about
Jesus' resurrection, Tom Felton's character never changes, and he shows
this very nicely. I also quite enjoyed some of the comedy between
Clavius and Simon Peter, played by Stewart Scudamore. These two actors
had pretty good chemistry, and portrayed it well throughout their
humor.The hands down best thing this film offered was the perspective. All
films derived from a Bible story are shown through Jesus' point of
view, or Moses, etc. This can work out, yes, but after a while, the
same retold story gets old, and gets old quick. This film is showed
through the perspective of a nonbeliever, one present at and
responsible for Jesus' death. This adds an entire new spin on the film,
and brings a freshness to the story that hasn't been told before.The main problem I had with this movie is the pacing. Towards the end,
there were about three different times where I thought the movie was
over. At one point I even began to get out of my seat. The transition
from one scene to another towards the final shot was somewhat off, and
set off the viewer, wondering if the film was over or not. Other than
that, I had a problem with the character of Mary Magdalene, played by
Maria Botto. She is shown at multiple points throughout the film, and
then just disappears. Did the Romans kill her? Did she leave the city
to teach the Bible to nonbelievers? A few questions went unanswered
with her character.Overall, Risen is a very good interpretation of the death of Jesus,
shown through the eyes of a nonbeliever, which I very much liked. I'm
going to give Risen a B, or an 8 out of a 10.

******
7 March 2016
5
It's nice to see a Christian film make an effort to stick a little
closer to its source material than, say, Hollywood's
special-effects-laden in-name-only "adaptations" of Noah's story from
Genesis and Moses' story from Exodus. It's also nice to see the
well-known story from Scripture as told from the slightly different
perspective of an otherwise anonymous Roman tribune. Best of all is
seeing the actors put some effort into their performances so that we in
the audience don't feel we're merely looking at some cardboard cut-outs
lackadaisically reciting their lines from the script.Being better than Hollywood garbage like Noah (2014) and Exodus: Gods
and Kings (2014) is a rather low bar for this movie to clear, however.
Moreover, while expecting Risen to live up to something as brilliantly
well-crafted as Mel Gibson's Passion of the Christ (2004) might be
setting the bar awfully high, I rather have to fault the movie for not
being as good as Catherine Hardwicke's Nativity Story (2006) or even
the direct-to-video animated Jesus: He Lived Among Us (2011). Honestly,
a few tweaks could have made this movie much more of a contender.To be sure, contriving for the tribune responsible for Jesus execution
and for the unit guarding Jesus' tomb to be the same person, and giving
him the name Clavius (from the Latin for "nails") to promote him to
this movie's protagonist is an acceptable bit of artistic license,
though I think the movie's makers could have gotten a lot more mileage
out of following a named and known historical figure the way Christian
novelist Paul L. Maier did with his historical novel about Pontius
Pilate. (I still long for the day some movie makers dare to adapt that
story to the big screen.) I could even have forgiven it for its
canonical errors of portraying Mary Magdalene as a former prostitute
(which she most definitely wasn't) and suggesting the guards at Jesus'
tomb had actually been getting drunk that evening (they most certainly
had not) if it had kept the quality of its storytelling consistent.
After all, I was willing to overlook a few of Mel Gibson's mistakes in
The Passion (including the one about Mary Magdalene, no less) on the
same grounds.Pilate and Clavius in particular are fun to watch throughout much of
the movie, and some of their lines were particularly witty, though I
would have liked to hear some more. Pilate's sardonically asking
Clavius "Did you win?" when he reports to him in something less than a
presentable condition right after a battle, for instance, was a good
line, but I kept waiting for Clavius to make some witty retort ("You
should see how the other side looks!") that he never did. To increase
the potential irony, he also really should have made some snark about
how frequent and forgettable these battles with Israelite
insurrectionists were. ("The stones and arrows were raining down on our
shields. In Judea, this is what we call 'Friday.'") While the
circumstances under which Clavius is called upon to investigate Jesus'
resurrection are awfully contrived, casting this as an open-ended
mystery that focuses on the character development of the detective
rather than the mystery to which we already know the outcome is a
workable plot. In fact, this plot works perfectly fine, right up to the
moment Clavius finally sees Jesus alive. While the story isn't
completely over by then, this really should have been the climactic
moment at which he either accepts or rejects the mystery's miraculous
resolution. Instead, the movie makes the fatal mistake of forcing
Clavius to continue putting off making this decision so he can tag
along with Jesus' disciples to witness several more Scriptural events.By the time the movie's former protagonist finally makes the decision
he should have made back at the climax, it's not his movie anymore; and
alas, it's not the movie we in the audience came to see either.

******
3 March 2016
9
I love this movie!!! It is action packed so beware because there are
some graphic killings and dead corpses involved. So if you bring
younger kids, this might not be kids' friendly for them. It is a nicely
done "epic" movie on a smaller scale, thus, I can understand that the
movie could have been made grander. The actor Joseph Fiennes is an
amazing actor! He is going to be an up and coming popular, possibly
mainstream, actor. The most memorable parts of the movie were the
spectacular actors of Clavius, Clavius' aide, Pontius Pilate,
Bartholomew, Simon Peter, Mary Magdelene, Joseph Arimatheas and Jesus
Christ. Also a few scenes were well acted such as the beginning
fighting scene of the Romans and zealots, the healing of the leper and
the fishing trip at the sea of Galilee plus a few other Roman raids. My
friend and I enjoy this movie very much. It contains simple yet
powerful gospel messages. Two thumbs up!!!

******
27 February 2016
10
This movie, although a fictional account portrays the transformation of
the hard hearted Tribute who spends the entire movie seeking the
missing body of a crucified Jesus. In the end he finds much more than
he ever expected and it is transformational.Although the Biblical accounts are not fictional their timing is not
exactly portrayed in a chronologically correct manner. The movie has
interactions between Jesus and the disciples that should have happened
BEFORE the resurrection. I believe the writers include these
interactions,albeit out of correct order, to establish a relationship
between the characters (Jesus and the disciples)since the actual
Biblical account does not give us much by way of details following the
resurrection.Overall, I loved the concept of how the miraculous would look to the
unbelieving eye.

******
23 February 2016
10
Really enjoyed this movie with great acting and scenery. It looked like
it was filmed on site and the special effects are awesome. Portrayed
life as it was in the days of Christ. I thought it was well done
without too much murder but showed how combat was in the first century.
It was awesome how the Romans attacked and their defense with their
swords and especially their shields. Very ingenious. Also how the
crucifixtion was so systematic re-using the crosses over again. When
they sealed the tomb they really sealed it. The healing of the leper
was well done and touching. I hope it will leave you with joy and hope
for the future as it did me. Don't miss it!

******
22 February 2016
8
I found it captivating to watch this Roman military tribune's journey
from a non-believing, tired, discontent, soldier, to a follower of
Jesus. The character arc of Clavius is portrayed convincingly by Joseph
Fiennes. The supporting cast are also all solid too. 'Risen' takes a
fresh approach to tell a story that has been told many times before,
and injects new life into it. Though there isn't any reference to Clavius in the Gospels, I didn't
have a problem believing that something like this might have happened.
The Gospel of John in the New Testament concludes with the verse, "And
there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they
should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could
not contain the books that should be written. Amen." So maybe Jesus did
appear to a Roman military tribune, and that man then became his
follower. I'm sure, at some time, one did.

******
22 February 2016
8
I had read some reviews prior to seeing Risen but didn't want to read
too many. I am a believer and have been interested in many of the
evangelical movies coming out but have been a bit wary of the messages.
I watched the preview of Risen and the first thing I thought was,
"That's not in the Bible." I'm certain many Christians have thought
that same thing and are refusing to see the movie. I then read an
interview given by Joseph Fiennes and I knew I wanted to see the movie
even more.I went to the movie knowing the character of Clavius was fictional. I
went knowing the story of the search for Jesus's body was fictional. I
went to the movie with an open mind and an open heart. I wanted to see
how Clavius, a non believer and an enforcer of Roman law, perceived
Jesus and the Resurrection. I didn't go expecting a story about Jesus
and the Resurrection, therefore, I wasn't disappointed and I wasn't
angry. I didn't find myself angry at anything. The movie portrayed Jesus as a loved friend and as the Messiah, which
he is. The disciples were portrayed as those that were just as amazed
and moved by the Resurrection, and that's what they were. And the movie
portrayed Clavius as one who couldn't believe what he was seeing and
"couldn't reconcile" a man who was dead and now alive. Clavius was the
fly on the wall. He represents me and every person who has doubt. What
I loved most was when Clavius and Jesus were speaking (yes,
fictional...whole story line is...) and Jesus knew Clavius's heart. He
knew he searched for peace and "a day without death". I think in that
moment, Clavius knew who Jesus was and what believing in Jesus would do
for his life. All in all a good film. It wasn't preachy and it wasn't so fictional
that it was unbelievable; at least not to me. It moved me in many
places and it made me feel better about my own moments of doubt and
disbelief; and that we are all human. I encourage anyone to see this
movie and have a conversation. It never hurts to explore what we
believe.

******
22 February 2016
10
The death and resurrection of Jesus (Yeshua) is a story that Christians
celebrate and most everyone is at least somewhat familiar with. This
film gives us a look at this story from a powerful, new perspective.
Clavius (Joseph Fiennes) is a Roman Tribune, along with his aid Lucius
(Tom Felton- looks like Draco is playing his father XD) are tasked with
the job of squashing a revolution before it starts. Clavius is the
focus of this story; and a character that I, as a Christian, can relate
to. Disbelief/doubt is something that believers and non-believers both
experience at times in their walks through life. There comes a moment
when beliefs are challenged and a choice needs to be made. This film
embodies that experience perfectly. When you are brought to the point
when your preconceived notions do not match up with what your eyes are
seeing. As we watch the inner conflict tear at Clavius, the completed
picture of the Gospel is pieced together around him. All in all, this
film isn't perfect, but I can say without hesitation that it is my
favorite faith-based film. I cant wait to get back to the theater and
watch it again!

******
21 February 2016
7
Mixture of facts and fiction. It is interesting to see the story
through the eyes of Roman Official. It is also interesting to see him
discovering the Risen Jesus himself. There is no records or even well
documented tradition that it happened but though it is fiction, in fact
it could happen. Unfortunately the action in Galilee is too much of
mixing facts and fiction. It does not sell well. But in general
portraying Jesus and the Apostles in each movie of this kind is a
challenge. Overall, for those who know the Gospel well this film might
be interesting and just interesting. For those who do not know the
Gospel it might be confusing. But the message is there. And it counts.

******
21 February 2016
9
As a Protestant theologian, I rarely go to the cinema to see
"Christian", movies, as they are usually not very well done(production
wise), have poor acting, and stray from Scriptural intent or the
Biblical account of events way too much. With that said, I really only
saw two small scenes where this movie veered from the Bible account,
ASIDE from using a Roman Tribune as an outsider's perspective. In my
opinion, "The Passion of the Christ" movie, though very accurate in
portraying the suffering of Jesus, had much more Catholic dogma and
heretical content in it than this film.The players in this work gave exceptional performances, and it was
refreshing to see an actor cast in the role of Christ as an
authentic-looking Middle-Easterner, instead of a red-haired Irishman as
depicted in many other films. I thought the picture was wonderful, and
I was unexpectedly moved with emotion, in thinking of my Savior, while
sitting in the theater. The wonder of the story, and the beauty of the
Mediterranean scenery and other places was most refreshing. I highly
recommend this picture to anyone who wants to escape to the world in
which Jesus had His ministry, as the sets, costumes, and cultural
depictions were dead-on accurate. I loved it, and He is Risen indeed.

******
21 February 2016
9
** MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS **I felt RISEN was an excellent film. The writing, acting, directing, and
cinematography were all top-notch. I also liked how it didn't have
cheesy music throughout the film. I thought it was interesting to have
a story about the resurrection of Christ, told through the eyes of a
Roman. Joseph Fiennes, who portrayed the Roman, was great! IMO, this
was his best performance in years! I know some critics and moviegoers
had a problem with the ending--which is straight from the gospel of
Matthew. But you have to remember--this movie came from a major
Hollywood studio with assistance from the church. It is NOT an
independent film. So you have to give-and-take a little bit with RISEN.
It's going for a mainstream appeal because it's from a major Hollywood
studio. And it's going to have a faith-based theme because it got
assistance from the church. Aside from all that, I still thought it was
great. RISEN was about the transformation of a Roman non-believer. So
even though it gets pretty biblical during the second-half of the film,
it still shows the Roman transforming. My only complaint of the film is
that I wish it developed the Roman's background a little bit more. Yes,
I knew that he was a great and dutiful Roman soldier, who was getting
burnt out from his job and seeking peace at the end of his life. But I
would've liked to know what his family and friends thought about what
he was going through. And it would've been nice to have him discuss
what he was going through with them too. Other than that, RISEN was a
lot better than I had expected!

******
24 February 2016
6
Risen (2016): Dir: Kevin Reynolds / Cast: Joseph Fieness, Tom Felton,
Peter Firth, Cliff Curtis, Stewart Scrudamore: Could play as a sequel
to the superior The Passion of the Christ but lacking the artistic
risks of that great film. Here director Kevin Reynolds of The Count of
Monte Cristo fame pulls off more unintentional humour than needed. It
is the aftermath of Christ's death on the cross and the body disappears
three days later. This makes for a fine mystery, and the screenplay
offers an interesting point of view on the subject. Joseph Fiennes is
cast as a Roman soldier who oversees the famous event and leads the war
against the Jews. It is believed that the disciples of Christ removed
His body. Fiennes is stricken with curiosity and eventually pulls away
from his duties in pursuit of a whole new meaning to life. Tom Felton
of Harry Potter fame plays a young Roman soldier under the wing of
Fiennes. Peter Firth is cast as Pontius Pilate who demands the
whereabouts of the body in order to prove that Christ was a fake. One
of the worst elements of the film is the over the top delight or glee
of the disciples. Their joy of the risen Christ is understandable but
the actors seem to go into overact mode to convey this. One element
that renders The Passion of the Christ great is its willingness to
highlight an R rating for graphic violence, whereas this film plays it
too safe for its core audience thus losing its edge. Otherwise it
presents an intriguing viewpoint from someone on the other side who
witnesses not only a missing body but also the rise of faith and a
future promising peace. Score: 6 ½ / 10

******
20 February 2016
8
The problem with most bible-themed and faith-based movies is they fall
short in at least one of the major category. (Writing, Acting,
Directing or Production) Risen is a clear difference, hitting on all
cylinders. Joseph Fiennes solid portrayal in the lead draws viewers into a
well-told story. When asked, "What frightens you?" Clavius (Fiennes)
responds, "Being wrong. Wagering eternity on it." In so doing, Clavius
becomes the personification of each and every person who has faced the
truth of the resurrection and said, it can't be true. We are reminded
of the words of Sherlock Holmes, "when you have eliminated the
impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth." For those familiar with the account of Jesus resurrection, Risen
provides a fresh perspective. For those who are not, they will find a
compelling investigation as they see events through the eyes of a
skeptic who must reconcile what he believes to be true with all the
evidence that is laid before him.

******
19 February 2016
6
I must confess, I am not a big fan of religious movies. It is my belief
that art, true art should challenge what we think we know about the
world, not reinforce already held biases. When I see trailers for films
that clearly cater to a fundamentalist worldview I start to shudder.
Their intended goal is not to try to convince non-believers nor to make
those who watch better people. They're there to give comfort in much
the same way store brand peanut brittle does; it's sweet, it kind of
reminds you of a simpler time and it's a product used to pry you of
your money. So imagine my surprise that a movie of this stripe actually
has artistic merit.Risen concerns the skepticism and eventual Christian conversion of
Clavius (Fiennes) a Roman centurion serving the Empire in Judea. He's
tasked by Pontius Pilate (Firth) to handle the recently crucified body
of Yeshua the Nazarene (Curtis) aka Jesus. Three days later, the body
disappears from the tomb and Clavius is tasked with hunting down the
body before the people of Judea get wind of his foretold resurrection.
Helping him with the case is Lucius (Felton) a fellow centurion and
ambitious upstart.The idea of making the story of Jesus's resurrection a detective story
is a stroke of genius on the part of writers Paul Aiello and Kevin
Reynolds, who also directed. It brings a new and exciting dynamic and
coaxes a kind of suspense certainly not seen in other religiously
themed movies. Added to bring a sense of prestige and uncommon acting
prowess is Joseph Fiennes who keeps the detective story just this side
of interesting. Not since The Story of Ruth (1960) has there been a
biblical historical epic just this side of not-terrible. It almost
makes me want to forgive the entire third act from occurring.Unfortunately the third act did occur and the movie suffered because of
it. The film builds its themes on the balance beam between faith and
doubt then completely disassembles it with certainty as soon as the
Book of Luke takes over. From that point on, Clavius melds into the
scenery, a former strong character turned fly on the wall for Jesus's
greatest hits. There's a chase between the disciples and the
non-believing centurions but it remains completely free of atmosphere
and serves nothing to the plot, the themes or the characterization.Many times, even after discovering Jesus alive (spoiler alert), Clavius
expresses doubt. "If you have doubt after what you've seen, imagine the
doubt of those who haven't" says Peter (Scudamore) seemingly aware of
the gospel he's about to spread. Issue is Clavius has very little to
doubt given the information presented. Clavius is downright robbed of a
personal, hard-won epiphany because he was a witness to so much. In one
of my favorite similarly themed films Song of Bernadette (1943), the
movie opens with the quote "For those who believe in God, no
explanation is necessary. For those who do not believe in God, no
explanation is possible." Sanctimony aside, the quote exemplifies the
value of faith. So what does it say when a Roman centurion is basically
given the answers to life's biggest test?I grew up in a Catholic household and went through many a Sunday mass
until I decided religion just wasn't for me. This movie certainly
didn't convince me to fall back into the fold, but for a minute, it did
convince me a movie of this ilk can be passable and even decent.
There's decent cinematography, economical direction and some spirited
acting on the part of Joseph Fiennes, Tom Felton and Peter Firth.
Furthermore it attempted to challenge my view on Christianity in a way
that wasn't condescending, mean-spirited or intelligence-insulting
(cough cough God's Not Dead (2014)). For that reason Risen is art...not
great...not good...just okay...art.

******
25 February 2016
8
RISEN (2016) *** Joseph Fiennes, Tom Felton, Peter Firth, Cliff Curtis,
Maria Botto, Luis Callejo, Antonio Gil, Stewart Scudamore, Andy
Gathergood, Stephen Hagan. Grand and at times poignant re-telling of
the crucifixion and resurrection of Jesus Christ told form a unique
viewpoint, a Roman Tribune (Fiennes in an understated graceful turn)
who is met with the impossible task - locating the body of Christ after
his death as an epic manhunt. Filmmaker Kevin Reynolds, who co-wrote
the screenplay with Paul Aiello, infuses a new breath of fresh air into
the Biblical biopic with the skew of a police procedural (Law & Order:
Judea if you will) but also handles the spirituality of the theme
underneath - love and forgiveness. Filmed with raw beauty by Lorenzo
Senatore and incredible production design by Stefano Maria Ortolani.
Worth seeing on the big screen for the visual grandeur alone.

******
23 February 2016
8
Risen is a story of the faith told as it is from the One roman Point of
view. The story is old and the events may be familiar to each and
everyone. The acting is why I come to see a movie and I was taken. I am
here to give you an honest review . The hero is the main event in the
entire movie and he is the center, forward, quarterback, center court,
champion, winner, Olympian. He is Joseph Alberic
Twisleton-Wykeham-Fiennes. A unique actor with unique talents. Awe
inspiring facial changes but not very obvious as it should in ancient
Roman Tribune. Excellent direction by the Director and great job well
done by the hero. The Choreography, Cinematography, Orchestra, the
scenery are undoubtedly superb. But if one is looking for a new story
or an unusual story then do not get dismayed. It is not about the story
although the story is almost accurate, it is about some real acting and
the way it is displayed. You may say that I am deep. Call it whatever
and try to go there and evaluate it yourself. It is the type of movie
you will not forget the moment you leave the theater. It will haunt you
for the whole night or the whole week. For me it is a thrilling
experience. That is what I like when I am done with a movie. How about
you?

******
19 February 2016
6
I saw "Risen", starring Joseph Fiennes-Hercules_2014, Enemy at the
Gates, Oh Yeah, this is the actor that was just announced as playing
Michael Jackson in a new TV movie called 'Elizabeth, Michael and
Marlon'; Peter Firth-Pearl Harbor, Amistad; Tom Felton-Rise of the
Planet of the Apes, the Harry Potter movies and Cliff Curtis-Fear the
Walking Dead_tv, Live Free or Die Hard.This is sort of an unofficial sequel to the 2004 'The Passion of the
Christ'. The story covers the 40 days following the resurrection of
Jesus and it is told from the point of view of a Roman non-believer.
Joseph is the Roman that is given the assignment by Peter-his Roman
boss-of finding the body of Jesus before he can perform his
resurrection. Tom is an aide to Joseph in the man hunt and Cliff plays
Jesus, or Yeshua, as he is called here. After the crucifixion, Cliff's
body disappears and Peter is afraid if he does pull off his
resurrection, the Messiah just might create an uprising in Jerusalem,
just as Peter's big boss is planning on paying a visit. As Joseph and
Tom search, Joseph begins having doubts about his mission and starts to
think that just maybe Cliff can do what he says. I liked how it's not a
bang-you-over-the-head-with-how-good-Christians-are type of biblical
movie. It just tells the story without getting too preachy. It's rated
"PG-13" for violence and some disturbing images and has a running time
of 1 hour & 47 minutes. I don't think I would buy it on DVD but it
would be a good rental.

******
2 March 2016
6
. . . key elements of Japan's Shinto Religion (as it was practiced in
the Early 1900s), releases the most blasphemous project in Film History
with RISEN. (Sony's Crusade against American Values and
Turn-the-Other-Cheek Christians apparently is perceived as "low-risk;"
Sony knows that EVERY Sony employee and employee family member would be
swiftly beheaded if they distorted Islamic Teachings in the same
fashion that RISEN does with the Holy Bible.) Main-stream Christians
believe that God Inspired (or dictated) EVERY WORD of His Bible, but
Sony says that He forgot to tell Luke that a Roman Tribune name Clavius
witnessed Christ's reunion with Doubting Thomas, then became the
replacement 12th Disciple, then led the Surviving 11 out of many close
calls with Roman soldiers, and then was the LAST PERSON that Christ
spoke to individually on Earth just before the Tribune witnessed The
Ascension (or that the First Pope, Peter, told Clavius that
he--Peter--was not sure whether Christ could be executed for a second
time). Your jaw should drop if someone claims to be a Christian and
then praises RISEN (which gets off on the wrong foot in its first
scene, which shows Clavius nullifying the Book of Barabbas by executing
this zealot a few hours after Pontius Pilate has released him in lieu
of Jesus on Good Friday).

******
27 February 2016
6
Good story but as a drama widely misses the mark. The movie starts off
as a clever detective story but then turns into a story about Jesus, a
story that has been told many times before. The issue is: what happened
to Jesus's body? Those who believe in Jesus already know the answer.
But for a Roman pagan who prays to the god Mars that's no answer. For
the Romans, the body is missing, period, and it has to be found. Such a
scenario has the potential for generating intense drama as the Romans,
searching everywhere for the body, become increasingly frustrated and
desperate as their efforts which, unbeknownst to them is an exercise in
futility, turn up nothing. They need to find the body to debunk the
belief that Jesus kept his promise to return, and thereby destroy the
credibility of the preachings of his followers, who the Romans already
perceive to be a threat to their power. Instead, the Roman assigned to
find the body undergoes some kind of spiritual transformation which, in
addition to being totally contrived, renders the rest of the story
moot. Not only does the audience know what happened to Jesus, now the
Roman knows too. No more mystery; no need for further detective work.
He's now a convert; the mystery is solved.

******
28 February 2016
1
I was once a devout Christian and I was very involved with my church
and I believed everything I was taught. I even seriously considered
becoming a member of the clergy.1. Christianity is not all about martyrdom or victimization. The Roman
authorities also abused many pagans especially Bacchus worshipers and
any pagan who did not bow down before Rome. A person's paganism was no
protection from Roman conquest. As far as Rome was concerned,
Christians were just another cult that did not bow down to Rome. Plain
and simple.2. Watching Risen was like watching a horror movie. I have been going
to movies for for over 40 years so I have some perspective. I realize
this is a current trend. For some odd reason Hollywood thinks graphic
grossness will sell.3. I beg you not to take your children to see this really twisted film
unless you want to deliberately shock them. I guarantee YOU will be
planting the seeds of fear and/or resentment in your children. I don't
need my children to see extreme violence masquerading as spirituality.
How twisted can you get? 4. Many of my family members and friends are Jewish. This film is
subtly or not so subtly - depending on your point of view -
anti-Semitic. Jesus was a Jew, not a Christian. There is not one word
in the new testament telling his followers to abandon their Jewishness.
There is plenty corruption and hypocrisy in every religion. Why the
constant focus on hypocrisy within Judaism? Like this is anything new?
Corruption and hypocrisy affects EVERY religion, my dear Christians! 5. Why the constant focus on past events? Jesus made it crystal clear:
THE KINGDOM OF GOD IS WITHIN YOU! That means whats most important is
what is happening NOW, not 2,000 years ago.6. Last, but not least, the Roman Empire was not nice. Only the Scots
in Scotland and the German tribes in the North prevented Rome from
conquering the Arctic! But war porn and spirituality do not mix. Why do
Christians put up with such nasty crap? Only Hollywood would make a
grossly violent movie about the Prince of Peace and not hear so much as
a peep from the Christian world! You cowardly Hollywood worms try this
with another major religion and see what happens! I can only pray the
Christian world someday wakes up!

******
26 February 2016
2
RISEN –REVIEWRisen is another rationalistic approach to religious filmmaking which
never fails to disappoint. The dialogue is very poorly written. The
characters are not recognizable as coming from the New Testament
narratives. Kevin Reynolds and Paul Aiello have taken a very clever
idea of telling the crucifixion, resurrection, and post resurrection
accounts through the eyes of a detective but miserably failed and
ruined it by giving us a very poorly developed, researched, written,
casted, and acted film from its tragically weak and muddled beginning
to its inauthentic anticlimactic end. One should not place blame on the actors for their poor performances,
but rather, to the poor direction given to them by Reynolds. The main
character, Clavius (Joseph Fiennes), a Roman Tribune, is sent by Pilate
(Peter Firth) to break the legs of Christ on the Cross as an act of
mercy. When he arrives Jesus (Cliff Curtis) is already dead. Because of
Jesus' mother Mary's presence (Frida Cauchi) and her insatiable weeping
at the Cross he dispatches a Roman soldier to pierce his heart rather
than break his legs as a gesture of courtesy to her. Historically,
Romans broke legs to either hasten the death or to confirm it. Neither
Martin Hengel, Crucifixion (1977) nor Gunnar Samuelsson, Crucifixion in
Antiquity (2013) ever reports that Romans typically or optionally
pierced the heart of the crucified with a lance. It gets worse. It
seems the day after the crucifixion Caiaphas (Stephen Grief), the chief
priest of the Temple in Jerusalem suggests Jesus' body should be burned
to avoid the potential threat of propaganda from his disciples that he
is risen from the dead as he had prophesied. So instead Pilate counter
suggests that they seal his tomb and place a guard there. Of course the two men (Andy Gathergood and Jacob Yakob) put on sentry
duty are complaining like spoiled children moaning that they were
supposed to get the night off. To appease them Clavius promises to send
someone who will bring them their supper. He doesn't. The whiners whine
(pun intended) getting drunk and pass out. All of this unnecessary
nonsense caters to the skeptics in the audience who do not believe in
the reality of the physical resurrection, supplying them with ample
plausible deniability. Well, what do ya know, the body of Jesus is
reported missing the next day, it being the third since the
crucifixion. Pilate does not want problems with those very powerful
Jewish priests who seem to have some secret influence over him at Rome.
So he sends Clavius to find the body of Jesus and arrest the disciples
who broke into the tomb and spreading the lie that he has risen. During
the so-called investigation Clavius enters the tomb beginning at the
scene of the crime. There he finds the linen shroud as a photographic
replica of the Shroud of Turin. Very poor choice, indeed! The Shroud of
Turin contains the negative, not the positive photographic image of
Christ. So research goofs and foibles in the film abound. Silliness was also a part of the script and production. The best
example of this weird and very odd aspect of the film was when the
apostle Bartholomew (Stephen Hagan) is brought in for questioning. The
character is straight out of Jesus Christ Super Star or Godspell, a
very late 1960's Encino flower child who ate too many happy meals. It does get worse. Lo and behold, Clavius finds a dead male Jew who was
crucified pierced in his hands, feet and side giving the hungry
skeptics more chewable clatter cluttering up a film purportedly made
about faith. Pilate is satisfied having the corpse, but Clavius for
some unknown reason is not. The weaknesses in the plot only get even
worse. For neither an apparent nor explainable reason Clavius directly
disobeys Pilate, who commands him to go to Hebron where he and his
troops are needed. Instead and inexplicably Clavius continues to
investigate the whereabouts of the body of Jesus, which he already
delivered to Pilate, and is dead set out to find and arrest his
disciples. Go figure! Anyway he opens the door to the upper room
finding the eleven apostles and Jesus all having a jolly good time. And here you have it --- one quarter through the film Clavius is
miraculously converted at this jovial dinning sight and the rest of the
film could have been edited out in the editing room since the so-called
detective story ends. The remainder of the film ineptly wrestles with the consequences facing
Clavius who has now deserted his post and Rome intertwined with new
silly twists to the post resurrection narratives! The originally
intended classic Hollywood big finish must have been the scene where
Jesus is not ascended into heaven but simply disappears in a sonic boom
that hits earth from the biggest sunspot of all time. However, they
changed that as the ending to show a Cecil B. DeMillesque scene showing
the arrival of Caesar to Judea with Pilate saying they will never see
or hear from Clavius again. Let's hope so.

******
19 February 2016
6
When I saw the trailers I was excited, it seemed like there would
finally be a movie about the story of Jesus that wasn't completely
pandering to a Christian fan base. The story of Christ through the eyes
of a nonbeliever they said.It wasn't that. The movie was well done, the directing was clever (if
not a bit overt with all the moving into the light when talking about
the Messiah), writing was pretty intriguing at least in the beginning
and the acting by Joseph Fiennes and Tom Felton was outstanding.
Surprisingly I felt that Tom Felton actually did a better job. This movie starts out really interesting. There's no clear bias. It's
just a man trying to discern truth from fiction in a time where it can
be extremely hard to tell. The inner character struggle of Claviusis
really well done. You can see it pains him to do the things he does,
but feels he must in order to achieve peace. Let's talk about the good parts first, the reason it gets a 6 instead
of a 3. The first and perhaps most important thing is that it isn't
hateful. So many Christian movies nowadays are quick to say anyone who
doesn't believe in their Almighty is a sinner and a heathens. This
movie stays true to Jesus' real message of love and not passing
judgment which is something the Christian community could certainly use
a little more of nowadays. Also on its side it is a slow burn thriller
that keeps you guessing and intrigued for quite a while no matter which
side you're on. It helps that it doesn't make things black and white.
Many of the Romans who did kill Christ they're never painted as flat
out bad, they are rationalizing their actions in a hard world to
navigate. Now on to the bad. It's super biased. I probably should have figured
that going into it, but I got excited about maybe a more scientific or
logical explanation people had at the time for what had happened. I
knew in the back of my mind that this idea would be way to liberal for
Hollywood, but a guy can dream. The writing starts out very strong, but
after they've unveiled their "truth" to you it's as if they stop
trying. It becomes just a celebration of Jesus rather than a story,
which as far as film narrative is concerned is a huge no-no. The other
issue I have with this film is its implications. The main character
starts out methodically trying to find Jesus' body. He uses deduction
and critical thinking to get him quite deep into the whole mystery.
However, to turn around and say, "Hey! Stop! Don't ask questions! Just
follow!" Is a detrimental message to send to people. Critical and
analytical thinking are unimaginably important to achieve a better
world for all of us. This is a big issue and theme running through all
Christian media, the idea of letting Christ guide you and not to
question or think for yourself, if it was pressed any harder on people
it would legally be considered brainwashing.All this said, in my honest opinion there were a lot of parts of this
movie I enjoyed even if I was disappointed with the ending. I think
that the director/writer should have tried to offer two explanations
for what happened and let the viewer decide. There was one point in the film where Clavius talks to Jesus one on
one. I was really hoping at this point he'd say that some stuff was
true and some wasn't, but regardless of what he chooses to believe
happened, it doesn't matter. All that matters is that it's changing
people for the better. But that didn't happen, so oh well.

******
19 February 2016
4
I was under the mistaken impression that this was a detective mystery
set in Biblical times where two Romans are asked to investigate the
death of Jesus. Superficially that is the premise of the story, but
rather than a detective mystery it is more of a "faith film". People
who are looking for a faith film will be more pleased with the film
than I was.The film seems more like a docudrama than a film, as the acting is
certainly understated and the sets are not exactly overwhelming.
Nonetheless it has appeal, and the acting of Joseph Fiennes (the Roman
detective), Cliff Curtis (Jesus), and Maria Botto (Mary of Magdala)
seems sincere.There are problems with the film, the major one being the depiction of
Mary as a street walker (which she wasn't) and the de-emphasis of her
role as a disciple. As such the film has a view of the life of Christ
which is more mid 20th Century than contemporary views.I don't see where this film adds anything to the pantheon of films
about the life of Jesus. It's not a bad film, and as I said, if you're
looking for a faith film you will enjoy it.

******
20 February 2016
3
For a movie that is supposed to be about Christ, He was not much in the
movie. There was no scripture. Just the whole film following the Roman
around. The humor in the movie was disconcerting, the disciples looked
like drunken frat boys. Outside of the Crucifixion scene, there was
absolutely no emotions in this movie, for example in one scene a leper
was healed by Jesus, and after he just walked away. No shouts of joy at
being healed from leprosy, the man just walked away like it was just
another day. I was bored and ready to go. There was no sense of urgency
or drama, there was nothing about the Gospel of Jesus, why He died and
rose in the first place.

******
22 February 2016
2
The adequate performances by the cast leads can't save this. Yet
another well-intentioned, choir preaching take on the Resurrection of
Jesus. This deserves better treatment than what the filmmakers deliver
here.'Faith film's so far are more akin to Hollywood's attempt to properly
portray southerners. They can't. They create cringe-worthy caricatures
and the public assumes that's what they're like. Same problem with
RISEN. MAKE NO MISTAKE: this is not the amazing film these 10 star reviews
would have you believe. They're religious church folks desperate to
prove that their movies are as good and deserving as secular works. All
they're doing is kidding themselves and everyone else.Worst of all, this is a movie that didn't need to be made.What is far more sickening? My Christian brothers are eager to lap up
this kind of z-grade mediocrity.

