******
29 July 1998
10
It gives a million reason why no one should go to war and one very powerful reason to go to war. It is a soul numbing realistic depiction of what 
our grandfathers, fathers, uncles, brothers and sons have faced in humanities darkest moments. Not just in WWII but in any war. No one can see this movies 
without being altered in some way. No one should miss it with the EXCEPTION of those war veterans that have already been there. The surround sound puts the 
audience in the middle of the battle. Steven Spielberg has out done himself and effectively held up a mirror to civilization for events to which we should all be ashamed of, rather than 
appalled at the movie for its real life depictions. I suggest that this movie be made standard view for congress as well as the President each and every 
time the question of war comes up. This movie would not stop future wars but I would hope the objectives would be much more clearly defined. I say this 
as a US Marine.

******
16 August 1999
9

I'd heard a couple of startling things about this film before seeing it. I'd
heard that many veterans were having a hard time getting through the film
without breaking down. I'd also seen interviews with veterans who'd seen the
film and found the film to be incredibly realistic and consequently
difficult to watch. Intriguing comments, since we all know there is no
shortage of films about war from this century.There are not many films that I've seen that have actually made me
physically react to the action on screen. I'm not speaking of the
three-dimensional variety either. What I mean to say is this film had me
contorting and cringing at the gripping, horrifying action on screen.
Somehow the extreme violence can be justified as the whole world knows that
this is an important chapter in human history and a startling, graphic
depiction only adds more weight to the seriousness of the subject matter.
I'd have to say this is probably one of the most important films of the 20th
century because of its frank approach to one of the darkest periods of our
time on this earth. I am always deeply moved and fiercely proud when given cause to consider
those that gave their lives to protect our way of life and liberate those
that already suffered dislocation, imprisonment and attempted genocide.
These soldiers were truly noble and deserve our deepest gratitude. This
sentiment is a common one, and will go some lengths to explain why this film
has meant so much to so many.Even with the attention to detail and care taken into how it was shot to
accentuate to the fullest degree its realistic approach, it is still hard to
imagine what it must have been like to be part of a war. But this film goes
a long way to help your mind get around it. It's hard for me to say what
kind of impact the cinematography would have on someone watching it on the
small screen of a television versus the big screen, but from my perspective,
this film really does benefit from a theatrical presentation.What "Saving Private Ryan" does extremely well, is show the world the harsh
reality of war without pulling any punches. The story about a squad of
soldiers sent to retrieve the surviving brother of three dead soldiers is
told with competency and due reverence from all perspectives of the
characters involved. It is an uncommon and intriguing drama, but it serves
as an excuse to describe a setting, rather than the other way around. The
story manages to move us through all sorts of different landscapes and
scenarios, giving us an unforgettable glimpse of a world unknown to most of
us, and terrifying to those who are familiar with it from personal
experience. 


******
17 November 1999
10

I have never been affected by a movie the way Saving Private Ryan affected
me.  That movie really took me out of my seat in the movie theater and
practically had me believing I was really in the battle with John Miller.
When somebody was dying in that movie, it felt as if you could almost feel
their pain.  Speilberg did an unbelievable job of putting realism into this
movie with the camera-work and everything else.  Simply amazing.  An all
time great.   

******
25 January 2000
10

It's been over a year since first seeing Saving Private Ryan -- it's a
worthy effort by Speilberg--his best since Shindler's List by far. You've
probably heard about the amount of violence, blood, and gore and that's all
true--it's got the Viet Nam movie style violence (and then some) but it's
not gratuitous. Were it sanitized like early WWII movies, modern audiences
probably wouldn't take it as seriously.The movie has that trademark Speilberg style--the structure is all tied up
and unified from beginning to end, the emotional symbols abound, the music
swelling when he's working at your emotions, the hand held camera that
worked so well in Shindler's List to give you a feeling of participation,
camera angles and periods of silence to disorient you (like Shindler),
suspense techniques learned from Hitch... It's a movie that stays with you
for a period afterwards.Hanks will be the early front runner for Oscar after this flick--Academy
members like him AND it IS his best acting job ever. While Speilberg will
likely be criticized for attempting to
manipulate the audience's emotions while keeping a distance from the inner
core of his characters, Tom Hanks reveals a really complex military leader
in this story, and does so without
overacting--somehow it comes from within. While you may not empathize deeply
with many of the platoon, you will still feel something because of the
relationship that is formed with Hanks.After the initial set-up, you will have the opportunity to participate in
the D-Day operation and experience the horror of it. Those who have been in
a real war can comment about how realistic or not Speilberg captures its
chaotic horror in this scene.In my case I again feel very lucky that my draft number was high, so I never
had to face Nam like many of my classmates. Speilberg reminds us brutally in
"Saving Private Ryan" that we All have a debt to pay to the brave souls who
have sacrificed so much for us. What Tom Hanks does with his performance is
to remind us of this debt in a very personal way.


******
27 February 2006
10
Without looking, I am sure other reviewers here have headlined their
article "Best War Movie Ever Made"" and I agree. However, before
briefly discussing the film, let me just say if you don't have a decent
5.1 surround sound system, you aren't going to fully appreciate this
movie (DVD).It's a great film to start with, and sitting in a room surrounded by
five speakers with bullets flying from all directions around you - as
in that spectacular 22- minute opening scene or in the final 45 minutes
of action against the Germans in tanks - is an astounding movie
experience. The sound in this film elevates it even higher.The visuals are outstanding, too. I've never seen so many grays, beiges
and olive-greens look this good: perfect colors for the bombed-out
French city where the last hour takes place, perfect for the faces and
uniforms of the gritty soldiers, for the machinery, the smoke-filled
skies, etc.My only complaint is the usage of Lord's name in vain 25-30 times, but,
hey, when you consider it's tough men in tough times, that's what you
are going to hear. In real life, the profanity probably was worse than
the film. It's hard to picture the brutality of war being any worse than you see
here, but it probably was. This is about as graphic as it gets. The
violence and gore was shocking when this film came out in 1997 and
still is when watched almost a decade later. It's unbelievable what
some of the WWII soldiers went through, but that can be said for any
war. I believe the purpose of this film was to pay tribute to the
sacrifices these men made, and it succeeds wonderfully. Hats off to
Steven Spielberg and to Tom Hanks, the leading actor in here, both of
whom have worked hard for WWII vets to get the recognition they
deserve, not just on film but in a national memorial.Anyway, language or blood and guts aside, this is still an incredible
portrait of WWII. The almost-three hour film is riveting
start-to-finish, especially with that memorable beginning action scene,
probably the most dramatic in the history of film.As "entertaining" as those action scenes were, I found the lulls, if
you will, to be even better. Listening to Hanks and his men discuss
various things as they look for Private Ryan, was fascinating to me.
Hanks is just superb in here and once again shows why he is considered
one of the best actors in his generation.The most memorable and powerful moment among the "lulls," is the shot
early on of the Ryan mother sinking to her knees on her front porch as
she realizes she is about to get disastrous news from the war. Moments
later, Harve Presenell, playing Gen. MacArthur, eloquently reads a
letter by Abraham Lincoln that is so beautifully written, so profound
that it is quoted near the end of the film, too, and I never get tired
of hearing it.This is a man's movie, and shows the horrors of war as few others ever
have. To say it is "memorable," just doesn't do it justice. It is the
greatest war movie ever made....period.

******
15 April 2000
10

The opening beach assault sequences were the most violent, realistic, and
upsetting filming I've ever seen; looked as though the thing was actual
combat footage. The shushing noises of rounds cutting through the air was
the most chilling part of all. Perfect portrayal of the insane stupidity of
war and the anguish of all who enter this most foolish of enterprises. A
must see.

******
26 October 2008
9
Steven Spielberg makes a unique motion picture in regards to the D-Day
invasion of World War II just in the gritty reality of the detail For
more than twenty minutes he revives for us the landing at Omaha beach
No one was prepared for how horrific it really was No one understood
what was going on: The terror, the chaos, the maelstrom of bullets, the
near-deafening explosionsYou really got a sense of what these guys had
to go through Within that perplexity, the focus settles on six soldiers under the
command of Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) after they've survived their
terrible hours breaking through the first line of German defense,
they're given a strange perilous mission, to find one man, Pvt. Ryan
(Matt Damon), a paratrooper who's somewhere behind German lines For
them, it's an abstruse order, but they have to get it doneThroughout the film, Spielberg's attention to detail is amazing For
me, the most chilling scene in the movie is the death of an American
officer It's one of the most intimate It's also a slightly confusing
moment because two German characters resemble each other so greatlyToward the middle, a German soldier called "Steamboat Willie" is
introduced By the end of the film, he has become the 'bad' German
Later in the movie, another German is involved in the final fight He
takes part in an exceedingly painful scene of hand-to-hand combat with
the American soldier The two German soldiers have similar short
haircuts and black uniforms Because they looked so much alike, many of
us have believed that they're one character They're not, and the
distinction of the two is very significant

******
13 November 2001
10

An amazing and compelling insight to warfare. Umbelievable camera
shots/angles bring World War 2 to life especially for the US troops on
D-Day.
The use of flash bullets, and color saturation just add to the effect of a
killing ground that not many people survive to come back
from.


******
19 October 2006
2
Great film is an illuminating thing: it shines its light into the dark
recesses of humanity, revealing the greed, hatred, and hypocrisy that
fester there. Bad film is often just as revealing: its existence and
reception serve as a mirror reflecting the hearts of its intended
audience. Saving Private Ryan is a classic example of the latter, in
the flickering light of its propagandistic glow, the American people
stand revealed for what they really are: stupid, self-absorbed, morally
unsophisticated rubes ready to be fleeced by the first charlatan who
comes along and tells them what they want to hear."Saving Private Ryan" is typical Steven Spielberg fare: a big budget
spectacle, bereft of style, filled to the brim with childishly
heavy-handed moralizing and peopled with facile "characters" who exist
only as cardboard cutouts for the ensuing morality play. Even the
film's underlying subtext is an old Spielberg standby - America
GOOOOOD, Nazis BAAAAD. The plot of Saving Private Ryan revolves around a simple moral
question: is saving one life worth potentially sacrificing the lives of
many? This fourth grade ethical dilemma is played out for nearly three
hours over the background of the brocage of Normandy in the hours and
days immediately after the D-Day landings, and is handled with
Spielberg's usual wandering attention, ham-fisted lack of subtlety and
babbling pop psychology. Spielberg being Spielberg, there's never any
doubt how the question will ultimately be answered (hint: with
saccharine sentimentality in front of a tombstone - because, obviously,
the same scene wasn't manipulative enough when it was used to close
Schindler's List). The film opens with thirty minutes of unremitting carnage as US
soldiers assault Omaha Beach. This opening scene has been hailed for
its savage realism, but it is in truth one of the more cynically
manipulative sequences in recent memory, full of irritating,
disorienting jump cuts, pornographically Gibsonesque attention to gory
detail, camera tricks and special effects artifices, all accompanied by
a deafening soundtrack designed to overwhelm our capacity to think
about what is being portrayed on the screen and to push us to simply
immerse ourselves in its reductive US vs. Them POV. When I saw this
film in the theaters, the audience cheered when the first German
soldier was killed, then cheered again when American troops murdered
surrendering Germans in cold blood: this, I'm sure, was Spielberg's
intent.Having bulldozed and buried any hint of the moral ambiguity of war,
Spielberg gets around to the heart of the movie. It has been discovered
by the War Department that one Private Ryan (Matt Damon) is now the
sole surviving son of a family who has sent five sons to war.
Unfortunately, Ryan was a part of the paratrooper drop that preceded
the Normandy landings and is missing behind enemy lines. In a moment of
supreme hokum (complete with a quotation of a letter by Abraham Lincoln
that wouldn't feel out of place in a Ken Burns documentary), Army Chief
of Staff Gen. George Marshall (Harve Presnell) decides that an effort
will just have to be made to save Private Ryan.At this point, Saving Private Ryan becomes just another
motley-crew-of-experts flick. A team of caricatures is assembled: the
tough-as-nails seargent; the feisty Italian; the pious Southern sniper
with Talent on Loan from God (if the historical setting had been
Vietnam, I'm sure this character would have been replaced by Cuba
Gooding Jr. as The Magic Negro); the REMF pussy - all led by Tom Hanks
in the role of Tom Hanks, Captain Everyman. Call them the Sanitized
Seven. Battles ensue. Some of the caricatures die (does anyone really
remember which ones?). The Germans never miss an opportunity to remind
us how EVIL they are. One wehrmacht man - having been saved from
certain death at the hands our intrepid heroes by the earnest pleas of
the REMF - returns only to slowly and sadistically stab an American to
death. Oh those tricksy Krauts! In the end, Ryan is saved and Tom Hanks
is dying. But it was all worth it. Cue the graveside maundering. USA!
USA! USA!The problem with Saving Private Ryan is the problem with everything
Spielberg touches. More broadly, it is the problem of the American
commercial cinema. Lacking the courage of any real conviction, it
cannot offer any challenge to its audience. Instead, it panders to that
audience with easy answers, impressive effects, a soundtrack that booms
and tinkles in all the right places and a nice mom's apple pie pat on
the back for every red blooded American. What's missing is even the
faintest glimmer of awareness that the world doesn't break down neatly
into heroes and villains, cowards and the courageous, us and them. In
the place of subtlety, it gives us spectacle, in the place of art, it
delivers technically proficient propaganda.

******
15 November 2006
2
War films can be broken into two basic categories; the propaganda film,
which celebrates bravery and patriotism; and the anti-war film, which
shows the suffering and futility of war. The most extreme propaganda
films are usually produced when a war is threatened or actually in
progress and either demonize or belittle the individual enemy soldier.
This is useful for both inspiring the home front and for assuring it
that there will be an ultimate victory. While these films play well
with a wartime audience they appear somewhat silly when viewed in a
post-war environment. An exception to this war-in-progress concept was is "Saving Private
Ryan". Cloaked in an anti-war facade, this film was more typical of
what would have been produced in 1944 (its setting) than 1998 (its year
of release). Under its thin anti-war facade of realistic looking destruction,
Private Ryan breaks with the characterization elements that are
essential for classification as an anti-war work. Almost by definition
anti-war films use a faceless enemy ("Paths of Glory") or portray the
enemy soldier as sharing in the suffering and futility of war ("The
Enemy Below"). Often they are portrayed as victims of a fanatical
leadership and the audience is invited to identify with or at least
understand them ("The Longest Day"). This is because after a war, both the victors and the vanquished have
an incentive to portray their enemy as brave and determined, otherwise
victory is hollow and defeat is humiliating. Not so in Private Ryan; if
the German battle performance and basic infantry tactics shown in the
film were representative of what was actually practiced, a single
allied division could have occupied all of Germany by the end of June
1944. The final battle scene alone makes the viewer wonder how, facing
such a totally inept enemy, the war could have gone on more than a few
days after the D-Day Landings. Among the most obvious:A sequence where American soldiers run back and forth in front of a
Tiger I tank without drawing the fire of the tank's machine guns. These
tanks had internally operated machine guns, which would have easily cut
down these soldiers. Knowing this the soldiers would not have exposed
themselves to this fire. Tanks entering an urban area ahead of infantry, driving down the middle
of the town as if on parade. Instead infantry would flank any defensive
position on the street and secure the area immediately ahead of the
tanks so they do not come into range of anti-tank weapons. These
tactics were validated during early fighting on the Russian front and
became operational imperatives for all Panzer units. A Hitler Youth dagger found in the trench right after the first bunker
is taken on the beach. The men in these bunkers were mostly older
second-tier draftees and Ukrainian conscripts. Normandy was not
expected to be the invasion target and it's highly unlikely that a
member or former member of the Hitler Youth would have been assigned to
these marginal units. But it was an excellent way to make the audience
less squeamish about the brutality inflicted by the allied soldiers
when these German units attempted to surrender.So just what is "Saving Private Ryan"? The first 24 minutes are a high
budget remake of the "Longest Day" whose less expensive landing
sequence conveyed more tactical believability about the process of
securing a beachhead. The next 90 minutes are a mistake-ridden, choppy,
and contrived remake of "The Big Red One". Ultimately, this overlong
odyssey said less about patrolling behind enemy lines than "Kelly's
Heroes"- a counterculture comedy whose serious scenes and character
development were superior in almost every way. Then there is the finale, a total rip-off of Arthur Pohl's "The Bridge"
(1949), which focused on a handful of recently conscripted German
schoolboys who fight for control of an inconsequential bridge during
the last weeks of the war. They were at the bridge because of a series
of accidents and they naively stayed there because of their youthful
idealism and sense of duty. Like Private Ryan, most do not survive the
engagement. What is notable is not that Pohl was able to make a much
better film for a fraction of the cost (that is not particularly
unusual), but that he was able to convey more perspective four years
after the event than Spielberg could manage 50 years later.But these criticisms of Private Ryan are based on the assumption that
Spielberg's intent was to make a worthwhile war film and there is
simply nothing to support this assumption. More likely Spielberg's
agenda was make money while subtly refuting post-war portrayals (such
as "Das Boot" and "Cross of Iron") of the German soldier as something
more than the sub- human creature of WWII propaganda days or the
cartoon villains of his own "Raiders of the Lost Ark" series. The genius of Private Ryan is its success in packaging this sick
message inside a commercially successful film. At the time of its
release and its almost universal acclaim, this aspect of the film was
largely unrecognized (and unexamined) by both audiences and critics. In
this respect it owes less to the war films it shamelessly plagiarizes
than to early 1950's cinema, where McCarthy-paralyzed Hollywood
directors resorted to subtle themes that went undetected by studio
executives and regulators. Only recently has its status begun to erode
as individual critics more carefully examine its elements, away from
the euphoria that surrounded its initial releaseAlthough "Saving Private Ryan was popular, remember that the "Rat
Patrol" ran for 58 episodes, watched by television audiences who were
also entertained by similar silly nonsense.Then again, what do I know? I'm only a child.

******
1 September 2003
1

  I was hoping for an accurate war film for a change (take
 a look at the Battle of the Bulge for a really bad example).
What Spielberg shows us in his Omaha Beach scenes makes me wonderwhich Omaha Beach assault he is trying to portray. Those who
know
little about the battle (that's almost everyone who's in the
theater)
probably now have the idea that every other soldier who landed on the beach
before noon was either blown to smithereens or badly wounded.Believe me, the 1st and 29th Divisions would have been annihilated if itwere as bad as it's portrayed and would never have been able to scale the
cliffs and rout the enemy by early afternoon, which they did. I wonder, for
example, how wide most viewers think Omaha beach actually was. In the film
it looks about a couple hundred yards. It was, in actuality, almost ten
miles wide. The timing was also inaccurate - Hanks goes up the cliffs at
what appears to be 8AM. Nobody made it before 11AM.
   Another historical error is the implication that the events at
Omaha
were similar to those on the other four assualt beaches (Juno,
Sword,
Gold and Utah). That's totally incorrect. Utah Beach, for example, the other
US assault beach, took about a dozen casualties - many of those due to
accidents during the landing rather than from enemy action.
   But the worst part of the movie was the completely idiotic
script.
Here we have the US Army sending a squad(a squad!!!) to march straight thru
the entire German 7th Army (something two Divisions, with total air
superiority couldn't do for weeks), waltz around an area of 300 square
miles, and expect to find a guy named Ryan. If they wanted to do any of this
nonsense, the Army would have sent them in on the gliders that flew into the
area the very next morning. "Gliders, what gliders"?  said Spielberg. That's
what happens when you have a scriptwriter who doesn't
know very much about his subject.  A stupid, stupid film. What a
waste
of $100M or so. 

******
21 March 1999
1
Of course the first combat sequence was great, but unfortunately I was
considered a sociopath for snickering at a man wandering around to pick
up his dismembered arm while the camera is still shaking on the ground
-- it becomes obvious Spielberg tries too hard to elicit the emotions
from a cynical person like me. I eventually become sick and nauseated
at having been forced to watch the ultimately annoying and repetitive
guerilla cinematography while the violence and mayhem prevails. Is it
supposed to depict the reality of war? Maybe yes, but all it does is
always impact, impact, impact and I felt little or no emotion. After
the first sequence, SPR stooped for the lowest level -- and I tried to
keep awake during some tedious parts, but I ended up snickering and
laughing at a few utterly lame and manipulative scenes (Remember Edward
Burns' arrogantly stoic character and Tom Hanks' Capt. Miller's
speech?). One of the biggest problems with the film is the audience at first
showed distain for the translator because he's a "coward" (why the
critics say this in their reviews is beyond me) and then cheered when
he shot one of the German soldiers to death just to show his courage --
I found this disturbing. After the final battle, the music began to cue
and there comes the greatest manipulative climax I've ever seen -- from
the slowly progressing (and clichéd) morph scene to the banality of a
final nationalistic scene with the U.S. flag waving for another 25
seconds. After I left the theater quietly, I let out intense rib-aching laughter
all the way driving home. This is what Mr. Goldman observes as "phony
and manipulative, to serve our Country". I'm sorry if I sound crude,
but I debunk SPR for being blatantly manipulative and hypersentimental
on par with Patch Adams, another worse movie that year.This is my honest opinion - to observe, dissect and criticize -- and I
don't trust the critics anymore because they went overboard just for
the realistic depictation of war violence, calling the movie "the
greatest war movie ever made!" In truth, older war movies are much
better in terms of writing and acting (Path of Glory and The Longest
Days) -- despite the fact they're tame for not being profane and gory.
And most importantly, SPR shouldn't be shown in English classes in high
schools just as another critically overrated The Clockwork Orange
shouldn't. It only serves to desensitize the kids because of the "war
is bad" propaganda coupled with the U.S.-saluting totalitarianism. The
epitome of a double-wham hypocrisy just like the propagandizing Nazi
films.

******
26 October 2006
1
In a historic and artistic context, here's a question that would bother
Spielberg if he thought about it for a second: what if there was no
such thing as special effects? If we take the special effects from his
movies, would they still be great? What, you're waiting for an answer?
Just like every Spielberg movie, we find Steve desperately clinging to
special effects like a fish to water. Like Bush to oil. Like Uwe Boll
to a video game-to-movie conversion (last one is not necessarily bad,
by the way).Just like everybody else, I was amazed by the "realism" of the first 5
minutes. Once you get past the battle scenes, there's not much to work
with. I'm glad people (as manifest in the growing number of low reviews
here) are starting to realize this.Let's set aside the absurdity of the "plot" (I use 'plot' very
loosely). That's just a vehicle; a pretext; an excuse to use special
effects (Spielberg's one and only leverage). The main plot is that a
mother lost a number of her sons, so the general (or whatever his rank
was) thinks she shouldn't lose her last remaining son, Ryan. He reads a
letter Abraham Lincoln sent to a mother who went through a similar
experience during the civil war. Using musical cues and closeups,
Spielberg is not trying to tell us how to feel; he's practically
*begging* us to do so. After all, he knows better than anybody that
people will - during the course of the movie - realize that the battle
scenes aren't that numerous or long, so there better be some story to
back the movie up.Since he knows that he's addressing a crowd that made movies like
Armageddon and Independence Day box office hits, he (correctly)
realized that the script needs to be comprised of one element only:
text. So long as the script contained text, it was good enough. And he
was right. With enough flash and special effects, he was able to appeal
to the idiocy of the average American, a tactic mastered by Jerry
Bruckheimer, Michael Bay and their likes.Now, back to the 'plot': once you set it aside, you'll realize that
this movie is trying to instill many ideas into the minds of the movie
goers. When he shows German soldiers, he shows them from a distance, so
by not giving them a face, a human side, he teaches us that it's
totally OK to thrill at killing them. Bad German bad! After our heroes
free a German, Spielberg makes is very clear that he came back later to
kill Tom Hanks. Spielberg is saying: they should've killed him the
first time. The only good German is a dead one, apparently. Astonishing
dishonesty and malice on the part of Spielberg. Not a trick was a
spared to demonize every single one of them.Unlike masters of movie making (a title Spielberg will never come close
to) like Scorsese and Coppola, he desperately needs musical cues to
tell when to feel sad, fearful, excited, etc. His approach to emotion
is so utterly sappy, shallow and downright laughable that it's
virtually impossible for him to let the scenes and the story speak for
themselves. He must have very clear cues to give the viewers signals.
The music is like a slap in the face. Spielberg manifests in moments
like "tell me I lived a good life", grabs you by the throat and ORDERS
you to shed a few tears. Insulting. Pathetic.The only good part in the movie is the whole scene of the mistaken
identity, where they realize this whining little weakling crying his
eyes out is not the Ryan they wanted. Other than that, and looking at
the chutzpah of the musical cues, the absurdity of the plot, the
dehumanization of the Germans and the hilarious warfare errors, the
movie is only good for another laugh, albeit not one Spielberg was
aiming for.

******
31 August 1999
1

Visually, the best WW2 movie.
In other ways, far from the best.
The movie is loaded with errors and falls into demonizing
the German soldier and praising the American.
A few examples, far from the reality the combat scenes show the Germans
acting like cattle without ANY strategy at all
they just run and shout,
one funny part is the behavior of the German tankers,
they drive in a ruined village in a VERY narrow street,
like
they have never heard of ambush!
-One starts to think if the script writer has ever heard ofthe capabilities of the German panzer crews,
SS-Captain Michael Wittmann attacked and destroyed 48
armored fighting vehicles alone in a single action!
The most absurd part is the -"Macgyver/Rambo scene"-when Capt. Miller and
friends start to throw the mortar grenades
slaughtering a few dozen Germans.
The most unforgivable error is that there were NO
SS-units with Tiger tanks operational in Normandy at this
point of time.
This movie is way overestimated.

******
18 October 1998
1

The opening of the film is visually stunning and really hits you in the
face. But when Tom Hanks and his buddies have made it through the first
enemy line this film turns in to a Hollywood war movie in which good and bad
are clearly divided between the  Americans (according to Spielberg, there
were only white American teenagers and Tom Hanks participating in D-Day) and
the Germans. The way in which he portays the reallity of battle also is not
very objective(as history should be portrayed) whenever an American soldier
gets shot, the audience is manipulated in feeling his pain and when a German
soldier gets shot the audience is made to feel the excitement of victory. We
are also made to belief that the German soldiers really liked it there
killing Americans, while on the other hand the Americans are righteous
believers in God and really have a lot of problems when they have to kill
some one.
Well Spielberg marketed this all as an important history lesson he had to
tell, well he really must hate Germans depicting them in a way as he does in
Saving Private Ryan

******
22 September 2004
1
Saving Private Ryan, Spielberg's continued descent into narrow,
arrogant, low-brow revisionism, is at best a languid patriotic
trump-calling movie with nothing better to do than applaud the
"glorious, morally superior American armed forces", who were in
actuality nothing but teenage thugs who beat German prisoners and raped
French women and looted European cities. He starts off with Kleenex totting bravery and then leads us into
brutal images that have no other point than to entertain the violent
video game minded geeks of American malls, he then regresses into heavy
handed sentimentality that leads the viewer to conclude that Americans
were all "good guys". This is not the case, history has shown us so.
Americans, for all their good intentions in World War 2, were just as
loathsome as the Nazis, they had a deep segregationist attitude in the
States which killed people because of skin color, arrested and
imprisoned innocent, hard working Japanese people and locked them in
concentration camps, kept black soldiers in separate units which often
were the lowliest positions, fire bombed non-tactical European cities,
most notably Dresden, hired former Nazis to combat the "communist
threat" and finally, dropped two atomic bombs upon an innocent Japanese
civilian population. And after the war, things got even worse, the "Red Hunt", which
resembled the trials in Nazi Germany in the 1930's occurred under a
madman named McCarthy. So if you want to be blindly led by Spielberg's
glorious war message that is simply propaganda, then by all means do
and watch this film which has no redeeming qualities.It is truly amazing that people unaccustomed to great films should
reveal this one to be the "best wars film ever" as if no capable
director had ever attempted to bring the horror and stupidity of war to
the screen. Perhaps, instead of giving Spielberg the automatic credit
of creating the war genre, they should go out and rent "Come and See"
(Russian), The Burmese Harp (1967), Fires on the Plain (1959) or Paths
of Glory (1957), truly far superior films to this
Hollywood-bastardization and candy treatment of war. There is
absolutely no plot in this uneven film and the whole landing at D-Day,
according to Spielberg, was in some way just a side show to saving
"Private Ryan". With such a simplistic statement, it is easy to see why
most reviewers revel in the sense that 'action, action, action' is
equated with 'greatness'. I only guess that because they must be
entertained that directors continue to keep punching out such
opportunistic filth. While most viewers, who are safely tucked away in
their houses, waving American flags and discharging a few tears,
saying, "You German scum! You German scum!" can truly appreciate blood
and guts as "cinema" then there is a market for it. After you get
through the puerile premise, then you can sit back, have a few beers
and watch heads explode in the carnage that has no intellectual meaning
and is the most cliché-driven rubbish that has ever been produced. The scenes themselves are overdrawn, stolen from previous war films
from the 1950's, namely the Longest Day (1962) which was a great film
in itself. The beach landing is too long, and it shows only the
Americans as "heroic" while the Germans are seen as "evil Hun scum".
Tom Hanks, in his most idiotic and candid self, seems out of place as a
leader of a bunch of rejects that are entrusted to save Private Ryan
and in one completely absurd scene, the remaining 15 Americans defeat a
battle hardened, superiorly trained SS special unit group with just a
few guns. Now, if you know anything about history, then you would know
that the SS were not an "easy group" to defeat, they were some of the
most fanatical and well-trained soldiers of the German Reich but since
Spielberg thinks we all are just a bunch of idiots, he'll continue to
manufacture such inconsistent story lines. This is only a tear jerker movie and it does nothing else, I would
suggest watching "Hell Is for Heroes" (1962) with Steve McQueen,
because it is a lot better and we don't have to be forced to carry an
American flag at the end.

******
14 September 2003
6

War movies have often been one of Steven Spielberg' specialities. This one
achieved a huge public and critic success. What drew the attention in this
war movie are fight sequences. They're extremely violent and bloody. We have
been rarely so far in the reality of fights. It's difficult to forget the
first half an hour of the movie during the Normandy landings. Spielberg's
sober and showy directing increases the phenomenon.However, you must admit it, the movie is based on a trite, plain even
conventional story. You could use this last word to describe the famous Ryan
soldier. Indeed, he's told that he can go home because all his brothers have
been killed. Instead, he wants to keep on fighting.Apart from this and in spite of a few weaknesses, "saving private Ryan" is a
thrilling war movie.   

******
2 September 2006
1
When I saw this movie in 1998 (in England), it was a big disappointment
for me in many ways. As not mentioned here for the first time, the
first 20 min of the film are technically impressive. What follows then,
is just stupid, one-sided and is - at least from the viewpoint of a
German - invidious. I cannot understand that a man with over 50 years
of life experience (Steven Spielberg) can make such a stupid film about
second world war in 1998, or my explanation is that this man has no
character. The second disappointment, perhaps the bigger one, were the
reports that in the United States this movie was received with
overwhelming applause and ecstatic feelings of patriotism. This is only
a film, but it also tells you something about what people really think.
Before that, I had thought the Americans were (at least since 50 years)
our friends. After this film and especially the reception of the film
by the broader audience in the USA (as I had read about it in
newspapers and magazines), I thought: they may be our collaborators in
many ways, but they are not our friends.

******
30 December 1998
1

"  SAVING PRIVATE RYAN   "I thought that this Movie was going to be a masterpiece. Topping those
great Anti-War films of "Apocalypse Now" "The Boat" and "All quiet on the
Western Front"But alas!  What am I to expect from America?  The Truth?
NEVER!Yet another great, expensive war film, where the Germans fight like
Italians,  TOTALLY arrogant to anyone else.  I mean HONESTLY an American flag
at the start and at the end.  Showing the American and French flags.  The
ENGLISH and CANADIANS DID land on Normandy too.  The only reference to anyone
else is an insulting comment about Monty.The Germans may have suffered a bit more on the eastern front than the
Americans in France, but that doesn't matter because they were on the wicked
side.This is the kind of film simply made to win another Oscar for Speilbergs
already crowded shelf.  Not a ground breacker, not a truthful film. NOT even
historically correct!!1.  Radar was a TOTAL secret.  No American privates or captains would have
ANY idea of what Radar was.2.  Germans, especially those of the SS, would NEVER be stupid enough to
attack a ruined village with Tanks first. It was common military knowledge
for both sides.3. The P-51 D mustang, which blows up the Tiger Tanks on the bridge,  were
NEVER tank destroyers, they were only used as long range bomber escorts
during the invasion.  The only Tank destroyers being employed at that time
were BRITISH.  NOT AMERICAN. So of course the Americans would take out this
imperfect feature.Frankly, if you're American, you can go get your gun an' feel patriotic once
again, as you have done with "The dirty Dozen" "Where Eagles Dare". If you're not American, avoid this, and stick to "The Boat" for your WWII
viewing.  

******
11 October 1998
6
Before I saw the film, I have read the comments. Many of You liked
Spielberg's new movie. But some of You, mostly from the U.S., write things
like "proud to be an American" or "part of American History" or "every
American should see this movie".First of all, I want to say that this war must have been pure
terror. National Socialism was an indescribably evil disgrace to humanity.
Many of You have grandparents who fought proudly against the Germans in
World War II, but I (as a 25-year old German) and others have Grandparents
who were bombed out of their homes at night and could not get a whole
night's sleep ever since. My parents were born during the war, their first
baby-impressions were gunshots and explosions - for years!
Nowadays, in Germany it still is common to find old, still explodable bombs
when building a new house.Second, this is not American history, it is not German history, it
is World history - Our history. It is the blackest spot ever to be found in
the history of the human race.Third: I don't mean to be rude, but I think that many people have
lost the connection to reality. In the first place, making a war movie has
two major aspects: Making money (bad) and Reviving History for educational
purposes (respectable). But then, feeling history is completely different.
In my very neighbourhood, there was a Concentration Camp, only some 53 years
ago. I have been to that beach in France, and let me tell You: Just seeing
the sea, the sand, the dunes really scared me rigid. Talking with my
grandma (she led a baby nursing home in that time), that's history. Just
sitting in a movie theatre, listening to SDDS and watching Tom Hanks cry is
a different experience.What I want to state here is that there is quite a difference
between a movie (may it be as realistic as possible) and real history. This
really happened! Millions of people were slaughtered in the most cruel ways!
By other people! When I go to my University building, I see the holes in the
wall which have been there since the war. They have never been repaired in
order to give people something to think about. From exactly
that building, Sophie Scholl and her friends threw Anit-Nazi papers into the
crowd and got executed only a short time later.I think the film is quite accurate, actually. It is not the most
impressive war film I have ever seen (that's  "The Bridge" from 1959), but
it shows how the war was like. In all aspects. Anyway, how can war films be
"good" or "best"? "Saving Private Ryan" is an exceptional educational
masterpiece, it should be recommended together with "Schindler's List", but
it is only a movie. It cannot replace reality.So, I recommend this: Watch the movie, everyone! But also think
about the real people of any nation that were cruelly murdered in those
years, and think about those who lived through it. Even think of those who
were with the regime and still walk the earth. Then, book a ticket for
Europe, see the Normandie for yourself, see Berlin, see Dresden, see Munich,
see the wounds of history. And see that being German is not the same as
being a Nazi. After You get home to wherever You come from, I promise, You
then will have a different view of reality.

******
12 April 2006
9
I will just start off with saying that this is an excellent movie. Tom
Hanks' character is superb as he again proves that he is one of the
best actors still going today.The direction is magnificent, bravo
Steven Spielberg who shows that war is absolutely not glamorous.
Spielberg can enthrall audiences like no other.The battle on Omaha
beach was powerful ,extraordinary stuff.We start this movie with the attack on Omaha beach, D-day 1944.Captain
John.H.Miller(Tom Hanks)leads his regiment up on to the sands meanwhile
being bombarded by Nazi gunmen.When Omaha Beach is seized by the American and British forces John is
asked to embark on a mission to save a soldier who's three brothers had
just died and who now has a ticket home to his grieving mother.John
agrees and begins the task of saving Private Ryan all the while his
regiment wonder why they must risk their lives to save one man.This is a great movie but very intense and powerful.The battle scenes
are superb.A definite must see for any lover of great movies.Go watch
this movie one of the best in its genre. 10/10 - Unmissable

******
9 July 2000
1

This movie serves two purposes: a) glorify the American soldier from World
War II and the American nation in general and b) help Mr. Spielberg overcome
his own neurosis about being Jewish, a task he started with "Schindler's
List." That probably makes him the envy of anyone who ever saw a
psychologist: to get paid for spreading out your psyche instead of having to
pay for it.The first 20 minutes of this movie are amazing, indeed. Very well captured
is the sheer horror of landing on a fortified beach; the disorientation, the
killing etc. But after that, this movie drops on the level of "Armageddon":
a mother has a number of sons, all of them died during the war, except one
and the US military surely puts the life of half a dozen soldiers into peril
to save that last one. Of course, that is completely logical.The German soldiers, in the contrary, don't seem to have mothers or anyone
who cares about them, they are ugly, lean-mean-killing machines, shouting
incomprehensible things and should be killed wherever possible. They are
also not just as scared as any other simple soldier on a battle field, they
don't have any feelings at all. So, what could have been a great movie, with all the money spent for and
stars on it, playing in the same league as "All quiet on the Western Front"
gets to be completely pathetic, unrealistic, super-patriotic and one-sided.
Steven Spielberg once said that he often didn't feel he was a "real"
American and was left-out because of him being Jewish and that the past of
his family haunts him. It is ok to feel that way and I wish him he will
finally get rid of both feelings. But on the other hand he also was left out
of getting an "Oscar" until "Schindler's List." That was a well done movie,
but on the long run it seems it didn't do Spielberg too good. Somewhere he
must have come to the conclusion that doing movies about WWII helps him
overcome his problems and making them patriotic will help him getting an
Oscar.If you are interested in a realistic look on war, watch "All quiet on the
Western Front" or "Das Boot."

******
24 August 2001
1

Especially that Joe guy below. There is a big difference between an
ordinary
German soldier and a Nazi. Ordinary soldiers fought for their country, just
like the Americans. They thought it and their lives were in danger, just
like the Americans. Many Americans found out their enemy was just like
them.Now, people the belonged to the Nazi party, and their own personal
military,
the SS, were the ones who killed the countless number of
Jews.Anyway, this movie was much overrated. It really does demonize the Germans.
I mean, my father was one of those men and they suffered as well. All he
wanted was for Hitler to die and for the war to end.

******
31 January 2016
10
Numbing shockon a cellular levelmotivated me to return to the theater
a week later, to experience it again. I was not in the least
disappointed. Indulged myself by acquiring the DVD soon after its
release and reliving the experience on numerous occasions! In RYAN,
Spielberg succeeds in getting inside the viewer's head by immersing us
in his ingeniously structured cascading time-lapse glacier of chaos,
resulting in a 2½ hour free-fall rush into overwhelming impotence. RYAN
seers the hell of war into every pore of your psyche, like no other war
movie before or since. Watching it is a delightful exercise in
masochistic pleasure.Certainly, anything but war friendly, Spielberg's 1998 classic, the
highest rated war themed film in the history of cinema (#33-IMDb Top
250 today), only makes oblique reference to the diabolical nature of
the Nazi juggernaut. RYAN tenaciously and consistently drives home the
only "shades of gray" nature of the nuts and bolts, day-to-day, moment
to moment decision options available in the heat of battle! I offer, as
an example of this, various moments of on screen interaction with
German prisoner of war, nicknamed "Steamboat Willie"Just watch,
eventually you will understand! Also, I think a special note of recognition is due to Denise ChamianIf
the name doesn't ring a bell, don't feel badshe did not register with
me either! Her name appears for The CASTING Credit of RYAN. Superb job,
Ms. Chamian!(Minority Report/Big Fish) She has been nominated on
multiple occasions by the Casting Society of Americabut RYAN seems to
be her only win! (An extremely well deserved one, in my opinion) The Ensemble cast also received a Screen Actors Guild Nomination in
that category. After having seen RYAN at least 10 times, I stand firmly
by this accolade: One of the BEST Ensemble performances ever! To anyone
out there who hasn't seen RYAN, maybe because of its War or Action
genre labelThis is one hell of a humanistic Greek tragedy that you
simply must see! To those of you who have seen it once or twice, but
who haven't in years.Please give it another lookYou won't be
disappointed in the leastRYAN only gets better with each viewing! ENJOY!/DISFRUTELA! Any comments, questions or observations, in English o en Español, are
most welcome!

******
9 November 1998
1

Saving Private Ryan is an example of a genre of film making that should have
died out long ago. Far from being anti war, it is a glorification of war.
While the Americans are righteous, the Germans are evil, and Spielberg
invites us to enjoy the spectacle of their death. German prisoners should be
murdered, (or else they will come back and kill you, so do it to them
first).

******
12 August 1998
2

Spielberg just about had it here, at least for the first half hour or so. He
 looked at the bone-crunching, grisly history of D-day and had the movie to
 put it on the screen with some respect for honest reality. Then, with his
 Hollywood sellout lack of vision, Spielberg decided to throw it all away on
 patriotic fantasy. The 'true' story the film may be based on has some
 chaplain in France discovering Ryan after word was passed along that his
 brothers had all been lost and the lad should be shipped back to America so
 his mother still has one child to work the farm. Or, the story could be
 straight out of the writer's head but it hardly matters. The premise itself
 strikes the viewer as utterly ludicrous after a half-hour of complete
 slaughter, the seas red with human blood and gore. We are expected to
 believe that an army chief is sitting in his office and worrying over
 Private Ryan and his family while the assault on Normandy is costing
 thousands upon thousands of lives, while the allied bombers are missing
 their mark up and down the coast and Hitler's machine guns are just mowing
 down allies like grass. What romantic rubbish and so typical of Hollywood.
 And the portrayal of the German prisoner is morally offensive. The German
 people have never been less human than Americans, even when they were lead
 by an evil leader into a war.  To portray them as Spielberg does the
 prisoner, a bumbling idiot who later becomes a murdering snake, hissing
 shhh as he slowly sinks a huge knife into an American chest, is low-brow,
 hateful stuff. But nobody is going to notice. Believe me. In fact, we love
 to see the world in black and white, simplistic terms.  Here come the
 Oscars for Spielberg. Americans (and my own Canadians too) are generally
 not prepared to see the truth about themselves. Capital 'D' Denial reigns
 supreme, especially at the box-office. Spielberg's big budget is spent to
 further anesthetize us while claiming to be trying to do justice to the
 truth. If he'd stayed on the beach at Omaha, he'd have a nine out of ten.
 Instead, he rates several points less for this updated version of that old
 T.V. series called Combat. Please see Amy Taubin's review at the following
 URL. It's much more articulate and generous than mine. http://www.villagevoice.com/ink/film/30taubin.shtml

******
25 January 2002
4

I remember when the hype when SPR was first released: " Gawd it`s so
realistic , it shows the true face of war , it`s like being there man" I
also remember that these claims were made by civilians with no experience
of
the military or combat ( Maybe the next time a film audience wants to
experience the horrors of war, the cinema might like to stick a sniper
behind the screen to pick off sundry filmgoers. That would be realistic )
To
this day I haven`t heard a single D-Day survivor comment on the realism of
this film.Yes I agree that the opening 20 minutes of SPR are outstanding as is the
final battle at the end but the outstanding visuals fail to disguise the
very average script that is no different from a John Wayne or Errol Flynn
star vehicle. There`s very little depth to the story which seems at odds
with the anti war visuals.I will defend the film slightly from the allegation of pro American bias.
It`s an American film , made by Americans , with American money for a
primarily American public. For a more subjective view on the Normandy
landings see THE LONGEST DAY , or better still read the book. But the
comment on Monty was uncalled for , Bernard Law Montgomery spent 4 years
on
the western front ( 1914-18 ) he was disgusted by the slaughter he saw
there
and made needless casualties his main concern. I bet the red army wished
for
a general like that on the Eastern front. Oh and Monty won the battle of
El
Alamein , thought I`d just mention it.So just to sum up SPR has some graphic battle scenes overcoming a flawed
script. It`s a good film but nowhere near being a masterpiece. Maybe if
it`d
been set during the Korean war and been a lot more cynical it`d might have
been a true classic. But as it is it`s a case of a B movie script saved by
a
brilliant director

******
29 November 1999
1

The more I think about this film and read differing reviews about it the
more I feel it wasn't meant for me. I'm a Finn, not American. I don't know
if Spielberg meant this film as a last hoorah for the G.I.:s, but to me
that
is what he made. All right the film does have something to tell for
everyone: in the insane theatre of war one should try to do the right
thing,
have courage to do it, that your actions have consequences, war as a whole
creates nothing but bad feelings and probably something else too but
nothing
that has not been told earlier.And I suppose that isn't so bad, I mean there have certainly been worse
films. But what does bother me is that Spielberg set out to do a film
about
what war is really like and to me, he failed. Yes I have seen the opening
scene and to me it was more about exploitation and action film then about
anything else and not even very memorable action. Even if one would skip
all
the omissions and strange things about the film (in the landing scene no
naval artillery support, no air force support and the illogical German
tactics in the final battlescenes) to me the main plot is a strange
curiosity that only serves to illustrate that the average soldier wasn't
that interesting or important. Apparently with some links to reality the
main plot remains distant and odd to me.With Oscar, block-buster, critically acclaimed material as ww2 with all
the
gore how could Spielberg go wrong? First of all the acting. Well I could
not
stop wishing there would have been some lesser known actors used, maybe
even
amateurs. A lot has been made out of the cinematography and yes, it is
good.
Although to me it is not so effective when there is apparently too much
money to make a film and then the camera work tries to make it look more
realistic. As ww2 films go this film is a far cry from "Come and See". Yes
I
do admit that flag waving is a common problem among ww2 movies, I just
wished that Spielberg could have avoided it.

******
20 March 2001
1

This is one of the single worst films I have ever seen.  Spielberg
was, once again, intoxicated by his own sense of patriotic
splendour.
The first major flaw in this film struck me the first time I saw it.  I
was in the theater and began to ask myself, "How could Ryan
remember the D-Day invasion when in fact he was never there?"Now, honestly, how did Spielberg expect to get away with that one?
It was never explained or followed up in any way.
Secondly, how did he expect to get away with portraying the
Germans as mindless, blood-thirsty grunts?  "Well they were,
weren't they?" says the blindly patriotic american.  This aspect of
the film is a disgrace to Germans and more importantly to the
brain-washed americans.
Finally, I would just like to point out the fact that this was not a
war to rescue individual men in order to preserve their family line.
This film makes a mockery of WWII by completely misrepresenting
it.  The only aspect that was accurately portrayed was the violence,
which sadly enough drew many people to the film.
Two thumbs down!

******
22 October 2003
1

  The problem with Saving Pvt Ryan is that is is basically afraudulent portrayal of the Omaha Beach landings. Every
single
detail may, for all I know, be authentic for the group
portrayed,
which I assume was Goranson's Company C, 2nd Rangers. But that company, with
one notable exception, experienced the worst that Omaha Beachdealt to the assault troops during the hours 0630-0800. Thus you get
an
extremely biased view of the typical experience of those landing
at
Omaha. For example, the entire 5th Ranger Battalion (Col Schneider) (6
companies) landed at 0740 with a cost of only 4 wounded.  It all depended on
where your landing craft touched down (or allowed it to touch down - Col
Schneider was supposed to land right where Hanks was , Dog Green, but had
the sense to order the craft eastward), and Capt Hanks landedat the very worst spot on the entire 4 mile long landing area. And troops
walked up the slopes, they didn't crawl up, inch by inch,
etc.
Nor where they under murderous fire ascending the slopes - very few
casualties were taken during those actions. 
Total casualty rate for the first 14,000 or so troops that landed in the
first assault waves (0630-0800)was not much over 10%, far different from
what you see portrayed in Ryan. If you want to learn the history of Omaha
Beach 
read the US Army after action reports or go the US Army Historical
site.
Don't bother with this movie or Ambrose's nonsensical book or The Longest
Day. They are for made for entertainment purposes and only mention the
disasters,etc. Beside, Ambose has been known as a plagiarist and creater of
non-existent eyewitnesses.( It's worth noting that he was hired by Spielberg
to "authenticate" the scenes. He's a 
very poor historian and not very knowledgeable about WWII. I found
tons
of errors in his books about D Day and Citizen Soldiers). Anyone who sees Pvt  Ryan comes away with zero knowledge of Operation
Neptune at Omaha Beach. 
After the beach scenes,the rest of the story can be summed up in a single
phrase : "Call the 101st on the radio, and tell them to pull Ryan from the
line." That's all that the Army would have had to do to save Ryan.Sending a squad thru enemy lines to search a 100 square mile area for a guy
named Ryan, while fighting is occurring every 100 yards is about the most
preposterous idea for a story I ever heard of. But then, that's Spielberg.
Anything to get the customer excited. No matter how realistic the scenes may
be (I wonder about why those Rangers are moving against a prepared position
all bunched together - they would never have done that ) the total picture
provided the viewer is totally unrealistic. One comes away from the movies
knowing practically zilch about Omaha Beach. That's a damn shame. It was an
interesting story, although nowhere near as gory as Spielberg's fantasy
portrait, as is 
obvious from the casualties taken (approximately 2000 for the 24 hours of D
Day by Forces "O" and "B" (60,000 troops)). 

******
28 August 1999
4

I don't think anyone is ever going to argue how great that opening landing
sequence is  just the shear chaos in which those men were consumed  I
found the chaos comparable to the scene in `Platoon' where they assault the
V.C. bunkerhowever, it does not (any part of the movie, in my mind) match
up the finale of Platoon, in which one is so confused, your heart pounds,
and it is in the end more horrifying than any of the combat sequences in
Private Ryan.What really got to me about this film, were several things thoughfirst and
foremost, is the `dumb German' syndrome, which leaves me with a bias
feeling.  Why in the end, did Miller, Ryan, and Sarge have know problem
mowing down the by passing Germans, then survive the same gauntlet, with
almost twenty German's firing at them?Another thing, is I couldn't help but notice how far people flew through the
air whenever hit by a mortar, or stepped on a land mineor hit by a
grenadeso on, so on.  I won't pretend to be a war-vet, or someone who's
witnessed this, but it seems unlikely to me.  However, I'll stress my own
ignorance, and say `don't take my word for it.'All in all, I found it to be a worthy action flick  comparable, in my mind,
to `The Big Red one.'  It has sad moments, and moments of brutality, but in
the end, just left me with impressed memories of some of the combat
sequences.As a sidenote, I think that the best ww2 films ever made are "The Thin Red
Line" and "Bridge on the River Kwai" two films that don't deal heaviliy with
combat (TTRL more so).  Saving Private Ryan tried just a little to hard to
force feed it.  I recomend all of these films, but for your knowledge, those
are to me, the best.

******
10 April 2006
2
I have read most of the comments about SPR and I must say I agree with
those who resent and loathe the film. I went to see it last week, and I
was terribly disappointed. I was disappointed mainly because of the: 1.
The sentimental awkward frame 2. The vomit-inducing score 3.Rotten
dialog 4. Moral hypocrisy But most of all I was disappointed by the predictability of the plot.
We all know from the beginning who will die and how. It is no surprise
that Tom Sizemore.. dies last followed by Hanks..maybe this is the
love-story of the film? When the best buddy dies Hanks literally throws
himself at the bullets. American films don't really need women
basically it's all about bonding in the forceful wilderness.. if it
isn't Indians it's Germans and the rest of the world doesn't exist not
even in Europe.I know these comments may be a trifle vengeful or sarcastic but I love
movies I am not one of those freaks who only watch French films and
thinks everything else is crap.But I HATE to be disappointed when I've
had such great expectations. I totally agree with the comment on the
motivations of the geek character shooting the runaway German. What was
that all about? Wasn't the point of his release to show that the geek
was more humane than the rest of them? The knife scene seems rather
erotized to me two men so close to death(and not the little one I may
add)and penetration, whispering ..slowly, slowly in German. I find this
extremely disturbing where does this fit in? I don't have much else to
say but I have lost my faith in Spielberg's abilities(What's the point
of having a sniper citing from the bible?)As far as I am concerned he
hasn't made a thrilling scene since Dreyfuss built that mountain in his
living room in close encounter, and that moment is far more realistic
than any scene in SPR !!!! What is the difference between this film and
other violent films that earn money? The plot structure is exactly the
same, the characters are the same, the music is the same. (The moral is
the same pasted nicely to a waving American flag) The only difference
is that something similar (so realistic...)happened in the past. If
people can become wealthy this way I have given my support to
Spielberg's bank account for the very last time. The best war film ever
made is still STALINGRAD!!!!!!!!!!! But I guess no American will know
this before someone makes an American version all I can say is : I hope
it wont be Spielberg..

******
19 June 2007
1
This is for those, who think SPR is realistic.DDay happened on 20m-s and under 15 minutes! Oh yeah! The US government
is so kind that they risk 8 guys for only one. This 8 breaks trough
German defense lines. Every German soldier, who fought in the war were
an evil Nazi, who couldn't aim, and ran into every single American
bullet! The only one, they let to go is a bad Nazi SS Soldat who is
hungry for revenge! Medics are used in frontal attacks against an MG!
Americans are able to shoot into Tiger Tanks and throw grenades into
them. SS surrenders to a small little guy who couldn't even hold his
weapon properly! This movie is truly over-hyped made for the Americans as a propaganda!
If I would be an American i would rate this movie 10/10! But i'm not...
Beautiful photographics though, but this won't save the movie.10/1

******
5 February 2007
4
I give this movie a four out of ten because the cinematography was
good. Other then that it was crap. The acting is terrible especially by
Vin Diesel, how the heck did he get that role anyway? The plot was
ridiculous and boring, the script was very poorly written and over all
I am disappointed in both Tom Hanks and Mr. Spielberg. Now I know
Spielberg loves to make movies about that era, of course he was too
young for that war and too old for the next one, but hey, he's richer
then god, he can exploit anything he wants. The movie follows soldiers
in the 75th ranger regiment as they land on the beaches of Normandy.
(best scene in the movie). Tom Hanks is then given an assignment to
rescue Matt Damon and bring him home because all of his other brothers
were killed in combat. So almost every man from Hanks' squad dies but
eventually Ryan gets saved. The Germans, of course are all incredibly
unnattractive brutish men. In reality the war was fought by a bunch of
twenty-somethings on all sides who had no idea what they were getting
into. But the Hanks-Spielberg team completely redeemed themselves with
band of brothers. So do yourself a favor, skip renting this, pay a
couple bucks more and pick up all ten episodes of B of B. It's a true
story based on real heroes of WWII, and the acting is not bad. Thats
all. Save your money if you want to see saving private ryan, wait for
it to come on ABC.

******
1 February 2003
1

It's the World War II era ... and nobody smokes.There's only one person in this movie who opposes war .... his
"cowardice"
winds up costing lives.For a moment, it seems there's ONE nice person in the nation of Germany.
The merciful American soldiers let him go.  This turns out to be a huge
mistake, as he returns, days later, with a group of his friends to kill
them
all.  Lesson learned - there is not even ONE reasonably nice
German.The movie ends with a salute to the American flag and blasting, inspiring
music.Was this movie made for two-year-olds?When it comes to subject matter as complex as war, I think simple-minded
movies like this do more harm than good.  I'd recommend a movie written
at a
more grown-up level.  

******
21 December 2005
1
You have to love a war movie, which just like 'Goonies' is based around
a serious of characters, all of which have one defining characteristic,
and go on a quest, finding out who they are along the way.As 'Goonies' had the fat kid, the Asian genius, the smart-arse; 'Ryan'
has the religious guy, the cowardly guy, and smart-arse, among others.
As the 'Goonies' fought impossible odds, so too do the American
soldiers of the 'Ryan' cast.And WWII is seen as it really happened, with the Heroic American's
fighting for the cause of good single-handedly, against those crazy
Germans! Canadian's, British, French, and even Commonwealth soldiers
don't feature on this Western front. And nor would they, with this
being an American film starring Tom Hanks, they should be neglected
from such "history". There's only room for the central character's and
there quest for flag waving glory!When this film was first released it was sold as being so accurate it
was a history lesson within a piece of entertainment. But blood and
guts don't make for accuracy. And American's, for whom this was meant
only saw war as a glorious celebration of the stars-n-stripes. To this
day, America has used WWII not as a warning, but as a starting point.
Lost in this film was the supposed anti-war message, with nationalism
the resounding lesson that this filth passed onto it's American
viewers. George W. Bush must surely love this piece of violent film
making at it's worst.Forget about this Goonies rip, and just check out the original, it's
far less offensive, and a lot more entertaining.

******
30 January 2002
5

In "Saving Private ryan" the characters are so stereotyped("the
brave";
"the cute";"the rebel";the timid")that the critics and audience should be
ashamed of.Why we should forgive the director's mistakes just
because
he is "Steven Spielberg"?even some of the gruesome scenes of the
film
seem stolen from a real war documentary,SPR is a lot more inferior
than
the deep"The thin red line" and to give every award of the planet to
Spielberg is just ridiculous and childish,you just make him more spoiled and
rich!.


******
18 June 2015
10
Saving Private Ryan is a military movie based during World War II. The
movie starts with the invasion of Normandy at what is now known as D
Day. Captain Miller, who is played by Tom Hanks, leads his troops onto
the beaches of Normandy against the Germans. Once they are able to take
the beach, they learn of story of Private James Ryan. James and his
other four brothers are scattered throughout Europe battling in World
War II. The United States Headquarters learns that all of James's
brothers have been killed in action, leaving James the only sibling to
survive. The United States Military learns that his mother will be
receiving all news that all three of his brothers have been killed in
action. In a plot to give his mother some type of comfort, the Military
sends Captain Miller and his troops on a hunt to find Private Ryan and
tell him what had happened and to get him back home.The theme of the film is courage. Throughout the film the soldiers show
tremendous courage in their journey from the beginning until the end.
The soldiers had to go through one of the most horrific and bloody
battles from World War II and had to show tremendous courage to make it
and take the beach. After they took the beach they had to go on a
journey in order to find Private Ryan. They had to search throughout
Europe to find Ryan while going through several battles and their own
battles with each other. They lost many men including Corporal Caparzo.
All of those men lost, just so that they could get Private Ryan and
send him home to his mother.Lighting and sound effects were two major techniques used in the movie
to enhance and capture the attention of the viewer, and to create a
very lifelike impersonation of what those scenes were like in real
life. When Caparzo was shot by a sniper the scene was very dark, it was
raining and there was little visibility for the soldiers due to fog.
The surround sound of the rain made it very intense and made it feel as
if you were right there. The sound of explosions going off at every
corner captures the moments of war that make it horrible to be in. It
makes you after these scenes make you think to yourself what it would
really be like in a war like that and if that's how it really was.Saving Private Ryan is one of the best military movies of all time. The
courage that these men faced with themselves and to find someone that
none of them knew was extremely heroic. They made it possible to help
with a grieving mother who had lost not one but three sons in the heat
of battle in World War II. This movie is a must see so that we can try
and understand what these young men and women had to go through and
sacrifice in order for us to live in freedom.

******
12 May 2015
9
This film is an absolute masterpiece. It shows that war isn't always
glamorous. Steven Spielberg won a Best Directing Oscar for his work on
this film and the film went on to win four others. It is gritty and
bloody and it shows that wars aren't won by weapons but by soldiers.
The cast shine as the group of soldiers tasked with finding Private
Ryan. Along the way they encounter the harsh truth and real meaning of
war. It boasts impressive battle sequences and the stylish
cinematography makes the film truly beautiful. The opening beach
sequence is possibly the greatest opening scenes in movies. Tom Hanks
is spell binding as the commander who has no idea about the harsh truth
of war. Overall a truly amazing film.

******
6 October 2002
5

Take away the gratuitously gory opening scenes, and what you have is an
average war movie. Yes, war is hell, but just being explicit about what a
bullet or shell can do to a human body isn't going to turn you against
war.
Personally I found this movie exploitative.If you want to see what the effects of the Second World War were really
like, then ignore the movies. Instead check out the classic seventies
series
'The World at War'. Far more shocking and sickening than any Hollywood
blockbuster.

******
29 May 2002
6

so overrated. this film relies is saved by its gore and superb performances
from tom hanks and tom sizemore. i dont see what the deal is all about.
outside of jaws, and the indiana jones trilogy he hasnt made an excellent
movie in his entire career. this movie is made cheesy by its use of a
flashback to frame the story. not only that, it drags in parts by adding
humor and trite dialogue where it should be focusing on the action. i think
most of the credit to this film should go to the director of photography,
the effect and make-up crew and tom hanks and tom sizemore. too bad that
stalker never made it all the way to spielberg.

******
19 February 2002
4

I heard so many great things about 'Saving Private Ryan' that my curiosity
for this movie turned to pure shock as I watched it. I have to say that I
really do not like war movies, so thats an obvious bias against this
movie,
but there were sooooooooooo many things about this movie that just made it
a
laughing stock of me and my friends. The cinematography in this film is
simply amazing, in fact i'd say some of the best cinematography i've ever
seen, but despite it's technical excellence, SPR is a pathetic,
manipulative
attempt by Speilberg to make him feel better about himself. The only
character development in the movie takes place in the scenes before that
particular character's death, it's happens in EVERY case; it's like
clockwork. The ending is absolutely horrendously manipulative, and in fact
the whole story doesn't really make sense as a result of it. SPOILER
ALERT -
don't read any farther if ya don't want to ruin the flick for yourself. At
the beginning we have the shot of that old man at the grave, then it
closes
in on him and his memory begins of what happened... the only thing is that
we find out the old man is really Ryan, not Tom Hank's Character, so i'm
wondering how Ryan has all these memories of the beaches and the rest of
the
movie. Theoretically shouldn't the 'memories' start when Ryan enters the
movie? Oh well, I can see arguments against my point, but the use of some
certain camera angles REALLY makes the point of saying that the old man is
Tom Hanks. I found this movie, above all things (even manipulative) to be
extremely boring. Here's another case of a movie that had a about a 12
minute story stretched out to infinity. There are hundreds of little
things
that made me laugh about this movie in the wrong way, and obviously I
won't
go into all of them but I do feel this movie makes the German Armies look
rediculous, specifically in the tank scene. There is many shots of the
American soldiers running across open areas with dozens of germans
shooting
at them but they hardly ever get shot, while the Americans seem to hit
somebody with every single bullet, and three people with every explosive.
Other humorous moments include Tom Hanks diffusing a potentially hostile
situation by telling everybody that hes a school teacher and the
weak,poetry
loving-'i've never shot anybody'- soldier killing a guy for no real reason
in the situation. The performances were pretty good, I guess, but the
script
was so laughable that most of the things the guys say make you crack up no
matter how well they say them. If you wanna see a good war movie, see
Platoon, or if you hate war movies like I do, and you feel like watching a
war satire, check out Starship Troopers.

******
20 October 2014
10
If it weren't for the group of people with a personal hatred of America
and our military, this movie would have a higher overall rating on
IMDb. This movie is phenomenal. From the horrific depiction of D-Day in
Normandy to the final battle, this movie keeps you entertained and
worried for the safety of the main characters. This movie will tug at
your heartstrings if you have a heart. The acting really draws you in
and the plot, while a little out there, is very engaging and creates
for an amazing journey behind enemy lines.This movie will forever be the greatest war movie ever made. The brutal
realism and gore are hard to watch at times but is necessary to fully
show the horrors of war.All I can say about this movie is don't expect your favorite characters
to make it out alive. I was pretty upset originally when my two
favorite characters in the movie died, but that just adds to the
realism of the movie. People died. Your friends died. Heroes died. War
is Hell, and full of heroic sacrifices. This movie is a must see for
any American, though I believe foreigners should enjoy this movie as
well. An excellent 10/10 from me.

******
15 November 2010
6
'Great' is such a big word, you can fill it with so many expressions
like spectacular, thrilling, heart-breaking, gut-wrenching, emotional,
inspirational etc. etc. My problem with "Saving Private Ryan" is that
it has all these elements but still ... at the end, I have a big
feeling of 'emptiness', it's like all these things cancel each other
out.The opening sequence is one of the most spectacular you'll ever see in
a War movie, Spielberg knows how to deal with visual effects and the
sound editing, the shaky movements of the camera gives a realistic
depiction of the chaos dominating these battles, even the word 'battle'
is too feeble to describe the intensity of the massacre. The sky is
gray on this D-Day, the sea is reddened by the sacrifice of these young
soldiers, the air is a vicious enemy that can send you a bullet where
it feels like to. Your life is as worthless as money in a lottery.
Indeed this opening sequence was very promising, but I had mixed
feelings after. I hoped the movie would stay in the same level of
realism and greatness on one side. On the other side, I wished it
wouldn't contain other sickeningly violent sequences. Unfortunately,
none of these wishes were satisfied.The film flirts with fantasy right after the battle sequence, where the
mission of Captain Miller's men is finally exposed. They will have to
save one soldier, Private Ryan, the only one left to a family who
already lost 3 sons, his brothers. To spare a tragedy for one soldier's
family, eight of them will try to find him and risk their lives. We
don't know this Ryan yet, he's only a name, a quest, but we get used to
these characters, we follow them and have sympathy for them, but at
each step of their odyssey, one will be killed. It becomes almost a
routine. We're not supposed to think of their family, or the loss
caused by this mission. They just die and the mission must go on. It
seems that Ryan's life has more value. At this point, I remember
"Schindler's List" beautiful statement "Whoever saves one life, saves
the humanity" but the people who were saved, didn't choose their
destiny, they were victims, the alternative was death. Ryan wanted to
be a soldier, to fight, he never wanted to be saved, isn't the movie
about duty, wasn't Ryan accomplishing his? So what's the point of
risking the lives of soldiers who want to fight instead of looking for
a man who's not a prisoner, to save one who didn't ask for it.
Nonsense, and dangerous reasoning implying that some 'external'
elements make your life more valuable than the others.Which in fact, brings me to the biggest problem I had with the film.
Life's value. The movies tries to be inspiring by making these soldiers
heroes, but to make them heroes, it creates villains by totally
dehumanizing the enemy, when a War movie makes me cheer for one human
being killed, I feel manipulated, and I become distant ... when a
coward like Upham becomes Rambo at the end, and when Steamboat Willie
revealed himself as the sneaky bastard they thought he was ... I said,
okay, Spieleberg is pushing the Manichean button a little too far. Of
course, when you consider the atrocities committed by the enemy, it's
impossible to root for the soldiers equally, but that's the challenge
when you make a war movie, you can make a Manichean blockbuster (easy
choice) or a disturbing masterpiece (challenge) ... I disliked "Saving
Private Ryan" for the same reason I loved "All Quiet on the Western
Front", "Paths of Glory", "Apocalypse Now", "Platoon" or "Das Boot".This movie is great in all the meanings of the word and that's the
problem, it's "too great", it tries too much ... I loved the opening
scene, and another one will torture me forever, it's the scene where
Melish begs for his life when he lost the fight, that part killed me
... it felt so real, I couldn't breath ... literally. To conclude, a
solid block-buster movie with some unforgettable scenes but not the
inspirational masterpiece they claim it to be.

******
21 June 2010
6
Count me among the group of dissenters that thinks "Saving Private
Ryan" is 20 minutes of technically expert film-making capped by 140
minutes of monotonous war film punctuated by treacly and typical
Spielbergian emotional histrionics.Spielberg's attempts at meticulously recreating the Omaha Beach
invasion that take up the first half hour or so of this film are
stunning. But the film grinds to a halt after that with a lame story
and shallow characters that go nowhere. Spielberg wants us all to feel
guilty (doesn't he always) about what soldiers in WWII went through,
but his way to do that is to throw brutal violence in our faces every
few minutes. The thing is, it's not the violence that makes other and
better war films bring home the horrors of war to its audience; it's
the depiction of what war does to a man's psyche. It's another film
from 1998 set during WWII combat, Terence Malick's "The Thin Red Line,"
that stands as the year's masterpiece about war. But audiences ignored
that film because Malick wasn't willing to hold their hands and tell
them how they should feel, something Spielberg could teach a class in.Grade: B

******
11 December 2008
5
Lately, when Hollywood produces war movies, they focus on the debacle
of Vietnam. Not director Steven Spielberg! Instead, the incredibly
versatile helmer of "Jaws," "Schindler's List," "The Color Purple," and
"Jurassic Park" skewers a patriotic chapter of American history on a
bayonet with his graphically realistic but otherwise sappy "Saving
Private Ryan." "Saving Private Ryan" ranks as a second-rate World War
II movie with a first-class cast and top-notch production values that
pass inspection with some of the most savage combat carnage ever
lensed. As demeaning as this criticism sounds, "Saving Private Ryan" is
one of the top 25 World War II movies. Since "Saving Private Ryan"
swamped moviegoers with cutting edge combat action, Ridley Scott's
"Black Hawk Down" and Sylvester Stallone's "Rambo" have eclipsed it
with even greater cutting edge violence. If the story had been as memorable as the kinetic, blood-splattered
battle scenes, "Saving Private Ryan" might have been a classic.
Essentially, "Saving Private Ryan" is a ten-star movie until the U.S.
Army gets off the beach and into France where it devolves into just
another standard-issue G.I. Joe war epic. Anybody who knows anything
about combat movies will cringe the first time that they see the hero
parading about in a helmet with the captain's bars painted on the front
like a bull's eye. This is an egregious error! During World War II,
officers didn't advertise their presence in this manner for fear that
an enemy sniper would single them out for a bullet in the head. Okay,
I'd dismiss this lapse of realism as a dramatic liberty except that the
film itself raises the same point. A seasoned dogface (Vin Diesel)
warns a rank amateur to stop saluting the captain for fear that a
sniper will shoot the captain down.Dispersed throughout the movie is the usual quota of Hallmark speeches
about valor, loyalty, and redemption. These platitudes add little
dimension beyond the obvious to the purely physical rat-a-tat-tat.
Spielberg could have trimmed much of this sappy dialogue and upgraded
his movie. Running nearly three hours in length, this rowdy, often
profane World War II melodrama creates a deeper impression with is
grotesque special effects than with its drab, sometimes improbable
tale. Told from the perspective of the infantry, "Saving Private Ryan" is a
movie in the grand tradition of Louis Milestone's classic "All Quiet on
the Western Front," Samuel Fuller's "The Big Red One," Lewis
Milestone's "A Walk in the Sun," and William Wellman's "Background."
Granted, none of them boasts the extreme combat that "Saving Private
Ryan" commands, but they are solidly-made, engaging war movies with
deeply personal stories. The muddled but high-minded screenplay by "Fly
Away House" scenarist Robert Rodat follows a unit of U.S. Rangers on a
public relations mission to rescue an American paratrooper. Captain Miller assembles a collection of stock characters to help him
locate Private James Ryan of Iowa. Ryan (Matt Damon of "Good Will
Hunting") has gotten lost behind enemy lines in the pre-dawn parachute
drops that preceded the June 6th D-Day Normandy Invasion. When the War
Department discovers that Ryan's two brothers bite the sand at Normandy
and that the Japanese have killed a third sibling a week earlier,
General George C. Marshall (Harve Presnell of "Fargo") decides to pull
the last Ryan out of action. Along the way, Miller's G.I.s bitch about
the irony of risking eight lives to save one guy. Before "Saving Private Ryan" grinds to its sanguinary conclusion, the
Biblical theme of singling out an individual from a multitude for
redemption grows tedious. Spielberg and Rodat, along with uncredited
scribes Scott Frank and Frank "The Shawshank Redemption" Darabont, seem
confused. Are they making a fiercely repellent anti-war movie? Or have
the drummed up a gung-ho Hong Kong style, kick-butt actioneer? They
pile on enough violence for a platoon of war movies. Bullets zip and
zing by the hundreds giving death an impersonal omnipotence.
Presumably, the filmmakers hoped their grisly depiction of combat would
eviscerate the memories of those flag-waving John Wayne propaganda
sagas. The sadistic horrors that occur in "Saving Private Ryan" seems
more commercially than philosophically oriented. We don't think so much
about how terrible war is as how miraculous it is to survive.The first 24 minutes of "Saving Private Ryan" dwells on the famous
D-Day landing at Omaha Beach. Spielberg shows the baptism by fire that
befell the seasick G.I.s as they waded ashore into a murderous Third
Reich shooting gallery. This is the best part of this movie and
guarantees it an immortal place in the ranks of all great combat epics.
After the scary, visceral D-Day prologue, the film settles down long
enough for Miller to receive new orders. Eventually, Miller locates
Ryan with a bunch of paratroopers guarding a bridge behind Nazi lines.
Ryan refuses to leave his buddies in the lurch. Reluctantly, Miller and
his squad prepare for the worst. This part of "Saving Private Ryan" has
a lot of action, but it cannot compete with the 1960s ABC-TV show
"Combat." Tom Sizemore makes a credible sergeant, but the usually
dependable Edward Burns plays a soldier that would have been shot by
his own men for disobeying orders. Tom Hanks' former teacher turned
combat leader is a little too sentimental to be believable as is his
inevitable demise. Many soldiers have commentedamong them retired
Joints Chiefs of Staff General Colin Powellthat Miller and his men
should have blown the bridge and retreated. Of course, had our heroes
shown this much common sense there would have been no climactic battle.Spielberg relies on elaborate visual gimmicks to strengthen his screen
activities. The astonishing combat sequences have the compressed look
of a video surveillance camera. The only thing that saves Spielberg is
the politically incorrect way that the G.I.s shoot the surrendering
Nazi troops. "Saving Private Ryan," for all its obvious flaws, still
qualifies a movie any die-hard World War II fanatic should watch at
least three times.

******
25 March 2006
3
Oh, come on, this flick is nothing but patriotic filth! The first
twenty minutes are an accurate and meticulous portrayal of the Normandy
landing, and the cinematography is just beautiful! But the story, the
plot: forget it! I believe it is very unlikely that any superior in the
military would send a whole platoon on such a BS assignment! And when
they finally find Matt Damon aka Ryan he heroically wants to fight on
and not leave the battle field! Ridiculous. This is popcorn BS for the
masses and it makes me angry how Spielberg exploits an actual event in
history to make some entertaining, overly corny and almost
nationalistic movie out of it! I think that Spielberg displays a lack
of responsibility, because this movie has the following messages: 1.Americans fought bravely against the Nazis and all of them believed
they were fighting for a worthy cause. 2. American men are young and
handsome, and if not, they are smart or wise. 3. All Germans are bad
Nazis and ugly, too. 4. The Americans are superheros. 5. There was no
anti-smut's within the American army. Well, people believe what they want to believe, and the more simplified
the message is, the more they are willing to swallow it. If you want to
take a deeper look into the real character of the American army, read
books such as Mailer's The Naked and the Dead, but refrain from
Spielberg, who is nothing but a lowbrow trying to look smart.

******
31 March 2001
2

Instead of me picking this the best war film ever, I choose it as the
most
overrated film of all time.  An entire squadron would not be sent into
uncertain territory just to bring back one man who really had no purpose
to
be saved.  There were several others out there just like him, I'm sure.
All
of the people who didn't deserve to survive did. This movie was just a
load
of it.  Definetly not Spielberg's best and not Hank's best role.  Anyone
who
picks this as one of the best movies ever needs therapy.

******
27 February 2010
4
I'm a WW2 and war movies fan.I thought I made that clear from the
start.I gave "The Dirty Dozen" and "Platoon" 10 points,and I'm not a
particularly indulgent reviewer.So,even though it was directed by
Spielberg,which I don't like as a director,I had high hopes for
it,simply because I saw the beginning Normandy landing scene in a
preview and I was amazed by its force and grandeur.Also the actors were
terrific,Hanks,Sizemore,Pepper...But goddamn you Spielberg,you really
know how to put poop sauce in our spaghetti,don't you? American
flag...American flag...old tear-eyed guy reminiscing...comforting
family...American flag...a tombstone...American flag...I GET IT,
Spielberg,give me a break....then,nice war scenes in Northern
France...and the poop sauce really starts to hit the
spaghetti...absolutely unrecognizable German Wehrmacht...now I won't
rant about historical inaccuracies and plot absurdities ('though there
are plenty),but most of those guys looked like zombies,not German
soldiers. One thing is certain: Spielberg has no idea about war, not
really.He's talented enough to draw it for us,but shallow enough to be
clueless about what it is about.So, yes, I watched the Normandy landing scene and the end battle scene
3 times...guilty pleasure I guess...and I fast-forwarded all
else...including the very end,which was as melodramatic and pretentious
and naive as almost the whole picture.So,4 points for the effort,the actors,the battles...(the spaghetti).
The rest was,as I mentioned, poop sauce.

******
11 July 2008
5
When I first heard of Saving Private Ryan I was very exited since all
my friends said it was an awesome and realistic war film. The truth was
far from that. The first 5 minutes of the movie were excellent but it
was all downfall after that, since the "storyline" doesn't make any
sense at all why in god's name would the U.S Army send a small group of
Soldiers after a single soldier who is lost possibly behind enemy lines
possibly KIA or Captured. The whole operation would be a total waste of
men and equipment. Also the Rangers did not operate in such small
groups on special missions and the lack of any intelligence of Ryan's
whereabouts would make the operation a waste of time, also the Germans
don't seem to have any sort of intellgence this kissed good bye to
realism alongside the "10 Dead Germans to 1Dead American" rule. When an
American is hit he dies usually slowly and dramaticly saying something
like "Take this letter to my mother " etc etc, when the enemy dies
quick and is rarely or never injured. The portrayal of the enemy is
ridiculous. The enemy doesen't have a face, a personality or any
feelings the enemy is just a sadistic and evil killing machine. Saving
Private Ryan does not differ from old propaganda films made during and
slightly after the war. The reason I gave it a 5 was that it had some
decent action in it but movie is overwhelmed with Spielberg's/Americans
propaganda. I would not call this movie realistic under any
circumstances. In short: Good : -First 5 minutes on the Beach -Some good action scenes Bad: -Propaganda -Pointless Storyline

******
6 May 2008
7
Considered by many to be a fantastic film, I feel I must have missed
something. This film is certainly a good film by any standards. (The
camera work is well done, backdrops are excellent and the opening scene
on the beaches of Normandy is one of the most memorable in cinema
history) But the film does suffer from a couple of failings.Firstly, it is strongly and unapologetically patriotic. The film beings
and ends with the American flag, and the in fact, the Americans appear
to be the only people in the film. The only appearances from other
nationalities are the Germans, and the only character seen is a
back-stabbing monster. In contrast, the American soldiers are all rough
diamonds, and each death scene for an American character is a
tear-jerking moment of sadness.Secondly, the plot. After the initial scene, the plot becomes somewhat
silly, going increasingly downhill until the surviving half dozen
characters end the movie fighting a battalion of soldiers and a squad
of tanks. I really don't understand how anyone can watch the end of
this film with any seriousness.In conclusion, I'd say that the only way this movie deserves the high
regard it seems to have is if after watching the opening half hour, the
movie was switched off. None the less, I would recommend viewing this
film, as its qualities do outshine the flaws.

******
12 March 2001
2

When it came out, Saving Private Ryan was lauded for it's "realistic
depiction of war," and for its "attention and sensitivity to the common man
caught up in the sway of forces far beyond his control." It was supposed to
be a story about the men more than a story about the war.Unfortunately, it was none of these things.The message of this movie seems to be that war is a very deeply affecting
and moving experience, as long as you're an American. Common everyday plain
old American Teachers, as shown by Tom Hanks' character, are sent into the
fray and forced to become fighting men. We are shown, however, that the
humanity of that Teacher is still there, even as he is fighting the "Evil
Bloodthirsy Germans."And this is where my problem lies. How can a movie that uses cookie cutter
Nazis, that treats German soldiers as simply "the enemy," even make the
claim that it is a realistic depiction of war? Somehow, only the Americans
in Saving Private Ryan have a human component, the Germans conveniently
having lost theirs. Compare this with the Japanese soldiers shown in The
Thin Red Line and you'll see that Saving Private Ryan's praise for being an
understanding and sensitive picture of that war is little more than a
joke.Now, I'm not saying i do not understand why the Germans are depicted as so
flat. If I were Jewish and had family members who had been in concentration
camps, I probably wouldn't be able to depict Germans in anything but a
dehumanized capacity either. Having said that, however, the dehumanizing of
the enemy, the labeling of a people and the flattening of their character
and humanity, is what allowed the Germans to kill so many Jews.This movie is anything but a realistic depiction of the Second World
War.


******
20 August 1999
10

Together with "Schindler's List (1993) and "Platoon" (1986), "Saving Private
Ryan" ranks as one of the greatest war movies of all time. Like "Platoon" it
gives the viewer an "in the trenches" experience.Spielberg has hit another home run with this one. The battle scenes are so
realistic and gut wrenching that the viewer is left with the impression of
what the real battles were actually like. Spielberg conveys the uselessness
and futility of war as we follow Tom Hanks and his squad in their search for
Private Ryan following a devastating battle on D-Day.Spielberg's two World War II masterpieces, Schindler's List and Saving
Private Ryan should be required viewing at the high school level in order to
instill in our youth a sense of the sacrifices that were made over a half a
century ago in order to preserve our freedom.


******
3 November 2007
7
When I first saw this film at the cinema I was, like everyone else in
the world, blown away by the opening scenes and then mostly entranced
by what followed. Upon re-watching it these years later, the overall
effect has been lessened by familiarity and, possibly, by being
Speilberged out after watching Munich last week! The battle scenes are
still excellent  visceral, terrifying and all too real  conveying the
calamitous confusion of war in a way seldom matched in the movies. When
the action slows down, so does the film, and this often leaves you
feeling a little disinterested as the characters lack of back-story and
overly obvious attempts at making them look good (Woo! I've saved a
child! Boo! I've been shot!) seem to jar with the realism attained
elsewhere. It's still a cracking film though, and the weaker bits have
actually stood up better than the strong bits in my opinion (although
maybe I'm just more tolerant of schmaltz as I get older).

******
19 May 2006
7
I would have given "Saving Private Ryan" a higher score had it looked
at more issues abundant during WWII (they could have focused on the
various roles that each country specifically played in the war). But
don't get me wrong: watching the movie, you can literally feel the
bullets hitting you. Tom Hanks commands as strong a performance as we
can expect him to, and the rest of the cast also does quite well.I guess that if the movie has any problems, it's in the characters
themselves. Aside from the fact that the movie pretty much makes all
Americans out to be good and all Germans out to be bad, the Americans
are basically clichés. They're all wholesome, hard-working guys out to
make something of themselves. Moreover, there's the wise-guy New Yorker
and the cowpoke Southerner, and Pvt. Ryan comes from Iowa (read:
America's heartland).But otherwise, it's a very good movie, and it goes to show what an
incredible director Steven Spielberg is (although I still wouldn't have
given the movie Best Picture; I would have given that to "Life is
Beautiful"). Also starring Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper,
Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Matt Damon,
Ted Danson, Paul Giamatti and Dennis Farina.

******
18 April 2006
10
i first saw this movie on T.V. one night with my father, but only saw
bits and pieces. I decided to rent it one night and watched the whole
thing in my basement. From the start to the finish i thoroughly enjoyed
the movie.i had seen a couple other world war two movies, but none of
them compared to this. it was interesting how Spielberg made everything
look like it was back then, with the costumes, weapons and scenery!!!
overall, this movie seemed like one of the best out there, and i
personally think it's spielbergs best. If you haven't seen it yet, then
i HIGHLY recommend you go out and rent it some time. It's a great movie
and definitely worth watching!

******
9 August 2005
10
I can not understand those who view it as an 'America win the War'
movie. That is not the point of most of the war movies out there. Yes,
they may use American actors and show American fighting, but look past
that and see the terrifying experiences of war and the fear of the
people back home who suffer the emotional trauma. 'Saving Private Ryan'
I felt gave a visual look at war, it gave the best feeling of what war
would be like that any movies have given, but I don't think that any
movie ever will be able to to give the exact fear that is within the
people when they are in the middle of a battlefield.An excellent movie, dignified, moving and intelligent (not a word used
with many Hollywood movies) acting with a director that has shown
everyone how it SHOULD be done.

******
19 March 2005
10
Up until this day, there had never been a time where I was awestruck or
shocked or amazed after seeing a movie. Never. Then, I saw Saving
Private Ryan. This movie, without a doubt, is the best movie I have
ever seen.Saving Private Ryan is a very accurate presentation of World War 2. In
a lot of the parts, I felt like I was actually there. It was all thanks
to Spielburg's camera-work, which showed some scenes of the movie from
the view of a soldier. I felt like I was running along the beaches of
Normandy. I felt like I was with them in the final battle (won't reveal
specifics). That's how good it was! Now, even though this movie is
really good, it is not for the faint of heart. The first scene of this
movie (D-Day) contains gratuitous amounts of violence and gore. They do
not hold back on the violence. So, unless you think you can handle it,
I would not recommend seeing this movie, because it does have some very
disturbing moments. Another thing they do not hold back on is swearing.
If soldiers shouting out the f-word constantly doesn't appeal to you,
then you might want to skip this movie.Besides all of that, this is a great film! I can't think of anything
wrong with it at all. I would definitely recommend this movie (if you
can handle the gore and language).

******
23 January 2004
8

I really liked this movie !
the realism was extreme, what is, I think a good thing.
I do not like Spielberg (since i was 14-15 yrs old anyway).
I think this guy would be better in doing commercials for TV than making
movie - just my humble opinion.
But if we forget some flaws the movie is pretty good !
T. Hanks was also very good in it ! he got my respect.now, some stuff was bothering :- near the beginning, why spielberg was making the little french girl say
"
i don't like those american soldiers ! -sob- "
Are those US dudes will stop one day to think that the french are
genetically antiamerican ? that's ridiculous !
I hate set ideas !- The german soldiers look dumb and wanting very eagerly take some US slug
in the map !
Come on, guys ! The germans are just there to be shooted, they act
stupidly
what cost them their life, they have no survivng instinct ... i don't buy
it
!- The landing scene seemed ended a little too fast and easily to match the
reality i think (IMHO)Of course, there may be a little too much US patriotism for the average
european viewer, we are not used to it anymore in our countries
(self-glorification, i mean) but after all it's an american movie and they
did change the fate of Europe and the world, so ...
let them do it.anyway good movie, i give it a 8/10.= you should at least see it once ! > 

******
17 November 2001
10

Winning 5 Academy Awards Saving Private Ryan is without doubt one of the
greatest war movies of all time. Director Steven Spielberg does an
excellent
job with this film. The choreography,  film editing, sound, and directing
are superb. Specially the D-Day scene, which veterans called a precise
re-creation of the real landing on Normandy. Along is the powerful cast of
Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy
Davies, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg and Vin Diesel which makes the movie
even better. The greatest war film of all time and one of the best films
over all.

******
8 November 1999
1

The action scenes in this film are superb - gritty, realistic and plain
nasty.
However, it remains a source of irritation that such good film making is
washed down with an unhealthy dose of flag-waving patriotism.
What is the message of this film? That occasionally you find SOMETHING worth
fighting and dying for or that it's glorious to die for your country (read
Owen for further comments on this)Something else it has led to is a number of American reviewers giving the
"We died to save your a$$es" speach. 
This itself is both stupid and untrue - the people who wrote those messages
did nothing. America got involved only when it was directly threatened by
the Nazis, and not before.I am glad, however, that such views are in a minority from the American
postings - It's a pity that the many are tarred by the
few.Millions of normal Europeans died in this war - from bombings, shootings,
torture, starvation, disease and the Holocaust.
This film made only a token attempt to reference this - nothing more.The thin red line was a much better, less commercial film with that very
neccessary ingredient - a message - this one remains a catalogue of missed
opportunities and a formulaic start and end.

******
21 March 2006
10
This movie is so powerful. I couldn't watch it without crying, jumping,
gasping, screaming, laughing, and cringing. It brought you through a
whole array of emotion.I couldn't help but give my entire being over to each character as a
stunning performance was drawn by each actor. Simply amazing. I can't
describe it any other way.Easily the best war film I've seen. None was more realistic... Amazing
amazing amazing.Recommended to anyone who enjoys historical fiction.LOVED IT!

******
26 December 2009
4
The movie had incredible special effects and entertaining scenes,
however the movie is full of half-truths, lies and propaganda.Truths: There was a US, British and Canadian led invasion of Normandy
France in June, 1944.Lies: There was no Private called Ryan who lost his two brothers,
however there was a Airbourne soldier lost for 18 days behind German
lines, however he rescued himself after walking into US lines, no one
set out to rescue him and there was no giant battle in the fictional
town of Ramelle.Propaganda: In this movie (besides the opening scene in which hundreds
of US soldiers were slaughtered on Omaha Beach) the average US soldiers
kills 50 German soldiers, gets shot (falls over dramatically in slow
motion with stupid opera music playing), then pulls out his pistol and
kills another 50 Germans and then dies dramatically saying something
stupid like "Tell my wife I love her". In this movie a platoon of 20 US
soldiers, takes out 100 German soldiers, 2 Marder IIIs and 2 Tiger
tanks with improvised weapons like wet-sock bombs and Molotov
cocktails. Real history accounts SHOW that this never happened! If your
into entertaining and action packed War movies THEN THIS IS TOTALLY
YOUR THING! A great movie! However 98% inaccurate when it comes to
history.

******
18 February 2007
9
The genius of Steven Spielberg is that he always knows exactly where he
wants to take his audience, and then takes them there. If he wants to
tug at our heartstrings, he'll make us fall in love with a brown and
wrinkly space visitor we might otherwise find grotesque. If he wants to
make us inch the blanket up over our eyes, he'll crank up the grim
orchestral music and put us face-to-face with a toothy Great White. And
if he wants us to truly understand an entirely different kind of
horror, he'll show us small children leaping into a pool of outhouse
waste to escape their murderous Holocaust captors.Spielberg continues what he does best with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, a film
so graphic in its Second World War battlefield depictions that many
veterans have called it the closest thing to being there. The explicit
scenes of gushing arteries, severed limbs and faceless corpses come
fast and furious, numbing us into the reality of the setting. In fact,
if we didn't know Spielberg as a serious artist with noble objectives,
we might be tempted to call him a shock artist obsessed with blood and
guts and gore.But we do know about Spielberg. We know he would not take us down such
a rocky road without a reason. In SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, the obvious
rationale is to help us understand not where he's coming from, but
where the men we will ultimately spend nearly three hours with are
coming from. It's in this hell on earth that Cpt. John Miller (Tom
Hanks) and his small group of soldiers (fine actors like Edward Burns,
Tim Sizemore and Barry Pepper among them) must not only survive with
sanity intact, but carry out orders. And not all of those orders make
sense at the time, if ever. Case in point, Hanks and his men are sent
to locate one Pte. James Ryan (Matt Damon). Pte. Ryan is no POW, but a
soldier still serving somewhere within the vast U.S. Forces -- if he's
still alive, that is. During the Second World War, with a communication
system that is a technological dinosaur by today's standards, it's a
mission ordered said than accomplished.The mission is a tough sell not just logistically, but emotionally.
Pte. Ryan is sought so he can be sent home to his mom, who has just
lost her three other sons virtually at once. As he himself admits, Pte.
Ryan has displayed no more courage than his fellow soldiers. Why should
he get to leave? Indeed that question crops up in the minds of Hanks'
soldiers. Why is one man's life worth risking those of a group of men?
they ask. It's an interesting angle for a film about heroes. We often
think of soldiers doing the job with no questions asked, happy to put
their lives on the line for their fellow GI. We forget they are
rational humans.And therein lies one of the biggest strengths of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.
It's a very human story told in extreme circumstances. It covers all
the traditional bases -- inner turmoil, terror, carnage -- but has a
level of sophistication absent from most other war films, particularly
those inspired by The Last Great War. Hanks isn't Patton, but a
schoolteacher who secretly cries at the enormity of it all. The enemy
fighters don't have horns, but uniforms and feelings just like the
Americans. The soldiers are heroes, but reluctant ones.Spielberg is a master at telling the story of war and men. SAVING
PRIVATE RYAN is not his best, but it certainly comes close.

******
1 July 2005
10
D-Day. Operation Overlord. What we say here cannot do justice to what
they did on that day. Tom Hanks and his patrol must recover Private
James Ryan before his mother gets her fourth flag delivered by an Army
chaplain. It all makes perfect, illogical sense to kill many to save
one. After surviving the Normandy landing, Hanks is volunteered to put his
men in the line of fire again and again. Just to save one man. Or is it?A bridge is saved, a town is secured, a bigger battle is won..All
because Hanks saved one shoe for one horse...Beautifully realistic to make the atrocities of war invade, assault,
and overpower all five senses. You feel the bullets whizzing past your
head. You see the man looking for his arm after it was blown off is
shoulder. You smell the burning hatred for the Nazis as one US soldier
yells to his comrades "Don't shoot them..let them burn." It is too much to watch..but you have to see it.

******
2 February 2005
5
There was a time when Spielberg felt the film-making fraternity had
overlooked him. Those days may be over, but the reasons why it
happened, sadly, are not. The lesson seems to be, make a film about the
holocaust and be magically transformed into a critical heavyweight.The sad fact is that Schindler's List is (in my opinion) a very good
film, but not a great one  it is too heavy handed. I am in a minority.
Likewise, bolt on 20 minutes of startling cinematography (which was not
part of the original Spielberg grand plan) and transform a fairly
pedestrian, unoriginal war-is-naughty-but-devilishly-exciting flick
into a major cinematic event.Can someone who loves this film as Art (I choose capitals for its
ironic effect) explain how it was that the film managed to spawn a
whole series of computer games? Were Spielberg's motives so noble, so
pure and so righteous that he had to further propagate his
"war-is-naughty" message to the fans of first person shoot-em-ups? Now
you may argue that it is hardly Spielberg's job to worry about such
things. This may be true  but you have to wonder why it was that
Saving Private Ryan is so eminently suited to such a transfer. It is
difficult, for example, to anticipate a Thin Red Line or Apocalypse now
video game. It would also difficult to paste scenes from Thin Red Line
onto, say, Star Wars (the Millennium Falcon coming out of the sun, for
example) and not be able to spot the difference.At best Saving Private Ryan is a lukewarm, melodramatic, overly
sentimental paean to good ole America, good ole family and the
importance of killing nasty Germans before they kill you. The beach
landing is extraordinary  I'm not denying it. But pardon me if I'm
holding out for something more subtle. 5½ /10

******
25 July 2006
9
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of those movies you can't believe didn't
win the picture Oscar. That didn't stop it though from reaching such a
huge audience and touch the lives of millions. The movie has one of the
best introductions ever put on screen. The attack on D-Day is immensely
powerful and painfully well directed. Steven Spielberg knows exactly
how to make this movie strong and action-driven while focusing on the
psychology on the characters and the cruelty of war.The movie is about 8 men searching for a soldier by the name of James
Ryan (Matt Damon), who's the last of four brothers still left alive.
After the attack of D-Day most of the soldiers still suffer the war
syndrome and seem very doubtful of finding one person in a whole
war-zone. Back at home, Ryan's mother gets a letter about three out of
four of her sons dying in war, and begs the soldiers to find her last
one.It's a beautiful film that depicts war as it should be. Vicious,
disgusting, violent, heartbreaking, unfair, and tragic. Spielberg's use
of the hand-held camera is almost breathtaking, as he gets right into
the action and swings left and right to create a sense of realism and
panic. His incredible editing and beautiful cinematography is
unforgettable and is strongly influential.Tom Hanks gives an incredible performance as Captain John Miller, a
dedicated and loyal soldier who's on the verge of losing his mind. The
pressure from being a captain and enduring the worst attack in history
sends him in mental torture, trying to covering his pain and suffering
from the rest of the soldiers.The story doesn't focus on the heroic aspect, but rather the truth
about war. Spielberg knows that even though you get to know the
characters, they have a chance of dying. There is a unique subtlety in
that these characters seem to have the drive to save private Ryan so
they could go home.Definitely one of the best directed films in a long time, "Saving
Private Ryan" is a bright gem in recent film-making. Robbed of the
Picture Oscar, the movie is a true representation of D-Day and post
D-Day. It's a movie that inspires above all else.

******
17 September 2001
4

As a younger man (22) I've grown up in a society was molded to fit
baby-boomer self-centeredness.  So perhaps I shouldn't find this film
surprising.  But I can't stomach the idea of another generation of people
following their twisted view, so here goes...No matter how much you want to stoke your own ego, there is no way that you
can realistically equate the men who fought and died in WW2 to yourselves. 
Give up.  This film is a terrible blow to our veterans.Spielberg tries to make the soldiers seem like they're the same as you and
me, but they weren't.  All of the introspective musings in this film would
make you think that these guys returned home after the war and started
discussing Sartres in their local coffeehouse.  These are 40's people who
are portrayed thinking like 90's people.  At least in "Thin Red Line", the
film made no effort to portray itself as a true-to-life salute to those
soldiers.  "Thin Red Line" was a juxtaposition of a WW2 backdrop with
Vietnam-era sentiments, and it made to portent of being anything
else.The WW2 generation didn't feel this ridiculous desire to explore their
feelings and share them to the point of fault.  They didn't have to connect
to their fellows on some mystical, spiritual level.  The entire war did not
revolve around them as individuals, nor did they feel the need to ponder
some existential connection to the war around them.This film is simply another attempt by the baby-boomer generation to "prove"
that they are as good as any other generation before them.  This is their
self-centered mythos.  If a film actually showed the superior qualities of
these American soldiers, it would destroy that myth.  In truth, the American
people felt a duty to their country back then.  And they did not feel the
need to wax philosophic at every turn in some attempt to justify the world's
existence in the face of how "inconvenient" it may have been to their own
selves.  This contemporary psycho-babble had no place in their lives, and
Spielberg had no right to put it there.As for the characters who don't partake of this attitude, they are so paper
thin that they add nothing to the film except to exacerbate the problem by
making the mystics and coffeehouse types seem the more
realistic.If you have any respect for America, pass this film by.

******
22 October 2006
6
Director Steven Spielberg's usual homey touch (which infiltrated even
"Schlinder's List" in its final act) is thankfully in slight evidence
here, as WWII soldiers attempt to locate one particular man whose
siblings have all been killed in combat. The set-up for the plot is a
bit formulaic (and layered with Spielberg's need for romanticism), but
the very fine performances and exhaustingly exact scenes of violence
remain haunting and memorable. Vivid cinematography and frenetic
editing won Oscars, as did Spielberg (who deserved it). I was rather
surprised by how powerful this movie is, given the feel-good
reputations by many of the principals involved. I'm not a lover of this
particular movie genre, but the film pulls no punches in detailing many
unrelenting scenes of battle. *** from ****

******
7 May 2000
1

I'm afraid that I hated every moment of this film. Spielburg overused
emotional hokum to try to give his film wieght when we actually didn't care
whether Private Ryan lived or died. The first twenty minutes, I accept are
excellent, but they are just a rip off of someone else's hard work - and
frankly I would rather see the original footage from the Second World War
rather than the director's interpretation of it. Although it tried to be
realistic and historical, it was neither. The history is faulty and the
emotions of the rangers are not realistic. (I imagine that if it happened
for real they would complain about having to rescue this mummie's boy and
hide out somewhere safe until it was safe to go back to base.) I'd rather
watch the notoriously bad, Objective Burma anyday. At least it doesn't
pretend to be true. 

******
4 April 2000
1

"Best war movie of all time", "one of my favorites" and so
on...please!The beginning is awesome with amazing action scenes but then what..? It's
the usual "USA saves the world" with who-would-have-guessed-it heroes and
nauseating flag waving and other clichés. I just can't believe that this
movie is considered to be the 14th best (or 12th or whatever it is right
now...) of all time!?!What's most surprising about Saving Private Ryan is that all the Americans
who watched it could get out from the theaters with their big heads. They
can't honestly say that this is how they thought WWII was, can they?? All
Americans and not a Brit, Frenchman or anyone of another nationality in
sight.This movie was made for an American crowd and to make money at the box
office. Not to make a believable story about D-day.It's supposed to be really emotional when an American gets killed or
injured
but the Germans are shot down indiscriminately. This is sickening to me!
Is
an American life worth more than a German? Spielberg seems to think it
is...

******
13 February 2001
1

Before I start let me say that this movie was extremely well crafted,
pushing the envelope in the technical aspect of filmmaking.This movie was really good if looked at in parts. The opening D-DAY
sequence
was beautiful. The final battle was also great. There were moments that
really grabbed you (the Giovanni Ribisi monologue especially) but the film
as a whole makes no sense.It said nothing. It simply contradicted itself over and over agian. The
great D-DAY sequence tells us about the insanity of war, and how awful and
seemingly pointless it all is. But after two hours of walking around to
further build on the whole insanity of war thing, the movie goes full
circle
right into hollywood. The ending attempts to justify all the madness, by
saying that it's all worth it because you are fighting for matt damon and
of course your country (as we fade out on the american flag). Mr.
Speilberg
and company, What exactly are you trying to tell us?NOTE: This movie pales in comparison to Terrance Malick's THE THIN RED
LINE.Although I must say, if it came down to this movie and Shakespeare in love
(perhaps the worst movie to ever win an oscar... oh wait thats titanic), I
would have to go with this one.

******
19 January 2001
1

I can't be the only person who thinks this is Starship Troopers with the
Evil Nazi Scourge standing in for the Bugs.For one, the combat scenes are no more war-is-hell realistic and bloody than
Starship Troopers.  It's nice to see protagonists who aren't superhuman, but
this is only a (moderately) original take for big budget blockbusters, it's
hardly ground breaking cinema.Just as in Starship Troopers, the characters barely qualify as one
dimensional, and I can't be the only one who found them so irritatingly
stereotypical that SPR almost qualifies as a parody.A particular point of interest is that Mr Spielberg's Evil Nazi Scourge are
portrayed only slightly more sympathetically than the Bugs in Starship
Troopers.  If you get your knowledge of history from Hollywood (which a lot
of people do), then you'd be forgiven for thinking that every single German
was a soulless Nazi who deserved to die, and that WWII was just USA vs Japan
and Germany.  I do have a fair amount of sympathy for Spielberg's stance,
but it's interesting to compare his sweeping generalisations with 1930's
Nazi anti-Jewish, anti-Romany propaganda.  It's sad but not really
surprising that Spielberg's audience accepts his skewed message just as
unquestioningly as the German moviegoers did in the 1930's.The idea for SPR is actually sound, but the implementation is just so
overdone that I really can't bring myself to care about any of it, other
than to feel contempt for the brutal liberties it takes with history.  If
I'm going to watch good-vs-bad fantasy, I'd prefer to stick with Starship
Troopers which at least doesn't try to pass itself off as something
significant and profound.

******
9 March 1999
1

Lame, revisionist crap. What the hell kind of squad does no recon, talks out
loud, and stays bunched together? Also, many of the weapons (esp. the German
M 60)are improperly, and fantastically used. How can you use a sniper scope
out of the box, with no sighting in? Idiotic. Spielbergs enthusiastic
portrayal of the murder of German prisoners is disturbing in the extreme.


******
9 August 1999
1

Here we have another in the series of Spielberg formula drek.  Mr. S. has
stumbled on a great gimmick...  he makes films that may not be disliked
because of some taboo or other.  To dislike Schindler's List is to not be
sympathetic with the Jews who were killed by Nazis.  To dislike Forrest Gump
is to not be properly respectful of retarded people.  Give me a break.  Now
we're all supposed to like Saving Private Ryan because if we don't it means
we don't understand that war is bad or appreciate the sacrifice made by all
the people who died during WW II?  Spare me.Without all the emotional baggage, SPR is an awful movie.  The plot is
trite.  The writing labored and formulaic and it in no way justifies the
emotional bludgeoning delivered by the opening sequence.I will admit that the opening sequences is probably the most powerful half
hour of film ever to be projected on a movie screen.  Spielberg know all the
emotional buttons we have and how to push them.  He was a brilliantly
manipulative filmmaker 25 years ago and he's only gotten better.  That being
said, did Mr. Spielberg forget to actually add a story?  Lots of movies deal
with the ugly side of humanity.  The Shawshank Redemption is a perfect
example of how to show these things in the context of a riveting story.  I
guess the most disappointing aspect of this is that we all know that
Spielberg can do better.  He has done better.  He has made some of the
greatest American films of all time.  He, of all people, should remember
that and remember that every time he makes one of these ponderous
abominations he is desecrating the memory of films like Duel and Jaws... and
even The Lost World.  It was a far better movie than this.On a scale of 1 to 10.  I gave it a 1 only because there was no zero which
was what it really deserved.

******
3 February 2002
1

OOOOH! Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks!  It has to be good!
And that is why so many fools actually think this movie is worth something;
they were told it was before they ever saw it.  Tom Hanks playing the same
character he has in every movie since "Philidelphia" sans "Forrest Gump."
Spielberg trying to make us think this movie is as realistic as they get.
Lots of bullets, blood, and heads blowing apart does not mean it qualifies
as real.  It can't be real.  We've seen all of these characters in a
hundred
other movies.  Tough, tobacco chewing sergeant.  Cynical, mouthy private.
Even the sniper getting shot through the scope.  Spielberg is ripping of a
schlock tom berringer joint.  But look at all the people dying and the
young
man calling for his mother, this is a good movie.  Yeah right.  Do yourself
a favor and rent "Hell is for Heroes."  A good movie, although it might be
tough for some of you because it is in B&W. 

******
9 March 2004
1

 Spielberg set out to make a realistic depiction of the Omaha Beach landings
to kick off  his film, which is about a fictional mission
of a squad to rescue one Pvt Ryan, of the airborne, dropped inland behind
the beaches. One glaring idiocy of the film is why they would dispatch
soldiers from the Omaha sector to rescue someone droppedbehind the Utah sector, especially when 4th Infantry Div soldiers arealready in contact with a large portion of the airborne troops. The answer
is, of course, because that gives Spielberg his opportunity
to
display the Omaha landings rather than the Utah beach landings next door,
which were too easy and lacked any bloody combat. If the only thing anyone
knows about the V Corps landings at Omaha came from this
film, then they would have been better off skipping the film, or at least
the opening scenes of battle. Read a book and learn what happened at Omaha.
You'll find that it wasn't anywhere near as bloody as Spielberg's film leads
one to believe. Omaha Beach was considered bloody only because of comparison
with landings at the other 4 beaches,
which were virtually walkovers. The rest of the movie is not much to see,
with many errors in the combat sequences, especially with respect to tactics
that would have been used. Spielberg's film is badly flawed as history, and
the story is downright unbelievable - why not radio the 101st  and order
Ryan off the line? Why send a few guys to walk thru the entire German 7th
Army and search in a 400 square mile area for some guy named Ryan? The US
Army wasn't always the most efficient, but they would never have sent off a
squad on such a cockamamie mision.

******
21 October 2002
1

I think this film is terrible.  The war scenes are gimmicky, especially
the
flanging, shakey camera work.  Some scenes are outrageously unrealistic,
such as when those American soldiers shot the Germans using the mirror.
Also, studies have been done showing that only about 1/3 of American
troops
landing during D-Day fired their rifles.  Not all of these soldiers were
hardcore killers like the movie makes them out to be.  It's laughable that
people call this film "realistic."The audience is given very little credit.  The dialogue sounds like it is
cut out of newspaper articles which editorialize the mission.  It's as
though Spielberg thought his audience was so stupid that the moral dilemma
of the film had to be spelled out for them in detail.It also overused action sequences.  Those in creative control of the film
tried to make up for the lack of depth with gritty, excessive scenes of
violence.  All in all, this is one of the worst films that I have ever
seen.

******
17 August 2005
1
The movie is nothing but a dummy package. Under the guise of a feigned
authenticity - the construction of unreflecting patriotism,
tear-jerking worship of heroes, a naive black-and-white portrayal and a
pathetic "good against evil" mentality - it does not leave a doubt that
only a dead German is a good German. Tom Hanks and the folks gathering
around him may do a good job, but still cannot avoid the old cliché:
Captain Miller's colorful troop is not much more than the regular bunch
of war movie stereotypes who mutate to heroes. Where the Vietnam movies
of a Oliver Stone (Platoon) or of a Stanley Kubrick (Full Metal Jacket)
mercilessly condemn, do Spielberg's shocking pictures justify all
committed atrocities in retrospect. Therefore this movie is rather a
tribute to the US World War Veterans, than an anti-war movie. An
absolution, which illustrates the horrors of war but not its
senselessness. All in all, this is a movie we did not need and we could
have done very well without it.

******
4 June 1999
1

It may not be the MOST overrated, but it's certainly up there along with
Scream and Fargo and There's Something About Mary.Oh what a battle scene - the fantastic motion sickness inducing
cinematography, the masterfully overhyper editing, the gore, oh the
wonderful gore.  And so forth.The Omaha beach landing was quite intense.  It was brutal and affecting.
But people just can't seem to get it into their heads that one extended
battle scene does not a great film make.After *that*, we get yet another version of a tired, clichéd mission
movie,
filled with your usual stereotypes: reminiscing about the good ol' days
before this all ever happened, doing whatever it takes just to get home,
blah, blah, blah.
Also painfully stereotypical are the characters: we have the saddened
captain who misses his normal job and life, we've got the hardnut
sergeant,
the Italian guy, the Jewish guy, the New Yorker, and so forth.  And all
the
Germans are skinheaded bastards - and by the way, where the hell were the
other allied troops?  Oh, I forgot, it was the Americans that won the war
(flag shots at the beginning and end are just painfully
sad).The middle of the MOVIE is incredibly boring.  Pointless, predictable
set-pieces are tiresome.  The scenes in which the rattled soldiers tell
little stories of life at home (the medic talking about his mother, Ryan
talking about his brothers, etc.) are awful attempts at evoking sympathy
and
sentimentality.Then there's the final battle.  Outnumbered, the men revert to primitive
tactics (a bit like Predator).  Quite unbelievably, this lengthy fight is
incredibly boring, and the one at the end of Young Guns is far
better.5 Oscars?  Obviously due to the beach landing bit, they are mostly
undeserved.  Best Director - should have been Peter Weir, or Terence
Malick.
Best Cinematography - John Toll for The Thin Red Line, without any doubt
in
the world.  Editing - Out Of Sight deserved this even more than The Thin
Red
Line.  I suppose the two sound awards are justified.For people to call this the Greatest War Film Of All Time is just wrong.
The best is Apocalypse Now.  This is not the best World War Two film
either
- Das Boot is.  This can't even be described as the best D-Day/Normandy
beach landings movie either - The Longest Day kicks its a**.   To go even
further - this is not even Spielberg's best war film.  Schindler's List is
superior.To summarise - great beginning, but the rest sucked.  If you haven't seen
it, don't bother.  Or, if you insist, watch the beginning, then
leave/press
stop.  You'll be doing yourself a big favour.

******
12 November 1999
1

I finally made time to see this film, expecting a visceral, emotional
experience.  Instead I was (in order) bored, angry, sleepy, and bewildered. 
Is this the groundbreaking film that everyone was gushing over last year? 
From all the talk I expected a head-on assault at the beginning of the
movie.  What I did see was a heavy-handed and frankly uninteresting battle
scene.  From there the movie only got worse.  I didn't care a bit for any of
the characters, least of all the Tom Hanks lead and the obnoxious Matt
Damon.  While the film looked spectacular, that's all it was: surface. 
There was no depth whatsoever to any of the characters or situations.  I
feel like maybe there is something wrong with me that I don't see what all
the orgasmic gushing over this film is about.  Plain old
boring.

******
31 January 2001
1
So many people loved this film, that I actually rented the DVD to
re-watch it. I had originally seen it in a movie theater, during its
initial release, and I hated it. The second time was certainly not a
charm. Possessing the knowledge of what was to come, made for an even
more boring movie experience. This film's much talked about opening,
lends nothing to the paltry narrative that is the rest of the film. The
movie meanders about, aimlessly, for what seems an eternity, and almost
nothing happens. When something does happen, it isn't anything that you
haven't seen, done by the same old characters that you've seen before,
in countless other (and better) WWII films. Even the dialog is old
Hollywood corny. Then, after being about virtually nothing for hours,
it ends with a hokey gimmick of the realization of who the old Vet is.
Meant to tug at our heartstrings (nothing wrong with that); but only
elicited a groan and a roll of the eyes from me. Tedious, with
virtually no character development. Not Recommended.

******
7 November 1999
1

I was looking forward to seeing Saving Private Ryan.  I had heard many
reviews that called it one of the greatest war movies ever made.  I was not
expecting to see something as poorly put together as this movie was.  From
the begining I found myself wanting to scream at the screen.  I must admit
the acting was good, but they had little to work with.Just about every other aspect of the film fails.  It manages to portray
D-Day as the smallest battle I've ever seen.  Basically, the goal was two
machine gun posts.  Sorry, but that battle was not realistic at all and was
intentionally bloodwashed worst than the Friday the 13th movies.  The film
is loaded with mistakes including the rediculous helmet rank insignia.
They
knew better because they told someone not to salute Hanks because it might
give away his rank.  Then they put bars on his helmet!  Structurally, the
movie was a disaster.  It was supposed to be about the irony of many men
dying for one man.  In the end, though it turns into the defense of a
bridge
and the main plot is almost totally forgotten.  The soldiers are stupid.
They have to defend or destroy a bridge, but don't leave the detonator
wired
up and someone (who should have been Ryan) to blow it as a last resort?
Every war cliche in the book gets dropped into this film.  "Save my child",
the wounded soldier just out of reach, the sharpshooter who never misses,
"I'm not leaving my buddies", etc.  They are all there.  Did they have to
end the the waiving of the flag?The movie does not feel like WWII, but rather feels like Vietnam.  Lots of
mud and rain, "what are we doing here", a bungling military command.  One
of
the most successful engagements in military history is portrayed as a
confused, poorly planned mess.The movie is absolutely loaded with red herrings.  Hank's hand problem has
no bearing on the plot and is not present when it might cause a problem.
They fight a machine-gun nest for no real reason other than it provided a
fight scene.  Was I the only one to notice that all of the towns were
destroyed before we even got to them?  Didn't France surrender?  The
climactic battle is sure to be lost, but is won when air support arrives.
Of course, they did not call for the air support.  Can you say "Deus ex
machina"?  Did we have precision guided tank bombs in WWII?  Did our
protagonists really have anything to do with the outcome?I was shocked that this movie was not ripped apart in reviews.  It has
everything possible wrong with it.  Is it now unpatriotic to indicate divel
when you see it wrapped with an American flag?  

******
13 December 2015
10
Saving Private Ryan is a heart pounding drama that shows World War 2
very realistically. The battle scenes, while horrific, are done to
perfection. It shows us the horrors of war from the POV of our main
character Captain John H Miller (Tom Hanks) and the platoon he
commands. Captain Miller's platoon has landed on Normandy beach, and
has now been assigned to a rescue mission. To locate and save Private
James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon) a US paratrooper whose brothers have
been killed in action. As the group goes through France to find one
man, they ask themselves why one man should be as important as the
eight looking for him. As I've already stated the battle scenes are
amazing. The acting also is top notch. It's really an incredible movie.
The last 27 minutes is just gripping. It's impossible to ignore.

******
10 November 2015
10
It'd be implausible to think that anyone who wasn't involved in World
War 2 could ever understand the true horrors or hardship the men and
women of the time went through in that terrible time. Over the years
we've had countless documentaries, novels, movies, games and TV series
that have looked to offer an insight into what it felt like to be a
part of the World War that claimed millions upon millions of lives, and
arguably the most visceral and heart pounding take of them all is
Steven Spielberg's incredible Saving Private Ryan.A film unlike anything Spielberg had made before or has made since,
Ryan, with it's as close to real opening stanza on the beaches of
Normandy and journey culminating in a speaker shattering finale in the
crumbled ruins of the city of Ramelle, is a downright masterstroke of
movie making craft that to this day near 20 years on from its initial
release has lost none of its impressive and heartfelt power.Spielberg accomplished his impressive feat by surrounding himself with
the cream of the crop of film-making wizards. Employing the services of
now famed cinematographer Janusz Kaminski who single-handedly
reinvented the way in which war films and action in particular was
shot, the keen eye of long standing editor Michael Kahn, the screen
writing abilities of The Patriot scribe Robert Rodat and of course the
musical accompaniment of a John Williams score, Ryan had at its
disposal the A-team of Hollywood and it shows.All around Saving Private Ryan is quality, pure unbridled grace and
confidence that fills the film's every frame and it extends to its
eclectic cast of established and at-the-time up and comers which was
led by the almost never better Tom Hanks. After Hanks' leading man
Captain Miller we have Ed Burns's cocky Reiban, Barry Pepper's
religiously inclined sharpshooter Jackson, the late Tom Sizemore's
gruff Horvath, Adam Goldberg's wisecracking Mellish and Jeremy Davis's
jittery language expert Upham. It's a great team and when you throw in
Giovanni Ribisi, Vin Diesel and of course cinemas most rescued, Matt
Damon with added bit parts by a one armed Walter White in the form of
Bryan Cranston, a slim lined Paul Giamatti, a non-CSI Ted Danson and
even a baby faced Nathan Fillion, Ryan acts as a who's who of
recognizable actors that each for a small period or large period made
sure the film was one of the most well-acted of the modern era.Filled with heart, stunningly filmed sequences of confronting warfare
and a cast of memorable personnel, Saving Private Ryan is one of a
handful of quintessential war films that have managed to somehow in
various states capture what it may have been like to be among the
countless wars that have raged over our planet in years gone by.A deserving Oscar winner that in many ways can be seen as a faultless
exercise in big budget film-making and the perfect example of a men on
a mission movie done well, Saving Private Ryan is one of, if not the
greatest film in Steven Spielberg's outstanding and loaded filmography.5 greased up socks out of 5

******
10 October 2015
10
Saving Private Ryan is a masterpiece and one of Spielberg's finest
Movies, the Battle scenes, performances and the film keeping true to
World War 2 makes this a brilliant but tough watch. Here's why.The story is good but could've been better, it follows a bunch of
soldiers who lands on Normandy, France and successfully defeating the
Germans on their first encounter, they must track Down a Survivor of
the Normandy incident that happened earlier before they arrived by the
chief of the army, so Captain Miller and his soldiers must get Private
James Ryan, the Survivor back home and end the war in Normandy and
World War 2 itself.The film's ending is something i have to mention, it's so emotional and
one of the most best bad endings of all time, where Captain Miller does
Deus Ex Machina on an upcoming tank and somehow saves his teammates but
he himself dies, and in present time, James Francis Ryan goes to his
funeral and also tells his wife to say he is a good man, for all his
work during World War 2, it's sad but impressive overall.The Battle scenes are impressive, With some of the most realistic
depictions of war ever put into film, each Battle scene is at least 10
minutes which adds to the overall excitement of the film's slow pacing.
The film's performances are stunning especially Tom Hanks, all has
their own emotion which makes each character interesting and
refreshing.The film's direction is as great as previous Spielberg films, here it's
all done in a serious matter, where World War 2 is pretty accurate in
this Movie than it is in real life. The orchestral is impressive, John
Williams is always the king of orchestral Music. The Deaths are pretty
emotional, and even myself feel sorry for all of the teammates dying
despite the characters being fictional and i still had a hard time
seeing these likable characters die.Saving Private Ryan is a benchmark for film Entertainment and it is one
of my favourites to this day. Direction, characters, performances,
Music, realism, World War 2 accuracy, ending and the overall emotion to
the Death scenes makes this a must-watch for anyone willing to watch a
great War flick. The only weakness of this Movie is the plot, it's
simple and has to have more focus on some of it's locations like Ohama
Beach and that it is kinda flat in the middle part of the Movie, other
than this minor nitpick, check this Movie out.10/10

******
9 October 2015
10
Film ReviewDo you want to watch an excellent dramatic action movie? Then you need
to watch Saving Private Ryan, directed by Steven Spielberg. This film
is magnificent as it provides such realism and such a serious tone
throughout the entire film. The movie starts with a reenactment of
D-Day, the horrific WWII invasion of Omaha Beach, Normandy in which our
country came out victorious in, and shows how truly brutal it really
was. As the soldiers progress further onto the beach that they soon
take over, a group who is led by Captain Miller (Tom Hanks), assembles
as they receive another mission. This new mission is to search and
rescue Private James Ryan who is apart of a paratrooper platoon that
landed in an enemy zone just out of contact. As they are proceeding on
this search and rescue mission, they come across numerous issues and
initiate a few fire fights along the way. As always, a few of the
fellow soldiers die as they come closer to reaching their target and
things begin to get more and more out of hand. As they come upon their
target, they once again face incredible forces and have to defend
themselves until backup arrives. As it comes to an end, they become
victorious and control the area they fought for but are faced with a
very dramatic outcome. This film really gives you the idea of how
intense war really is and just how accurate the outcomes would be like.What's so wonderful about the accuracy of this movie is that it is
based on the true events of the Normandy invasion of WWII and shows how
gruesome it really was. The landscaping of the beach along with the
architectural structures it has prepared was almost ideal to the actual
beaches layout. When they go through the movie, scenes where they come
across enemy platoons, the way they go about surrendering or killing is
very accurate. Whereas some films break out into some huge fake fire
fight and start all over. The movie is precise on keeping you intrigued
and keeping the tone serious so you will keep watching.Keeping the tone serious keeps the movie going. All the characters in
the movie are extremely serious and the language they use show it. It
is a war movie so you expect the language and actions to be aggressive
and serious and that's exactly what you get. The actions are flawless
and the way they go about things, such as the death of fellow soldiers
is great. They don't break out and make it a big deal, they put dirt in
a can with the name of the dead soldier on it and go about the mission.
They went about death very well and stuck together as a unit and kept
it very realistic.The realism is what keeps this movie alive. The action is so intense,
the gun battles are incredible, and the sound effects are just
phenomenal and bass dropping. The sounds of the different weaponry are
so realistic tying into the accuracy and acting of the film. The gore
and blood of some battles may be disturbing to certain viewers because
it's so brutal and gruesome.Overall, I would recommend the movie Private Ryan, for all movie
lovers. The accuracy of the actual events that transpired on Omaha
Beach were historical. The seriousness of the actors portraying the
soldiers in my opinion, is done with respect and honor. Honor to all
the soldiers who lost their lives that day defending our country. As
you are watching the battle scenes the realism in the acting, sound
effects, and special effects, makes you feel like you could be right
there on the battlefield with the soldiers. Again, if you're in the
mood for a good war movie based on actual events, this is the movie for
you.

******
6 May 2015
7
Throughout film history, there's been a constant fascination with war.
As new documentaries on the two great World Wars appear every year, so
do films on similar events. From All Quiet on the Western Front (1930)
to the recently released Fury (2014), Hollywood's interest in depicting
war shows no signs of slowing down. Spielberg's 1998 epic Saving
Private Ryan fits in a long line of war epics attempting to depict the
horrors of war in a realistic manner. SPR does this exceptionally
wellfor the duration of roughly 20 minutes.The film starts with an old man visiting the Normandy American Cemetery
and Memorial with his family. He stops at a specific gravestone and
collapses in tears. The camera focuses on his eyes and the film flashes
back to D-Day with a depiction of the Omaha Beach landing that has to
be seen to be believed. This prolonged sequence is the film's and
Spielberg's crowning achievement. After the allied forces break
through, the film cuts back to events on American soil. At the War
Department of the United States it becomes apparent that three of four
sons of the Ryan family have been killed. The mother is about to
receive this tragic news in the form of three letters being sent
simultaneously. A General has this brought to his attention and 
remembering how Abraham Lincoln offered his heartfelt condolences to a
mother in similar circumstances  orders his officers to find the
remaining son (Matt Damon), who's somewhere in Normandy, and bring him
home. Enter Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) who, having just survived the
beach landing, is given the mission, gathers a small group of soldiers
and  with some reservations about the importance of the mission when
juxtaposed with the big picture  they all head further into Normandy
in search of a single soldier.The extensive Omaha Beach sequence is the single reason why anyone's
still talking about this film. The amount of planning required for this
scene must have been incredible and yet the entire scene still feels
'unplanned' and appropriately chaotic. It wouldn't be a stretch to name
this sequence the reason the film's been showered with Academy Awards.
Other aspects like acting and especially the cinematography and
production design are also praiseworthy, but that's pretty much where
it ends for me.I find the rest of the film to be something of a mixed bag. It
chronicles Miller and co's search for Private Ryan and all the
hardships they endure along the way. The main problem I have with the
rest of the film is that it feels contrived. The Omaha Beach sequence
is at once the film's saving grace and the reason the rest of the film
pales by comparison. Not that the rest of the film has nothing to offer
dramatically, it does, but it all feels too calculated, too contrived
and convenient as opposed to the radical and chaotic opening scene. For
instance, you expect the soldiers to bond over the course of their
journey before some of them die and how this is all supposed to elicit
our sympathy. You see this coming long before it happens and it's thus
not as impactful as it should be. And what about the oh-so dramatic
pause right before the sniper in the tower is shot by a tank's cannon,
designed so that we can symbolically say goodbye; Miller's clichéd
reference to his wife gardening with his gloves (all that's missing are
the images of white-picket fences); Ryan's two-minute monologue 
supposed to elicit our sympathy  which comes across as incredibly
awkward; the fact that Miller is shot by the same German whom he showed
mercy to several scenes ago and that it's the bookish Upham (of all
people) who 'earns his stripes' by conveniently killing him; old Ryan
saluting Miller's grave while trumpets hum patriotically in the
background; the fact that the filmmakers did the oh-so (for lack of a
better word) 'American' thing by bookending the film with shots of the
American flag softly lit by the afternoon sun, etc, etc. All these
scenes and more reveal a script purposefully crafted to the point of
dramatic perfectionand that's not a compliment. Why does the Omaha
Beach sequence still amaze after all these years? Because it represents
the horrors of war in purely visual terms. There is no dramatic logic,
only chaos; bodies and limbs flying everywhere, soldiers whimpering and
screaming. There are no allied soldiers and Nazis, just people trying
to survive. The rest of the film with all its carefully calculated
drama doesn't come within a country mile of effectively conveying the
same sense of horror.

******
27 November 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I´ve seen in my whole life! Tom Hanks is
brilliant, Janusz Kaminski´s cinematography is absolutley great, John
Williams music is (as usual) very, very good and Spielberg´s directing is
totally brilliant! The movie is very realistic and shaking, but I think
that
those who hasn´t seen this masterpiece should do it, even if they can´t
stand bloody scenes. I strongly recommend Saving private
Ryan!

******
16 September 2015
9
Summary: 4,413 men recorded dead in what is known as the turning point
of World War 2, the day of days, D-day.... Until Saving Private Ryan
there has not been a film that has come close to showing an entire
audience through a cinema screen just how tragic, terrifying and real
this war was. Saving Private Ryan is story about a group of eight men
led by Captain Miller (Tom hanks) who have been assigned to bring one
man home to his mother. A mother who has lost three of her sons due to
this war, and to lose a forth is inconceivable. A story of courage,
bravery, friendship, brother hood and belief there is hope for humanity
where all hope is lost. Until Saving Private Ryan there have been countless film adaptions of
World war 2, but few have attempted to bring the harsh reality of war
home to the viewing audience, and make you feel as if you are there.
Well, Spielberg has certainly achieved this. For the first 27 minutes
of the film, we witness one of cinemas most historical openings to a
film, but also one of histories most tragic and important moments -
D-day. You find yourself stunned into silence once the landing crafts
door spins open, as instantly you see young men mowed down by German
mounted machine guns, the sound of land mines, mortar fire and
screaming all adds to this horrific moment. Ignorantly you find
yourself questioning, and wondering why people are drowning? not
running? and not firing back? But then you remember you are sat in a
cinema or at home and will never experience the shear fear and loss of
humanity in moments like that.Like all directors, Spielberg is certainly not perfect, and there are
moments throughout this film that 'lack' information, and are in some
respect "Hollywood" such as we only witness the Americans running up
Omaha beach (but never hear about Juno, Sword, Gold, Utah), and granted
the majority of the soldiers storming Omaha were Americans, but where
are the rest of the Allies who assisted in the Omaha landing (after all
U.S.A won the war didn't they?). Regardless of some minor factual eras,
this opening is none the less a cinematic master piece (which won him
the Oscar for Best Director). Steven Spielberg not only aimed to show
the needless, countless and horrific violence of this war, he also has
tried to show us as an audience that in these dark times, humanity will
find a way, and that is the basis of our story (although a fictional
story, it is a heart felt and beautiful story, that will leave you on
the edge of your seat throughout). Saving Private Ryan is a film that has been noted, and criticised as
being needlessly violent, bloody and chaotic. You cannot argue that
violence, blood and chaos are entirely apparent from the get go, but
you certainly cannot say it is needless. Spielberg has masterfully
encapsulated a time in history where everything that was 'right', was
most definitely not. Cpt Miller, played by Tom Hanks, who in an Oscar nominated performance
(which lets face it, you wouldn't expect any less) will embark on the
mission of finding Private James Ryan (Iowa) the fourth brother, to
bring him home to his grieving mother. Tom hanks is accompanied by an
all star cast of seven men: Sargent Horvath (Tom Sizemore), Private
Reiben (Edward Burns), Private Jackson (Barry Pepper), Private Mellish
(Adam Goldberg), Private Caparzo (Vin Diesel), T-4 Medic Wade (Giovanni
Ribisi), Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies). If this cast alone isn't an
incentive to see the film, the story of their journey for humanity,
justice and to risk eight lives to save one will have you by the throat
throughout. As far as war films go, I can honestly say there has never
been one so close to the bone that you are left speechless, and feel as
if you are a witness to something you have only ever read or heard
about. Each characters struggle for survival and to simply make it back
home will remind you how lucky you are, but find also make you feel
like you are part of this mission. One of the most powerful moments in
this film, comes early on when the head of the US Army hears about the
mothers loss, and decides it is right to bring the fourth brother home.
Spielberg has included a letter Abraham Lincoln once wrote to a "Mrs
Bixby, in Boston" during America's most tragic of wars, the Civil War.
Although a letter written years before World War 2, it is written by
one of Americas most iconic and notable presidents who's vocabulary and
inspirational writing is still ever apparent today. The letter gives us
a sense that somewhere in the mist of all war and unspeakable violence
it is the families of these young men and women who are giving their
lives that really matters. "Executive Mansion, Washington, Nov. 21, 1864. Dear Madam,-- I have
been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the
Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you are the mother of five sons
who have died gloriously on the field of battle.I feel how weak and fruitless must be any word of mine which should
attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I
cannot refrain from tendering you the consolation that may be found in
the thanks of the Republic they died to save.I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your
bereavement, and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and
lost, and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a
sacrifice upon the altar of freedom.Yours, very sincerely and respectfully,A. Lincoln"

******
23 February 2015
10
From the invasions on Omaha Beach (D-Day), to the final battle in
Ramelle, this movie was as action packed and graphic as possible.
Anytime Spielberg and Hanks team up, it's pure gold. Especially this
time. Personally, I was on the edge of my seat during the entire
duration of this movie. If you're a war movie fan, I guarantee you that
this will make the top of your list. This is as real as war can get on
a TV screen. War movies completely changed after this film was released
in 1998. It has influenced the film industry as much as any other movie
out there. In my opinion, this is Spielberg's best work ever, as well
as Hanks. There are so many realistic parts of this movie, it's insane.
After all, it is based on a true story. People said that the D-Day
scene was so accurate, it might as well had been real. When it comes
down to it, this film is one of the most iconic films ever, and
arguably the best war movie ever created.

******
19 June 2001
7

First of all, the framing device for the movie is not just sappy but
downright manipulative and quite frankly impossible.  Anytime you frame a
flashback like that, you have to stay (mostly) within that characters
frame
of reference (I can't think of a single example that stays 100% in first
person--it's just not possible or practical).  How can Ryan look back in
time on someone else's life, while he's somewhere else?  I certainly doubt
that Hanks could have told him his life story so quickly.  Spielberg's no
idiot, so he knows that this isn't possible, which brings us back to the
manipulation factor and the chance to have a "surprise ending" in the
worst
possible sense.  I'd like to think Spielberg was trying to emulate the
experience of war (and not knowing who's going to live or who's going to
die) by making the old cliches of war movies (that the hero will live)
work
for him.  Because Spielberg makes us believe that Hanks' character isn't
going to die (we think he's the old man), then supposedly we'll be more
shocked and have more emotions when he is killed, as if we were
experiencing
war in real-time. For me this didn't work, because by Bull-S*** alarm
started blaring.  It has a high intolerance for lies, and that is pretty
much what the framing device does.  It promises one thing, but gives just
the opposite.If Spielberg had not included the framing device, I would have given the
movie a 9/10 instead of 7/10.  Why he felt he needed one, I don't know,
since, even beyond my other complaints, the framing device doesn't add
anything to the movie that couldn't have been done (and better) while we
were still in 1945.By the way, did they bury all of our dead in France in that graveyard?  I
thought that one was for those who died on the beach that first day (but
I'm
not sure).  Hanks was pretty far in by the time he died.One final point: the "evil", backstabbing German captive thing worked all
right as propaganda (and even better as a lesson in mob violence) back
when
Hitchcock directed his extraordinary Lifeboat in 1944(?), but when stolen
and put in Private Ryan, it just seemed like a plot device--he would just
as
likely have been grateful for being spared.  Or, as a hypothetical
situation
in which Germany invaded America, it is just as likely that an American
would do exactly the same thing as the German.  At least in Lifeboat, the
issue is thoroughly explored, while Private Ryan uses it merely to show
how
the weak-willed, peace-loving, prototype-hippie linguist learns that
killing
people in war is necessary.  Whatever happened to the less pro-active
attitude from Catch-22?

******
3 February 2015
10
I've seen my fair share of war films, but it's really surprising that
I've waited this long to finally see (in full) what is probably the
greatest WWII film ever made. There's probably no amount of words that
I could write that would do justice to what I feel like having seen
this for the first time. The only thing I regret is not having seen it
on a bigger screen (although, to be fair, I was 9 years old when this
first came out).The plot, as if anyone didn't know it by now, is that an Army captain
(Tom Hanks) who just landed at Normandy Beach is charged with
retrieving a Private Ryan, the last surviving of his mother's sons, and
returning him safely home. Of course, as all of the characters point
out several times throughout the film, they run into a lot of FUBAR
(Fouled Up Beyond All Recognition) situations. And if there's one truth
that this film gets at, it's that war is ugly (original, I know
right?). Still, the call of duty is just as important to every single
one of these men as is their devotion to each other. They face a lot of
moral quandaries, and even make some questionable decisions, but when
it all comes down they have each others' backs and the knowledge that
completion of the mission will earn them the right to go home. I can't
really think of a stronger motivation than that.Another thing which this film does right is with its selection of
story, which also plays into the human element. The mission isn't to
take a hill or some other landmark: it's to rescue someone. Using WWII
as a setting for this story allows the average person to really connect
with it on a deeper level than if it had just been a typical war film
with a large ensemble cast. And by the way, the cast in this movie is
pretty insane. Granted, there are many films before it (THE LONGEST DAY
is one example that comes to mind) that did the same thing, but the
attention to character in this one sets it apart from the rest. There
are elements of cliché, but every main character is fully fleshed out.This film is also extraordinary for its cinematographic approach.
Cinematographer Janusz Kaminski utilized a hand-held style which puts
you into the thick of the action and aptly portrays the chaos and
confusion inherent in those situations. This is also enhanced by a
gritty look partially achieved by shooting on film. Last, but not
least, there is an emotionally resonant score by John Williams which
punctuates the story at all the right moments yet is never intrusive or
overbearing. I also appreciated the diegetic use of the Edith Piaf
song, "Tu es partout" before a climactic scene, and which conveys to
the audience the feelings of the people these men left behind in
service to their country (even though it's a song about love lost, and
to be sure there were plenty of people who never came back).Overall every single one of these elements, including some I haven't
mentioned, combine to create a brutally realistic and emotionally
powerful depiction of war, the heights of which has been reached by
few. And not just that, it managed to do all of this without leaning
too far in the direction of being pro- or anti-war. It presents it as
is, the good with the bad, and doesn't demonize the enemy as so many
films are apt to do. Hopefully this hasn't been too long-winded, but
this is an incredible film that deserves to be seen by everyone.

******
6 December 2014
10
This film is a fantastic production with a quality cast. You sure will
not be disappointed watching this gripping film that is based on a true
story. Many war films have been made but this is by far the best I have
watched in a long time. Such a emotional film in which Tom Hanks could
not be replaced by any actor. If you like well made war films which are
based on a true story and made to give viewers a lasting impression and
something to think about than this Film should be your choice. Also if
you are a emotional person, tears will fall. The cast for this film has
been well selected and suit their characters.You will experience a
authentic view into the life of soldiers who have fought during the
D-Day landing in the Normandy France.

******
2 December 2014
10
This film gives you everything you could want in war film. Well
choreographed battle sequences and some real human emotion. Everybody
who has seen at least the first 10 minutes of this film then you know
it deserved some kind of award just for that great depiction of the
battle on Omaha beach. Sure there's still 2 hours and 30 minutes left after that but it only
makes the film better. After the battle tom hanks and several men are
assigned to a mission to retrieve Private Ryan un harmed and return him
home due to his two other brothers being killed leaving him the last
son alive. So now there is a good story for a war film and plenty of
movie left for various battles, subplots, and all sorts of things.The film even without the battle sequences would probably still work
thanks to the great emotional and raw scenes but it just wouldn't be a
10. This as you already know is definitely a film everybody needs to
check out at one point, your response to the film might be completely
different from mine so you make a review and express your opinion
you've acquired from watching the film. Thanks for reading my review
and be sure to check this film out.

******
18 August 2014
10
As the name suggests this a war-movie in which an agent named Capt.
Miller(Tom Hanks) is sent on a mission to save a soldier named Pvt.
James Ryan. Ryan's mother has already lost her three children in the
same war against the Germans. Movie starts with an approx. 25 minutes of a thriller action sequence
where the American forces are fighting against German forces at Omaha
Beach. Director Steven Spielberg has made this scene one of the most
epic real war sequence I have ever seen in a movie. Thousands of
soldiers died in this horrifying, dreadful sequence. Special effects by
cinematographer(Janusz Kaminski, also in Schindler's list) has made
this a perfect sequence. Protagonist Capt Miller survived this war, assembles a group of
soldiers to invade German troops and find Ryan. Movie depicts the
struggle of Miller and his team to complete their mission. Movie
becomes a little bit slow during the mission but still must be able to
hold the audience together.Intense emotion scenes, like when Ryan's mother is informed about the
tragic death of her three sons might make viewers cry and arouse
patriotic feeling in them. Movie showcase some good strategies,
teamwork, breakdowns and courage. All these things together complete
this movie and makes it much more interesting than any other fiction
movie.Tom Hanks's acting has raised the bar of expectations further high.
Steven Spielberg has done one of the greatest job you will ever see.
Realism in this movie makes it a must watch.

******
10 March 2014
10
A true classic. And honestly my favorite Spielberg and movie of all
time.STORYLINE: The storyline starts during Omaha Beach. Were we somewhat
meet are hero's. Around 30 minutes in the actual story comes into play.
Private James Ryan's (Matt Damon) 3 brothers are all killed in the line
of duty. So Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and all of his crew are set
to find him and bring him back home.CHARACTERS AND ACTING: The movie itself is powerful. The characters are
smartly written. Because they question the mission. Why would 8 guys go
over and save 1 man? Tom Hanks is as powerful as he ever is. He
portrays his character of a man who has suffered during times of war.
And his "That's my mission" speech always moved me. In short everyone
does a great job.OTHER: This movie is powerful. And after watching it you want to take a
shower and sing "The Star Spangled Banner" Because it is patriotic and
it makes you feel proud. And of course the first 25 minutes of the
movie is so incredibly well done that it makes shaky-cam look like a
masterpiece! And this film is a masterpiece!

******
29 January 2003
4

Three brothers in the Ryan family, who have enlisted to fight in the US
military in WWII, have been killed in various theaters of war.  As the
military prepares to notify the mother of the deaths of her three sons, they
discover that there's a fourth brother - Private James Ryan (Matt Damon).  A
group of soldiers led by Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) is sent to Northern
Europe to find him, if he is still alive, and send him home.  The film
follows there long, hard trek to find this man, and then get him
out.This is a great film, like many of Spielberg's are, but I have to say, it is
a bit overrated.  There are many great war films, and I wouldn't quite but
this one in the top five.  Definetly the top ten, better than most war
films, but not quite the top five.The action scenes are groundbreaking; this was a first in what was
considered acceptable in cinema.  Spielberg only focuses on this, though. 
We see what the troops go through physically, but not mentally; every now
and then, we get some strained expressions on their faces, but Spielberg
never uses his proven film making skills to put you in these guys shoes, to
let you know what they're thinking.Consequently, we only get half the story.  How can I put this in the top
ten, then?  Because the other half is just done so well.  There are also
good performances here - this is the only time I liked Vin Diesel. 
Remember, i'm not knocking this film - I put it in the top ten best war
films ever made.  Definetly a classic.  I just think it's stretching it when
people rave that this is the best war film ever.  Don't let this fool you -
buy a copy of this on DVD.

******
4 August 1998
3

The film may have been more than well-done gore-fest if any of the
 characters had been remotely interesting, I may have cared whether or not
 their lives were worth risking.  Their mission didn't seem any riskier than
 anything else they may have encountered.  There was no dramatic conflict. 
 The character-developing monologues were nauseating and the stories they
 told were recycled workshop material.  The true story upon which the film
 was based was totally undermined, and Spielberg's point of view is
 uncommitted, self-involved, and pedestrian.  He quotes Abraham Lincoln
 instead of exploring the issues, and asks for approval at the end.
 Frankly, the emptiness of the story, characters, and treatment wasn't worth
 the pain of the opening scene.


******
5 May 2015
10
AMAZING MOVIE EVER!!The first time that I watched this movie was in
school and I knew that I HAD to get it for myself! I love the way they
had the affects of guns and grenades. I can't wait for my son to be old
enough to sit and watch it with me :) I don't think any other movie
about war would even come close to Saving Private Ryan. Tom Hanks and
Matt Damon were a good pair, and would be good to pair up again! I
recommend this movie to A LOT of my friends. They come back and tell me
that it was remarkable, then they tell other people to watch it. I wish
that I could shake Spielberg's hand to say Thank You for making an
AWESOME movie and that I'm going to wear out my disc very soon.

******
6 December 2006
7
I wish I could view this movie like the average moviegoer. In that
case, I would probably have given it higher marks. However, I was in
the Army and know that dialogue such as is in this film would be highly
unlikely, no, impossible, to have been said in real life.The hierarchy in the service is very clear: privates do not contradict,
interrupt, defy, or in any way address their superiors as is depicted
in this film. I found a number of scenes to be pure Spielberg fantasy.
The scene in which Hanks doesn't provide the full name of the 'Ryan' he
is searching for, which results in Hanks delivering the wrong
information to the wrong 'Ryan', is hard to swallow. The scene with
Matt Damon protesting when told he is being taken off the front lines
is also hard to believe.The scene where Oppem (or whatever his name was) protests against
shooting the POW is absurd. No way that would have ever happened. Some
of the other unlikely aspects of the film: Tom Sizemore throws his .45
caliber pistol at the German; four soldiers pull the pins on their
grenades and drop them in the tank turret, yet none of them detonate.
The scene at the end when Tom Hanks starts firing at the tank with his
.45. In real life, he would have been dead by then after being shot in
the back with what amounts to a high powered rifle. The scenes after the Germans bring their 20 mm. cannon into action also
didn't get very far past the GI's first encounter with the fearsome
weapon. After it annihilates about six or seven GIs from one short
volley, one wonders why the Germans didn't make quick work of the rest
of the GIs after that.The dialogue was also a bit too pristine for my tastes. In reality, GIs
curse up a storm. These guys were a wee bit too polite and wholesome.
Platoon gave a much more accurate account of how GIs actually behave.These criticisms aside, the action scenes are well staged and evoke a
healthy pulse pounding for the viewer.

******
21 December 2005
6
We saw "Saving Private Ryan" as a family. My husband, who watches the
War Channels constantly to the extent that I walk by teasing him that
I'll let him know the end - "The Germans lose!", thought it was a fresh
spin on traditional war movies by showing the doubts of the soldiers. I thought it was just a color WWII movie as young 'uns refuse to see
black and white movies these days. I could match that this actor was
playing the William Bendix role, this one John Garfield's, this one
Robert Ryan's, this one Montgomery Clift, etc.Those movies were restricted by the Hays Code and the need to spur war
time spirit that they couldn't show doubts, though I remember some
revisionist movies made after about the impact on Berlin, another with
Robert Taylor vs. the Japanese on some island. Or even Bridge on the
River Kwai. So they weren't all jingoistic.I walked out of "Ryan" saying "Gee, war is hell." Edward Burns was excellent.The cinematography was terrific and compelling. (originally written 8/26/1998)

******
2 July 2002
4

This film displays Spielbergs childish wiev of the world. A wiev that has
done him good in so many films but is fatal for a war epic. He simply is
naïve in displaying the friendship, the combats not to mention the actual
plot which is near to being silly. That combined with the lame overall
acting makes this a grand disappointment. 4/10 because of the
cinematography.

******
27 June 2001
8

The beach scenes are absolutely fantastic, and I'm not sure if I did
breathe
at all during those sequences. The sound and the effects are amazing, the
use of small hand cams gave the whole thing a documentary feeling of the
hell that met the men who landed on the beach.
Sadly after that it is not too good, and the film quickly becomes a
standard
Hollywood WW2 film, with heroic Americans and stupid German soldiers. A
better story and less sentimentality (everyone understands that young men
being blow to pieces is a tragedy and this need not be pointed out by the
director. The price for freedom is high)would have given this film a
10/10.
I think the men who laid down their lives on the beaches in the fight to
free Europe deserves more than this.

******
15 February 2001
5

I can't believe that this film currently rates on IMDB higher than both
Paths of Glory and Platoon. The latter is one of the best anti-war films
ever made - by a man WHO WAS ACTUALLY THERE.Speilberg's technical mastery may be great but his characters are cardboard
and his understanding of men's motivation's is fatally flawed. As Oliver
Stone recognises in Platoon, soldiers fight for one another not a great
cause. As the Platoon Sergeant says in Hamburger Hill regarding the death of
one of the men: 'He died taking out that automatic weapon for you and third
squad - and don't you give him anything less.'

******
4 October 1999
6

Overall, this is a well made film that is not well written.  Sure the
opening scenes (Normandy) are dramatic and touch you deeply, but as soon
as
the allies secure the beach, the movie begins to fail.Surely there is a better script for a film about WWII in the European
theater that would have served as a good vehicle for the dramatic first
half-hour in this movie.

******
2 August 1998
3
Any movie that opens with a lengthy shot of the American flag has
got
problems.In general, I thought it superficial, poorly written and poorly directed.
Spielberg has a penchant for thrusting his movies upon his viewers, spoon
-feeding them morality in doses of banal righteousness. I personally don't
go to the movies to be treated like a schoolkid and taught a lesson so
elementary, vague, and though ultimately true, trite.Those who see Saving Private Ryan as a revelatory view of war obviously
slept through High School History. War is gruesome, war isn't fun, war
sucks. Glad to see the truth Spielberg, but dizzying freehand camera shots,
pointless music (the music sucked throughout), and timed successions of
loud booms gave me more of a headache than visceral enlightenment. About 5
minutes into the D-Day scene, when the cacophony of camera shots and dead
bodies reached its apogee, I asked myself:  "Why did Spielberg put this in?
Did he have any real reason except to embellish the gruesomeness of war?
Does this really contribute to the movie?" I found the answer to be
no.Then there's the plot and characters ... wait, what plot and characters?
Here are 8(?) men meandering through French territory wondering why they
are all such damn stereotypical and superficial characters. There's the
bookworm, the Italian, the Southerner, the Jew, etc. In the end I can't
feel very much for any of these characters  cause they're
not even human to me; they're typecasts. Even Tom Hanks (who does a
worthy job), remains distant and emotionally inaccessible (due to poor
writing). (So we know that his hand shakes and he teaches English. BFD)
Spielberg could take a lesson from, say, John Sayles, about character
development.Then there's the plot. From the title, I expected there to be more focus on
Saving Private Ryan. Instead, the group wanders through Normandy and the
hunt for Ryan becomes unimportant and adventitious. The movie's impetus is
seriously lacking, and I accredit this to poor directorial focus. Spielberg
had problems finding a point to direct the energy of the war to, and
instead directed it towards some vague moral standard. Unlike, say,
Apocalypse Now, where the search for Brando has a singular focus on him,
the soldiers wander aimlessly and haphazardly stumble upon Ryan in the most
obtuse and anticlimatic fashion possible. On their way they go through a
perfectly crafted sine curve of battles and traumas, discoveries and
enlighenments. And as soon as I saw Ted Danson I couldn't help but drift to
place where everybody knows your name and guys in pasty blue uniforms named
Cliff down Heneiekens. Now THAT'S poor focus.In the end I could predict flatly what would happen. Yes, it's a true story,
so Spielberg was limited, but the presentation was just too flat. The
ending  is so utterly pitiful and righteous I wanted to puke. 
"So, this is what the movie came down to?" I thought as the American flag
waved me goodbye. "War is bad. America is good. Death is bad. Life is good.
" Drink Bud.

******
26 March 2009
6
All in all this isn't a bad war flick, its got a good story that flows
well and i enjoyed it for the most part, there were a few moments that
were dull and slow moving but on the whole it moved well and kept me
interested. However the dialogue is not up to scratch in some areas
particularly when the band of soldiers first set out to find Ryan, its
very banal. A major problem i had with the film (and it is a fairly big
one) is the nauseating patriotism that emanates from it. This seems to
be a problem with others here as well, it's just irritating and spoils
the whole movie for me, it's hard to ignore it because it is felt
throughout the movie, in some parts more than in others, especially at
the end there where the American planes bomb the German positions and
the viewer once again has America to thank for saving the day. I just
can't stomach that really.

******
28 July 2002
2
The audio engineering and sound effects are the best of any war picture
ever.  This is among many valid reasons why SAVING PVT RYAN is a must-see
movie.  However, do not expect perfection.  Do not expect this film will
live up to all of the hype.Briefly stated, members of the WWII generation spoke with a formality not
captured in SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.  Unlike Hanks et al, Rock Hudson, Jimmy
Stewart, Earnest Borgnine, and many old-time actors served in WWII.  Even
more future writers, directors and Hollywood producers served as well. 
Their later film efforts accurately captured the feel of the times.  The
difference is rather striking.  Please view any movie or even a TV
production created by members of the Greatest Generation and see for
yourself how it compares to RYAN.    As unlikely as it may seem, one can even hold out "Hogan's Heroes" -- a
light TV comedy set during WWII created in the early 60's by men who had
experienced WWII -- as a Hollywood production better capturing the essence
of WWII era interpersonal communication.  The characters in HOGAN naturally
and automatically interacted with each other with the yes sir's and no
sir's, personal respect and greater formality common in the 1940's.  Looking
further, any Hollywood film produced in the 40's and 50's captured the
essence of the day even better.Where a lightweight TV comedy succeeds, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN shockingly
fails.  Characters in RYAN interact with the casual ease of 1998, and NOT
with the formality common in the 1940's.  Rather than appearing to be part
of the Greatest Generation, the actors in PRIVATE RYAN seem to be following
the motivations of modern Hollywood producers who know only today's post
Viet-Nam contempt, scorn and cynicism.  Speaking of cynicism, the subplot of
the General's high class transport plane was completely made up in SAVING
PRIVATE RYAN -- made up by a post Viet-Nam Hollywood.
 

******
25 March 2001
2

Tom Hanks and Co. sneak across battlefields to bring home the titular
private, while staying one step ahead of Col. Klink and Sgt.
Schultz.This has to be the most over rated film in recent history. The Germans
are
portrayed so flatly that they may as well have saved money on actors and
used cardboard stand-ups. But check out how kind hearted those U.S.
soldiers
are! They spare the life of an enemy!! They risk a dozen men for the life
of
one, who may not even be alive!! What?? Are these tears on my keyboard as
I
type this?This film is one that *appears* to be portraying humanity at it's lowest
and highest...but in reality it is a sham, perpetrated by a Spielbergian
wizard, pulling his levers behind a curtain of propaganda. At it's best,
this movie is a pro-war advertisement masquerading as patriotism for
humanity. At it's worst...well, look around, you're soaking in
it.I'd refer anyone who is interested to read Howard Zinn's essay in his
book
"Howard Zinn On War". He talks a bit against this movie in a way I could
never do, because he was there.


******
15 June 2000
2

I will be blunt 2 out of 10. The only people who will rave about this are
Americans who have won this war but the First and every other war that has
happened (just watch U-571 if you don't believe me and to think in really
life and not films it was the British that got the Enigma machine!). Steven
Spielberg I would just like to say how believable the first half an hour was
with the scenes on the beach. Someone as young as me can only imagine the
horrors of what those brave men (that is British, Australian, French, Dutch
etc) went through in both World Wars (to me and the trenches of the First
would be the most horrific). These behind the scenes men would not care
about one person and other men could not be spared to go and find him! I
know for a fact they do not as my Great Grandmother had to endure something
similar in the First World War! I also wonder if these script writers do any
research or care about history? The answer is no.

******
2 January 2000
10

This film is absolutely the most realistic war movie ever made.  Some
people
have panned it because it doesn't show enough of the efforts of the other
Allied Forces.  It wasn't about the Allied effort, it was about Saving
Private Ryan.  Some people even called the Allies the Axis.  How can you
take their comments seriously, when they don't know the good guys from the
bad guys.  Tom Hanks was remarkable as the Ranger Captain, although it is
hard to picture a forty something Captain leading an assault team on D-Day.
10 out of 10.

******
5 March 2005
3
First of all I have to say i like the special effects of this movie,
that's why it gets 3 out of 10. What does this film show us ? Steven
Spielbergs "Masterpiece" of a war-movie "shows" us how history can be
changed just to show German peoples as backstabbing, chicken-hearted
and dumb. OK, the war has been lost, GOOD, I'm glad Germany lost that
war. But the film does not display the truth. We all know Americans are
the best soldiers, best humans, everyday when they wake up thinking
about how to save the planet this time because they are the best
peoples on this planet. So you see that soldier running to the bunker
because he is an American, always ready to risk his own life for
Worldpeace. If its the bad Russians, Japanese or Germans, we need to
save this planet from them. I have one question. Who will save us from
these intolerably Americans ?

******
16 February 2004
3

This was a piece of fictional propoganda showing how only the Americans
(and, I think, the Germans) were involved in WWII.Utter Baloney!The series Band of Brothers put together by Spielberg and Hanks was
tremendously real and honest. Their consciences must have been guilty over
the movie. They more than made up for it with the series.

******
22 July 2002
4

This is a great movie if you did not see WW II movies before.  I have and
this film is unoriginal.  It is not that bad, except the part with the
Jewish American fighting with the German over the knife.  I never seen and
American lose the knife strugle before in a movie.  I guess that is why they
do not make TJ Hooker shows anymore they have been so over done, who would
watch.  In the end I like Hanks but that is about it. 4/10

******
20 July 2002
4

This gruesome, big-budget film from Steven Spielberg, is saved only by its
skilful direction. I can honestly say that every single other aspect of
this
film was d-grade. If you are looking for an excellent  modern war film pick
up a copy of the SHOCKINGLY UNDERRATED 'The Thin Red Line'. SPR is only
famous because of it's highly publicised 'blood letting'. The war scenes
are highly graphic and exciting, but it fails to shock us and reveal to us
the true horrors of war.  It is pretty clear that the writers took about 25
minutes on a Sunday afternoon in between innings at the cricket to concoct
this crap. Tom Hanks, the boring, mainstream Hollywood, 'all American'
actor, fails to please in this film (same with every other film he has been
in). The rest of the cast are just as bland as Hanks, and fail to give us
an
interesting interpretation of their already pointless characters.


******
10 July 2002
3

Much has been made of the "realism" of this movie because thecombat scenes are graphic, intense, and more accurate in therange of detail than much of what came before it. But as much wasmade of the "authenticity" of this movie because of the attention todetail made in its preparation. For instance, Spielberg bought upthe last stock of original legging and strap material to make part ofthe uniforms, real M-1 rifles, searched exhaustively for the beachappropriate for shooting that was absolutely closest to theappearance of Normandy in 1944, and so forth.But let's think about that. What's the point of having an "authentic"cartridge belt, except that the audience knows about this from thereviews, planted press stories, etc.? A replica can be made to lookmore like the authentic thing than the authentic thing itself, giventhe aging of the intervening years. But this was a sort of formalisticpost-modern exercise engaged by the filmmakers to convincehimself and the audience, before even seeing the movie, thatwhat they were seeing represented the "truth".<potential spoiler follows>The opening scene of the aged Ryan, walking the graveyards ofNormandy, reflecting on the sacrifice of so many of his comradesjust so he could walk there with his adoring grandkids, is a classicexample of Spielberg heavy-handedness. He has to inject atone-deaf repetition of the 'why we fight' message into thebeginning, end, and middle of this movie to show that it was 'allworth it'. Spielberg, being a literalist, has every character in thesquad pontificate on the subject along the way to locate PrivateRyan.Why? Why do eight guys get themselves killed just to save one?Well, the needs of the one sometimes outweigh the needs of themany. Frankly, Star Trek III made the point somewhat more subtly. Or is it the words put into Tom Hanks' character's mouth, "I'm justfighting for the right to go home to my wife"? There's no elucidationof this point here, just a ham-fisted morphing flashback andflashforward to hammer home the point 'hey, this is connected tothe present' leaving the viewer to connect up the soundbyte
dots.I won't go into the many war movie cliches this film engages in.Because Spielberg put together the celebrated first 20 minutes ofthis movie, some of the most stunning combat sequences put onfilm, does not excuse him the rest of the movie's repeated use ofB-movie props and stereotypes. Even the use of "documentary"film techniques in the combat sequences is a bit too precious: it'sreferential to real film of real combat, but hardly 'documentary'.Documentary evidence shows things that happened: this filmuses the technique to try to convince the viewer that a fictive,simplistic interpretation of war, the whys and the whats, is "reality".The verisimilitude of the visuals of the combat sequences doesnot make it "real". Using authentic materials from World War IIdoes not make it "real".  At the bottom of this movie is one versionof a fairy tale about war.For that reason I think 'Private Ryan' is a dangerous film, becauseit's become the primary historical education for most people aboutD-Day, World War II, and American participation in the mostcataclysmic event in history to date, and it's about as "true" to thatcomplex history as John Wayne was to the history of the West. Anexciting, hard-hitting action combat sequence that gets theapproval of veterans sixty-years removed from the events as being"like what it was" isn't history. It's constructing a virtual reality thatthreatens to overtake, engulf, swallow, and become history, like apod person in Invasion of the Body Snatchers.I am left mostly wondering what Sam Fuller could've done withSpielberg's budgets.

******
17 August 1999
1

Cut off the intro and the epilogue bits -- start with the landing craft
headed for the beach and end with the scene in the street, and you'd have
a
pretty good movie.  I just resent it when Spielberg pulls out some kind of
emotional 2x4 to repeatedly hit me over the head, saying "feel this way,"
"ok now this way."  Lacks subtlety.  I feel like I'm being very
purposefully
yanked around rather than being allowed my own reaction to the words and
images.

******
13 February 2002
1

In the late 1980's, there was the Vietnam War backlash ("Platoon,"
"Hamburger Hill," "Full Metal Jacket," etcetera, those of which were quite
good). And now in the late 1990's/2000-2002, there is the World War II
backlash ("Thin Red Line," "Band Of Brothers," "Pearl Harbor,"
etcetera)...only what it produces is not near as high quality as the Vietnam
backlash. The 'epic' "Saving Private Ryan" is no exception; the usually
great Tom Hanks gives a sour performance, as does just about everyone else.
Yet another bitter installment in the WWII backlash fad.
--Bud Sturguess, Texas

******
12 November 2001
1

The first several minutes (after an introductory scene) show a vivid
description of D-Day on one of the beaches invaded by American forces. 
Anyone who has read Cornelius Ryan's _The Longest Day_ already has images
like those in his head (read the book, it's one of the best histories ever
written).  It starts the problem.  There's too much of a jerky-camera
effect.  It's acceptable in the battle scene, but hardly in the rest of the
movie, rendering it unwatchable for people like me.What I did see was a pretty fair fictional story based on a true story.  Of
course, a director like SS is hardly going to tell just a story, but has an
agenda he's working behind the scenes, manipulating us into some snare or
other where we have to accept his worldview on things.  After all, we just
*saw* it -- so it must be that way, right?Unfortunately, I couldn't see enough of it because of the camera work to try
to decipher his hidden agenda.  I don't even know how the movie came out,
and frankly I don't care.  Cloying as SS is in all his movies, this film is
curiously unengaging, and the characters show little advance (Nazi, American
GI) from the "Indiana Jones" films, which are still his best
achievements.

******
2 October 2001
2

Stupid is maybe the wrong way to describe it. But after hearing SO much
about it and reading here that it´s the "best war movie ever", I was
sorely
disappointed.First of all, the "great exciting 30 minutes" beginning nearly gave me an
epileptic seizure with all that jerky camera movement. I´m glad I watched
this on DVD and not in the cinema, because I could turn on the subtitles,
otherwise I wouldn´t have understood a word of what the characters were
saying because of all that BANG! BOOM! EXPLOSION!The plot. Well, the ridiculous plot has been discussed to death here by
many
others, so I won´t get into it. The "great surprise ending"? I saw that
coming from the beginning, but maybe that´s because the movie isn´t called
"Saving Private Ryan", but "Der Soldat James Ryan" over here. That reminds
me, the Germans, when they were speaking german, were pretty horrible (I
watched the original english version) - I doubt those were authentic
Germans, which is strange because Spielberg usually thrives on
authenticy.Finally, there was too much comedy (especially that "Here, I am James
Ryan"
thing, that was so weak) for a serious war movie. I can do with the
bickering of the soldiers among each other, but this movie was a bit
overdoing it - it´s cool in an Indiana Jones movie, because hey, Indy´s an
action COMEDY, but here, it didn´t work.

******
15 October 1999
1

What a poor film, it just consists of two very long battles with a weak
plot
linking them together.  I didn't relate to the characters and didn't care
that Tom Hanks was a teacher.  So the battles were graphic and show the
horrors of war in detail, but this doesn't make a film.May be my history lessons were wrong, but I thought that there were more
countries on the allied side than just America.

******
23 October 2003
3

The greatest war movie ever?  Come on, folks, who are you trying to kid. 
While SPR is certainly a technical tour de force, in emotional, spiritual,
historical and narrative terms it stinks, for the same reason most of
Spielberg's films (with the exception of Schindler's List, marvellous)
stink:  the man has no vision, and little or no artistic integrity.  (Why
else does he churn out rubbish like Jurassic Park II? I'll tell you why -
money.)SPR is dishonest, silly and trite, an insult to the men who died in the real
D-Day landings.  The story premise, as others here have pointed out, is
risible, the framing device unnecessary and stupidly sentimental.  How
anybody over the age of 9 can rate this film higher than genuine
masterpieces such as Paths of Glory, All Quiet on the Western Front or Cross
of Iron is beyond me.  Still, a lot of people who visit this site think Star
Wars and Lord of the Rings are the greatest films ever made, which probably
explains something.Watch the first 20 minutes, and then switch off.  Pants.


******
20 September 2000
1

What does everyone see in this film?  I'm guessing that people described it
as intelligent in order to justify their enjoyment of it, rather than
admitting that it is just a cheesy blockbuster.  Like most of Spielberg's
work, it is trash masquerading as art.  The only Spielberg film that I like
is Raiders of the Lost Ark, because doesn't pretend to be anything more than
an enjoyable lark.

******
28 June 2009
1
After reading some of the 'immaculate' appraisals of this film, I am
compelled to explain WHY this film sucks. Sadly, these days there is a
declining number of people who can properly and objectively evaluate
movies just as there are less and less movies worth evaluation. First,
this movie DID NOT win Best Picture. Why? For a WWII epic from
Spielberg with this Hollywood cast, unlimited budget, and the
notoriety, it speaks volumes about the movie itself that it did not
win. The movie had many aspects which merited praise. But far more of
it deserved our disdain and disappointment. It is a shame that so few
movie viewers can observe the following egregious flaws in a film
trumpeted by most here as 'the best war film ever'. First, let me say
that the film had only ONE redeeming quality- that of the battle
scenes. Very impressive in every way. That's it. That's all. It's all
downhill from here. The main failure of this film lies in the fact that
it does NOT draw in the audience. There is NO cohesion of characters,
zero empathy. I did not care at all about any of the soldiers. Why?
Mainly because they were all well-known actors stupidly picked by
Spielberg, and there were LOTS of them- just read the cast of actors.
This is a huge distraction. I cannot feel the soldiers' pain and grief
when they are ALL actors I've seen in movies and TV shows. What a
STUPID, boneheaded, amateur mistake by Spielberg. Every scene in the
movie has a another actor I know pretty well and whose personalities
distract me. Further, all the actors seemed like they did not 'fit' in
the 1940s era. They seemed too modern. Too anachronistic. They used too
many curse words (which were not used in those days, at least to that
degree) and were really 'cheesy'. They all seemed like actors, NOT real
soldiers- AND cheesy BAD actors at that. After watching Band of
Brothers, one can really identify with the characters, all the
characters not just the 'band'. But in Ryan, there is literally ZERO
compatibility with the actors. They didn't 'flow' together like fellow
soldiers- all seemed to be out of place- hamming up the screen; too
much for viewers to take in. Again, the fact that they are ALL
well-known actors (and the cameos by Ted Danson and others made it
really Hollywoodish and corny). Essentially, I just didn't care
remotely about any of the actors- simple. Another annoyance were
Hollywood 'touches' like the cheesy prayer the sniper man made every
time he aimed for a shot or the annoying Jewish remarks actor/comedian
Goldberg made throughout or Diesel's tough-guy mantra, or Tom Hanks'
continuous confused 'look'. Spielberg also displayed a disproportionate
amount of anti-German efforts. He made typical German soldiers (not the
SS) out to be vicious monsters, a lot of which might be true, but the
bias was very distracting in the movie. Seeing a freed German soldier
return to kill Tom Hanks (the one who freed him) as well as the German
who mercilessly and VERY slowly with a knife pierced the only Jewish
solider's heart as he begged for mercy and cried...was a very excessive
and blatant anti-German effort by Jewish Spielberg- upsetting mostly
because it changed the tone of the movie in a very obvious way. Anyway,
the entire movie needed more development and the characters (each of
them) were severely miscast. It is an obvious Hollywood production
which lacks authenticity NOT in the action and special effects, BUT in
something far more important in ANY film---plot, script, good acting,
and empathy. Private Ryan misses the boat. Strongly recommended is Band
of Brothers. Instead of cheesy Tom Hanks acting in it, he directs and
does a brilliant job. The series is addictive and priceless...and it
makes Private Ryan look like a high school production- thank God the
Oscars had the courage to deny it Best Picture. But not enough courage
to deny Spielberg Best Director- they wouldn't dare do that. LOL. 'nuff
said.

******
4 February 2007
4
This movie completely over rated don't get me wrong the acting is
superb but it's the storyline which angers me. This movie favors the
Americans way too much. I mean during the duration of this movie all
you is is American soldiers and Germans. It makes it look as if the
Americans were the only ones fighting the war.My question is where are the British the Canadians and the other
various nations that were fighting this war long before the Americans
entered. This movie's storyline is completely ridiculous the American
Army would not spend that much time looking for one private they have
bigger and better things to do.For historical accuracy it 5.5 although the props and costumes and
terminology is accurate the entrance where the soldiers are scrambling
for safety isn't Americans did have air support but the American pilots
were so bad at math the miscalculated and hit there own men.I think this movie is a load of American loving bull and a real WWII
movie should covers all the perspectives of EVERY nation not just one.
Especially not the one that came in at the last minute.I say this as a Canadian JTF2 corporal.

******
1 October 2002
5
The technical aspects of "Saving Private Ryan" (effects, scenery,... )
have
been done in a really good way.
But unfortunately, that's the only good thing to say about the
movie.*spoilers ahead*The movie can be divided into two parts: The landing at Omaha Beach, and
the
mission to save Private Ryan.The landing is by far the better part. And yet it fails: The watcher
doesn't
get involved into the (technically perfect) action on the screen. Men are
mowed down by machine gun fire, and you couldn't care less. And a war
movie
that doesn't make the watcher feel the cruelty of war is a
failure...After the landing, things become worse:- The entire premise of the second part (saving a Private who's three
brothers died) is pathetic - and it's even presented in a even more
pathetic
way.- The main characters are faceless (only Tom Hanks' and Jeremy Davies'
roles
got some profile), and you don't really care about them.- The 'enemy' is not only faceless, too. He's also dumb. His only purpose
in
the film is to mindlessly rush forward to be gunned down by G.I.s.
(making
all the fighting feel fake)- Too many 'coincidences' that pull the movie along (Ryan is just where
he's
most needed, the bridge get's blown away 'at the last moment
possible',...)- The film is predictable, making a lot of the 'search' for Private Ryan
pointless and the discussions about the mission pointless (Private Ryan
is
not dead, as anybody expects anyway. No, he did not return to base. Yes,
he's fighting the Germans. No, he won't leave his comrades. Yes, the
rescue
team stays to man the defense.)- It has all elements of a Hollywood movie (except the love scene): a
main
character that proves worthy, a main character that dies for what he
believes in, a man that proves manhood by killing for the first time, the
American flag at the end (and everywhere else), the treacherous bad
guy...*end of spoilers*Conclusion:
It's your 08/15 American feel good war movie. Don't expect anything
more...
(If you want something more 'real' watch "Full Metal Jacket", "Platoon"
or
"Apocalypse Now")

******
21 February 2006
9
The story happened in the Second World War. Private Ryan's three elder
brothers were killed in battles. The US army decided to send Ryan back
to home to alleviate his mother's pain. Captain Miller accepted the
task, though he was not satisfied with it including other members. It
was said that Ryan was in German-dominated-France-area. Every team
member knew its hardship.The opening battle that happened in Omaha beach was fierce and
unforgettable. The similar scenes also occurred in wonderful TV series
Band Brothers. When Miller led seven people to execute the mission,
that reminded me of The lord of the rings. Of cause the task in TLOTR
was more difficult.Life is precious. However a war can easily kill many people. The war is
ruthless so that you must be cold-blooded or get killed in battlefield.
Peace is really what we should cherish.An excellent thought-provoking war drama. 9/10

******
30 April 2005
9
Saving Private Ryan is a top WWII film and I've seen it a dozen times.
As the film starts we are presented with a hundred or so ships coming
across the sea. Suddenly violence erupts and soldiers are slaughtered
on the D-Day Assualt. In the assualt, Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) leads
his platoon up and around the German lines for a flank attack. Across the ocean, a mother receives three KIA letters in the same day
but is promised that her youngest son, Private Ryan (Matt Damon) will
be found in France and sent home. On the Normandy beach, Captain Miller
and his platoon will be sent on a suicide mission across France to find
Private Ryan and battle across the German lines. Through the whole
mission the soldiers are pushed to the limit with the death of comrades
and questioning of the mission.Steven Spielberg works his magic again with the presentation of one of
the most honored war movies in film history. Tom Hanks is strong, smart
and above all good as Captain Miller. There is also a surprise with one
of Vin Diesel's first roles as Private Caparzo. The violence is brutal,
bloody, and well crafted. Each character is interesting and their fears
and weaknesses are each expressed in the film.Saving Private Ryan. Starring: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edwards Burns,
Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel, and Matt Damon.4 1/2 out of 5 Stars

******
13 August 2002
1

I try to understand why people like this movie besides the realistic gore.
I
can't figure it out the story was not good at all in any way. also it
makes
the enemies seem heartless and idolizes america. What also makes me mad is
the people who say it is the best war movie ever. I could name so many
more
that are better like the thin red line, paths to glory, glory, ran, Dr.
Strangelove, lawrence of Arabia, the deer hunter, das boot, the killing
fields, brave heart, stalag 17, and in my opinion the greatest apocalypse
now. Those are just a few I don't want to name them all because it would
take to long.

******
13 December 2007
1
A WWII movie for people who have never seen a real WW 11 movie. Gross
oversimplification of the facts, highly unrealistic portrayal of the D
Day landing, graphic violence to the nines{all in excruciating close-up
shots} and the most stereotyped Nazis since Mel Brooks "The Producers".
Film is good looking, but like Clint Eastwoods "Flags of our Fathers",
it just doesn't ring true. But unlike FOOF which does have some truth
behind it, this one looks like it was made up as they went along. Tom
Hanks is OK in what basically is a no-name actors movie. Spielberg
spoon feeds everything to us like we have no brains of our own. Many
WW11 vets criticized the events as portrayed. While I was not there, I
tend to believe them. Saving Pvt Ryan? Save your money instead!Zero
Stars.

******
6 February 2007
4
The best thing I can say about this movie is that it is passable
entertainment which, if you know anything about The 'Berg's intention
for the film, was not the point. This movie was released to
overwhelmingly consistent reviews which frequently referred to it as
"one of the best war movies ever made". Imagine my disgust when I saw
it...The opening battle is undeniably brilliant in terms of putting you in
the middle of the action/horror, but it relies solely on Spielberg's
ability to push the right buttons and is almost totally ineffective on
second viewing.Personally, I knew this film was going to be a disaster pretty early
on. To be precise, I knew it when, in the midst of this mind-blowing
battle sequence, Spielberg thought it'd be fun to throw in a joke about
Sizemore being Hanks' mother.WHY?!? He had everyone on the edge of their seat (literally, I remember
looking around the theatre and every jaw was dropped) and he decides to
lighten the tone by dropping in a fricking JOKE?!?From here the film goes from bad to worse to utter garbage, as we are
dragged through a war-is-hell-by-numbers affair. Never one to miss an
opportunity to manipulate, Spielberg makes us endure some pretty feeble
philosophising, Ted Danson trying to be serious (yes, Ted Danson), a
token "death of the youngest soldier" tragedy and some of the most
sentimentally contrived dialogue I have ever suffered, which never
really stood a chance coming from the worst group of two-dimensional
characters ever assembled for a movie.Then there's the premise; a group of men is sent across the country to
find one guy because good ol' compassionate Uncle Sam thinks the
titular soldier's poor Ma has suffered enough in losing her other three
sons. Is this a joke?!?"But it's a true story" I hear you cry. Wrongo! It may have been
inspired by a true story, but that doesn't mean that anything beyond
the name James Ryan actually existed. The words "inspired by a true
story" don't mean a thing these days and, let us not forget, this is
Spielberg.Let us not forget indeed, as Stevie does inject some excitement and
tension into the action set pieces, even if they are overlong,
predictable, and dangerously close to many a scene from many a war
movie that came before it. The final sequence falls on its arse before
it even begins due to the hilarious, A-Team style montage that precedes
it, in which we see our apple-pie heroes create a stronghold from
various items they find lying around a conveniently deserted village,
before the six or so of them defeat an entire platoon of those nasty
Germans.Perhaps the worst crime this film committed was being released against
Terrence Mallick's 'The Thin Red Line', and subsequently taking the two
Oscars which by right belonged to the latter (Best Director and Best
Cinematography).'Ryan's Privates' pales in comparison not just to Mallick's film (as
well as to Spielberg's other "classic" manipulative-therapy session,
'ET') but to almost every war movie I have seen ('Cross of Iron',
'Apocalypse Now', 'Platoon', 'All Quite on the Wetsern Front'), even
those which do not profess to be the greatest war epic of all time or
even take themselves seriously ('Mash', 'Kelly's Heroes', 'Where Eagles
Dare', 'The Eagle Has Landed'). One great battle scene does not a great
war movie make, but try telling the Academy that.Bottom line? Don't expect more than a sub-par Spielberg offering and
you won't be disappointed. Expect a profoundly moving war classic, and
you'll be choking on your rage like I was when I left the cinema nine
years ago.

******
1 October 2008
1
This movie is similar to the other Stephen Speilburg productions like
"The Pacific" and "Band of Brothers." These productions focus too
closely on the individual soldiers sentimental personal problems.
Combat strategy and the historical accuracy of wartime is significantly
diminished with the "slice of life" theme adopted here. Consequently,
the poor screen writing matches the "sentimental" theme which is out of
place for a wartime historical combat production. Saving Private Ryan
was made using ideas from "Kelly's Heroes" (1970)and an episode from
"Amazing Stories" about D Day (Charlie Sean) and were put together to
make a silly war fiction aka Saving Private Ryan. There is a scene in
the movie where the squad of soldiers are seen casually walking in
farmland of the French countryside near Carentan behind enemy lines
(taken from Kelly's Heroes). The casual walk is grossly inaccurate to
history. It would have been impossible to stroll in the open French
farmland near Carentan as featured in private Ryan because the Germans
had sophisticated defense lines or "belts" constructed everywhere and
where machine gun nests and large caliber guns were often placed at
several locations to intercept the same targets which proved very
deadly for the allies. The Saving Private Ryan squad would have been
spotted and dealt with very quickly. The allies had to use combined operations with tanks, aircraft and
artillery to destroy the sophisticated bunkers and dugouts the Germans
constructed everywhere. The allies used high explosive shells to
destroy enemy bunkers, cluster bombs, and special shells that would
burst in the open air to kill soldiers caught in the open.Operation "Cobra" scheduled for 24 July 1944 was delayed because of
deteriorating weather for 25 July 1944. However, one squadron of US
bombers which took off wasn't recalled. General McNair the most senior
American General in Normandy and hundreds of US personnel were killed
when the squadron bombed too close to the operation Cobra "start
lines." Saving Private Ryan is a silly wartime fiction movie similar to "Band
of Brothers" and "The Pacific" where there is too much emphasis with
the soldiers sentimental personal problems. The combat scenes recreated
by Stephen Speilburg are devoid of combat strategy and historical
accuracy. The combat scenes in Saving Private Ryan are just slugging
matches. I would prefer to have seen Jerry Bruckheimers productions of
"Saving Private Ryan" and "Band of Brother" and "The Pacific."

******
26 October 2007
1
To borrow from one of the more absurd lines in the movie, 'maybe
getting the dishes out of the way would be the one decent thing we
managed to pull out of this whole god-awful mess.' I'd have expected
the producer of 'Schindler's List' to know better than to allow the
actual line I reference to remain in a story about WWII.By the way, having failed to have the good sense at the first one, I
certainly should have walked out at the second portrayal of a soldier
on death's door crying out loud for his mother as battle raged around
him. "Best war movie" indeed. In my opinion, even if 'Saving Private Ryan'
hadn't been irritatingly implausible, it still would have been plain
silly.

******
16 April 2001
1

What a piece of trash, if you want to see a war movie that is good see
Thin
Red Line.  SPR is poorly acted, the cinematography is below average and
the
entire movie is flawed with inaccurate and misleading information.  This
movie is an example of what is wrong with Hollywood and the way big studio
movies are made, thier #1 objective is to make money off the movie at any
cost even if that means turning out a piece of garbage that leads the
public
to believe this is the best out there, when in fact the opposite is
true.

******
11 November 2000
2

Spielberg has once again lost the plot. This was a terrible war movie
covering no new ground, but instead recycling the same old war issues in a
dull manner. The opening scene was spectacular for five minutes and boring
for the next twenty minutes. Enough is enough. In typical Spielster fashion the movie was too long, and the Spielster had
way too much money in his budget. I would love to see him use some creative
material like his 70's movies such as "Close Encounters of the Third Kind".
How humiliated the Spielster must have felt after comparing the superb "The
Thin Red Line" next to his babbling mess.Sorry Spielster, 2 out of 10.

******
15 December 2007
1
Between hobnobbing in Martha's Vinyard, Spielberg has, as we know, been
trying to claim the holocaust, slavery, war, and other ethical
properties as his (American) own. Now there is an ambition.The message for this film can well be construed as Do What the General
Says, Because It's the Right Thing to Do. Feel Good About Agonizing
Over This Question, But Do What The General Says (AKA "shoot and
weep"). It's an old (my apologies) Fascist trick. Raise a genuinely
important, painful issue, then sooth the pain with a quick, unambiguous
appeal to both duty and moral recognition, the split between moral
recognition and action here acts as the ethical seal of approval. Would
we not all like life to be so simple...Sadly there have been other
cases in more recent history where a similarly confident
recommendation, Bear the Pain of Pulling that Trigger with Loyal Pride,
seem to have landed everyone in serious trouble. History may never
repeat itself, but Spielberg is out to prove us wrong.Rating should, perhaps, be, not quite "1" for "awful," but rather "10"
for inducing shock and awe.

******
6 August 2003
4

Whoa, I have just read some of the other reviews and it seems that if you
dont like this film you must be anti-american.Now dont get me wrong, the opening scene was brilliant but to me it
quickly
settled into being just another war movie albeit a well produced and shot
war movie. You know, the good ol' USofA rising up above  insurmountable
odds
to save the day blah blah blah.I just could not accept the basic premise of the film that several men's
lives were to be put at risk for the reasons given, I mean war is war,
stuff
like that happens.Having said that I could accept this scenario happening today, (re Jessica
Ryan) with all the ensuing publicity.I think part of the problem was my expectation. I was expecting a real
anti-war film, one that leaves you thinking, you know, that war is
bad.
This was just another good guys (America), bad guys (Germans) type
film.If you want to see a real, and I mean real anti-war film you must see the
1930 version of "All quiet on the Western front". Ask me the ending of
Private Ryan and in three months I wont be able to tell you, but our High
School teacher made us sit through this when I was about 13/14 and to this
day the final scene still jars me.Go see it, trust me, it will move you more than Ryan.
(look it up on imdb it has scored 8.2 to ryans 8.3)But whats the use, people who gave Private Ryan a 10 will probably be
bored
with it because it is one war film that has little violence in
it
(and it is full of "shudder" Germans).


******
10 March 2016
10
Bookended by the most shocking, searing battle sequences in film
history, Saving Private Ryan is as powerful, devastating, memorable and
moving as movies get. Steven Spielberg's riveting infantryman's-eye-
view of World War II will change the way war movies are perceived.
Hymns to brazen heroism and hung ho guts'n'glory will be impossible,
impertinent even, in its wake. Going far beyond simplistic War Is Hell
platitudes, never before has the fear and flux of fighting been so
vividly realized on celluloid. One of the best movies. Please watch.
Grew up watching this movie and everyone thinks it is the best because
it is. Needs to be rated higher on the scale of top 250 movies of all
time.

******
23 February 2016
10
Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan" is a film that is illustrated
with such magnificent detail that it helps grasp your attention right
from the beginning and doesn't let go until the credits start to roll.
The hard work and dedication put in by the director, cinematographer,
and actors in this film will make you leave the theater completely
enthralled with tear-stained cheeks and puffy eyes. This film is set
during World War II, particularly the Invasion of Normandy. As four
brothers of the Ryan family enter the war their mother receives the
news that three of them have died right at the start. Devastated at her
loss, she sends orders to have them find her fourth son. This leads
into the whole mission of the movie which is to find Private First
Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon) and bring him home. Tom Hanks is
known for his work in dramas so it was no surprise that he was the
perfect fit to play the leading role as Captain John H. Miller. He
takes it above and beyond when he allows his voice to tremble and even
get this glassy look in his eye as if he was experiencing war first
hand. He plays the leader that everyone looks to when they are in
desperate need for direction but he also portrays the man whose hands
tremble due to the effect of war which makes him that much more
fascinating to watch. Another character that catches your eye is that
of Private Richard Reiben, played by Edward Burns. Burns' portrays a
new new demeanor never seen by him before as he is not known for his
acting in epic war dramas but comedies. Throughout the film, he is seen
yelling into men's faces and giving off facial expressions that makes
him look arrogant but then becomes soft as he realizes he can't do
anything else to save Captain Miller. Seeing Burns play such a new role
gives him that much more credibility and respect for his acting career. The credit of this film should go not solely to the actors, but to
director Steven Spielberg and cinematographer Janusz Kamiński who
display so many different perspectives and angles that pull the film
together. For example, when they show the death of Captain Miller they
use an angle that shows who shoots him and him getting shot, pulling
together the commotion of war and show his men avenging his death. They
also took real footage from what actually happened during WWII and
copied almost exactly how they saw it. By knowing that you just
witnessed what actually happened in history makes the film that much
more alluring than it already is. Considering the film starts off with
a very graphic 27-minute battle scene at Omaha Beach, it sets the
expectation that the rest of the movie would not be a waste of one's
time. The reality of the film is one that needs to be rewarded due to
the accuracy of the little details. Some of these details are the boats
that replicated the ones used during WWII, the blood they used to
completely engulf the water, and the scene which shows soldiers trying
to find their severed limbs. Spielberg did not sugarcoat the harsh
realities of war but instead used it to capture the audience's
attention. Spielberg has definitely outdone himself in this film. It
teaches one about American history but also one about honor and
sacrifice. Through the agony and the loss, it is a film that will be
shown to people for centuries to come.

******
21 February 2016
10
Let me start off by saying that everything you would ever see in 10
other war movies is shown in this movie in just the first 30 minutes.
The amount of realism portrayed is unmatched. Starting with the
seasickness you'd experience after traveling through the English
Channel while sitting in a tightly compact boat, the tone immediately
shifts to the desperation of survival in the battlefield, and the
unlikeliness of making it out alive (with the body count stretching
over 100 before this scene was over), complete with the pain, anguish,
horror and loss (of limbs and sanity) all while showing the most
accurate representation of a World War II era invasion ever put on
film. Then it moves on to a deep character study of the individual
squad trying to accomplish a single and very simple mission. Despite
all wearing the same clothing, these characters are distinguished and
relatable, with each character having their own mindset and opinions,
some even talking about their past histories. These are human beings
that you come to care about. You feel like you're part of the squad;
you laugh when they're having fun and you feel the same stress that
they feel when something's about to go wrong. By the time the movie's
over, you really felt like you went through a war. From the visceral
landings that introduced you to what the battlefield is like, to
traveling with your fellow soldiers through the French countryside,
always on your feet expecting to run into the enemy at any moment, to
desperately attempting to complete your mission and win. If there was
any war movie that anyone should see, it's this one.

******
21 February 2016
10
There aren't many film directors as influential and recognizable as
Steven Spielberg. He is mostly known for his fun films for almost all
ages. Yet, one of his most acclaimed works to date is called one of the
most violent, most realistic and grittiest depictions of war in cinema
history. This is one of Spielberg's greatest movies.The film is set in the Normandy during World War II. Three of the four
brothers named Ryan have fallen in battle. The military decides it is
the best to escort the last brother, James Ryan (played by Matt Damon)
back home, so that his family wouldn't lose all of their sons. Captain
Miller (played by Tom Hanks) is told to guide a group of soldiers
(including actors such as Vin Diesel, Barry Pepper and Jeremy Davis
among others) to find Ryan.The acting in Saving Private Ryan is very amazing. Tom Hanks is, as
always, the master of his doings, but we have seen better roles by Tom
Hanks a few times. Although he functions more like a McGuffin than an
actual character, and has not so much screen time, Matt Damon has one
of his best performances ever. The supporting actors Barry Pepper and
Jeremy Davis do their job very well too.The cinematography in this films is among the best I have ever seen. In
some scenes, like the famous Omaha Beach scene, at the beginning of the
movie, the camera is very shaky. This adds to the tension of the scene.
The visual style is very realistically brutal, as claimed by many
historians and survivors of the D-Day battle.Saving Private Ryan is one of the best, if not the best, war movies
ever made. Cinematography is flawless, acting is amazing and it is one
of these films that truly show how terrible war actually is. This is a
very depressing movie, but it also has some uplifting and even funny
moments (like when Corporal Upham trips over the typewriter). To sum it
up: this is about how far you can get from a movie being "furbar".
10/10

******
10 February 2016
10
Recently I decided to watch again "Saving Private Ryan" with an
intention to describe its general sense within couple paragraphs as a
small review. But as soon as I've done it, I realized that my review
cannot be as small as I intentionally planned.I would start with the main statement: this is the most massive movie
about war I've ever seen. Notwithstanding it is a little bit too
American, in my opinion. The movie impresses with its uncovered
realism. Steven Spielberg, thrashing over his battle scenes, tried to
make them be more like a news-reel from a battlefront. The close-ups,
full of dynamics; a scenery detailed elaboration; a meticulous filling
scenes with sound and colour: all these not just impress but stun and
literally injure viewer's mind.The key episode of the first half of the movie is a landing attack on a
beach of Normandy. In a first moment as hatches of troop- carrying
vessels are open first rows of soldiers are sweeping away by stormly
fire of large-calibre rifles. Others (with the imaginary camera- man)
start to jump over from both boards of the boat. Several time we are
drawn down and up again; as water cover us all sounds are being so
muttered and meaningless and we feel ourselves almost safe. But then
bullets starts to stitch the water body over and over. And the water
turns red... Oh, I shouldn't try to retell what has been already
geniusly filmed. These couple of minutes leave viewer completely
breathless. And you believe in what you see from start to finish.And then the battle begins. No, I'm wrong, not the battle but
slaughtery. It is shocking. The death is shown with all of its
uncovered might. When I meet somewhere in a text or in TV a phrase like
"he went through hell at that war", even it's not about WW2, but I
remain this battle scene from this movie to help my mind understand the
phrase better.Stephen Spielberg said about battle scenes of the movie that he wanted
to represent them in a way to diminish tendency of violence
embellishment.The cast is good, very good. Tom Hanks is a great actor and this is his
greatest role, in my opinion. Yes, he is playing again his "mr. Good
Guy" cliché, but it doesn't matter. Sincerely speaking, I do not much
like American mentality, which shows most vividly in American stories
about war, about American soldiers. And that's why I like Tom Hanks
here: he made an image of Cpt. James Miller very close too my idea of
what an officer should be. He could play a soviet officer for that
story as well; there wouldn't be any dissonance at all. I like image he
made very much.Once again: set design is amazing. You never doubt that this is a war
in front of you, not for a moment. The war is every small detail: in
every stone, in every building, in everywhere.But the storyline is not complicated at all. It's not bad, because it
is so marvelously represented; even typical American messages in the
beginning and in the end are not worsen my general feeling about the
movie. I think these messages are even controversial to all other parts
of the movie.My rate: 10/10

******
10 February 2016
3
In the aftermath of D-Day, Tom Hanks and his platoon of soldiers are
sent off on a glorified PR-mission into harm's way to "rescue" and
bring home the last surviving member of the Ryan family.Steven Spielberg can be a truly great director, but Saving Private Ryan
is an increasingly tiresome and nearly unwatchable trudge through war
movie clichés. After the harrowing opening recreation, the film slides
inexorably downhill into a rut from which it never emerges. For all of
the heralding by critics and fans of what a great film this is, it is
predictable, mind-numbing and finally butt-numbing.A minor history lesson. While it is true that in events where an entire
generation of a family enlisted and all but one died, there were
efforts to extract and return the soldier in question home. However,
extraction often meant waiting for the soldier or his commanding
officer(s) to be in contact and then make appropriate arrangements for
said soldier to be removed as soon as possible. Try as I might, I can
find no historic evidence that documents what happens in this film, in
that an entire platoon of men are placed in constant life-threatening
situations in order to extract a single private for a glorified PR
stunt.Spielberg often has problems with conclusions, especially in his more
serious endeavors. That is definitely the case here, which features a
wraparound, which opens at Arlington Cemetery with the aged Ryan and
concludes there as well. The entire segment is badly directed and
heavy-handed.The script itself is almost ridiculously slight, particularly for a
near 3-hour running time. The men in the platoon are all marching
clichés reduced to types seen in a thousand other (and in many cases
much better) war films. Each actor pretty much fastens in on one
character trait and allows that to suffice for a performance. Hanks
fares best as the everyman leader and Tom Sizemore is adequate as the
second-in-command, but they have given very similar performances
elsewhere. Worst performances come from Jeremy Davies, who overacts
hysterically in the final third, and Edward Burns, who somehow manages
to make his character supremely unlikable.For the duration of the film, it hits the same tedious notes. The men
trod through the ugly war zone, one of them confides something personal
and is then subsequently obliterated in an often painfully protracted
geyser of gore. The platoon's slog resumes, someone else confides a
personal story and then said person is annihilated shortly thereafter.
Over and over again and again...until a handful remain to find their
quarry. Given that their losses do not endear the survivors to their
quarry, it comes as no surprise when they finally face Private Ryan
(solidly played by Matt Damon), who is such a congenial, aw-shucks,
Middle American nice guy, that not only are the surviving men
immediately charmed by him, but when Ryan refuses to leave his post,
our survivors defy their orders to extract him immediately and stand by
him in the chaotic final onslaught.There is pretty much nothing in the way of surprise in the film and
everything unfolds in a slow and tortuously predictable fashion. About
the only surprise is how needlessly and relentlessly brutal Spielberg
is with the violence. After the opening moments of horrific carnage, I
think everyone gets the whole "war is hell" scenario. Unfortunately,
Spielberg never ratchets back the violence - releasing free-flowing
blood, gore and body parts at the camera.Worse, the film is incredibly ugly to look at. Many WW2 veterans
recount the beauty of Europe during their service, yet the entire color
palette of this film consists of mud brown, bleak greys and depressing
blues (and of course dark red blood). Spielberg also over-utilizes the
now too common place Shake-cam 4000, in which the camera jitters all
over the place like its got palsy or is afflicted by St. Vitus's Dance,
which I gather is supposed to provide a "you are there" authenticity,
but instead generates motion sickness, migraines and frustration.A really tiresome and criminally overrated viewing experience. By the
climax, when the elderly Ryan questions whether it was all worth it,
you may well find yourself responding negatively.

******
11 January 2016
9
Saving Pvt. Ryan is a war movie taken place during World War II, most
notably during D-Day. Tom Hanks and Edward Burns star in this gritty,
and war movie. Warning this movie isn't for the faint of heart. and
those who have PTSD, this movie isn't recommended for you. non stop
action war violence, and brief but strong language. like all movies it
has its problems but not bad enough that it affects the movie badly.
Its one heck of a movie and it was a pleasure seeing it. Cons: Barley
any, lot of lens flares that are kinda distracting but that's all.
Pros: good war movie, gory, a must for all of you gore-hounds out
there. tug at your heart strings and it'll make you realize why war is
hell.

******
19 December 2015
8
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of those movies that you can watch with
regular intervals of time, and even if you've seen it multiple times
and am familiar with the storyline, the movie is solid enough to be
watched over and over, and keeps on being entertaining.The story, quickly summarized, is about a small squad of soldiers
during the 2nd World War who are given a mission to find private Ryan
in war-torn Europe after having survived the D-Day onslaught at Omaha
Beach.What makes "Saving Private Ryan" good, is a combination of multiple
things. First, of course, is the storyline. But also the way it is
filmed, which puts the audience right in the midst of the action. Most
importantly, though, is the more than impressive cast who perform above
and beyond the call of duty so to speak, no pun intended.The action is formidable and impressive, showing that war is brutal and
bloody. And it is presented in a very realistic manner, again adding to
the conviction of the entire movie.The cast list for "Saving Private Ryan" was impressive. And there is a
number of actors who really prove their acting talents and break out of
the stereotypical roles and genres they tend to cling to. Tom Hanks, of
course, is the center of the movie and he fitted so well into the role
and the movie. Usually I am not particularly fond of Tom Sizemore, but
he was perfect for this movie and did a great job. Ted Danson was a
breath of fresh air, and he was a great addition to the movie, as were
Paul Giamatti. Barry Pepper was phenomenal in his role and brought a
good amount of flavor to the movie. However, for me, it was Jeremy
Davies who was the most outstanding of all in the movie, proving once
again what a phenomenal character actor he is.And it is always a plus when Germans actually do speak German in a
World War 2 movie, and not have those awful German accents added when
they in fact are speaking English."Saving Private Ryan" is a movie experience that everyone should have,
at least once. It is an impressive and very entertaining movie to say
the least.

******
11 December 2015
9
Director Steven Spielberg yet again brings together an all-star cast to
create an influential war film. Saving Private Ryan tells the story of
eight men who set out to find Private Ryan, played by Matt Damon, as
his three brothers were killed in action. Their goal, is to find
Private Ryan and send him home to his mother as he is her only child
still living. The movie, set during WWII, shows not only the hardships
of war but also what men are willing to go through to bring a fellow
soldier home. These eight men, led by Captain Miller who is played by
Tom Hanks must travel into enemy territory to retrieve Private Ryan and
in doing so find themselves fighting for their own lives to do so. While the theme of the film is war, Spielberg directed his cast in a
portrayal of courage. Showing what great lengths men will go through in
such a troubling time. Courage could be referenced as part of the plot
of this film but it can be argued that you can't have a film with war
as the theme and not have this be a subsequent role in the film.
Another element of this film would be the loss of life or disregard for
life. In the film, soldiers are seen killing German soldiers who are
attempting to surrender. This again relates to the main theme of war
but also that in which life has no real value.Lighting was impactful for this film and appeared to be natural
lighting but seemed to be duller than what would be expected. This
brought out the element of drama and while being a typical dramatic
effect, gave a real sense of mood in most of the film. Like most war
films, a depressing mood is given off and with this type of lighting,
it really made this feeling come true for me as a viewer. Character
costume was also an important element in this film. Not only was there
uniformity between officer and enlisted, you could also get a feeling
for who was in the fight and who may have just arrived. Most men looked
haggard and beaten down and without needing to look at their
expression, you could understand this through their appearance. Men's
uniforms were dirty or blood stained while men at a base would have
what almost appeared as new fatigues as they had not left the safety of
the base. These different elements added to the cinematic effect and
helped in portraying such an exhilarating film.While some may describe this as just another war film, Spielberg,
Hanks, and Tom Sizemore together made this a classic. War films
generally follow the action and Saving Private Ryan turned the focus to
courage rather than just victory. A must see film from an all-star
cast.

******
8 December 2015
10
This was just a fantastic movie. That opening half an hour with the
allied invasion of Normandy is like nothing I've ever seen before,
unflinchingly gritty, violent, bloody, loud, horrific and brutal. I was
actually watching it on the treadmill and had to stop because I was
gasping and then sobbing. Probably one of the most realistic portrayals
of the horrors of war ever made. This was in your face throughout and
doesn't glorify or lie about combat.The movie itself I would have to say is a bit of a masterpiece with
amazing attention to detail and Steven Spielberg deservingly winning an
Oscar for his stunning war drama. The story follows a squad of US army
soldiers on a mission to rescue a GI trapped behind enemy lines in
France on D-day after all 3 of this brothers are killed in action.Excellent performances all round but especially from (Tom Hanks) as
Capt. Miller leading his men on their perilous mission to locate that
one man, Pvt. Ryan (Matt Damon), a paratrooper who's somewhere behind
German lines. I also really enjoyed Tom Sizemore.This movie has so many familiar faces attached and it was interesting
(and even fun) seeing all the different actors showing up along the way
in the search for Ryan including Adam Goldberg, Barry Pepper, Bryan
Cranston, Dennis Farina, Edward Burns, Giovanni Ribisi, Nathan Fillion,
Paul Giamatti, Vin Diesel, Ryan Hurst. 11/11/15

******
5 December 2015
5
Truly this film will have many effects upon anyone who views this film,
whether the effect will be negative or positive can not be certain. It
may be of truth that anyone who views this movies will be altered in
some way. But I shall give you a warning, many will find the film to be
incredibly realistic and consequently difficult to watch.So, one of the great debates that seem to come from this film is
justification of the extreme violence. And anyone one who spends their
time watching this film should really consider the question; can Saving
Private Ryan's portrayal of an important chapter in our history and
darkest periods of history known to humanity, in its most startling,
graphic depiction be considered a positive for this movie?Yes, I do agree with many that believe that Saving Private Ryan is a
spirit wrenching, and soul disturbing realistic depiction of what those
who have scarifies their very lives that have been given to them to
faced humanities darkest moments. But is that really a reason for
viewers to be ashamed of, rather than appalled at the movie's real life
depictions of such dark times? This film truly shows us the harsh reality of war without pulling any
punches and this is what many people use for their case to defend such
a film. They believe that such portrayal adds more positive leverage
towards the tone of seriousness of the subject matter before us. Saving
Private Ryan may have a morality tale underscoring its horror of armed
combats, but it accomplishes the very mission that it seeks
brilliantly. It reveres the ultimate sacrifice made by young soldiers
who paid with their lives for our freedom. It brings upon the viewer
great respect. But in conclusion, No matter what this film brings to the table for us,
I strongly believe that young children should never view these
atrocities, these great horrors. There simply can be no justification
for that type of audience. As for teens, parents must weigh the
significant negativesextreme violence at the forefront, and not to
mention foul language and sensuality before letting youth or even
themselves enter the battlefields of Saving Private Ryan.

******
24 November 2015
9
I hated this movie at first - the very beginning is maybe 20-30 minutes
of horrific violence (yes - it really happened, of course I saw that,
I'd just always seen that as gratuitous). I couldn't stand to watch it.I see now why it was necessary (though I often chicken out and try not
to watch) - it's absolutely a part of the movie that's supposed to be
there - every drop of blood.One thing that made my heart jump a little was a quote from a favorite
poem - keep an ear out for "Charge of the Light Brigade", if you like
it.Spoiler - yet so much meaning in life itself, especially today's
fighting - one line I think should really be shot to the top of
everyone's head out of anything any other character says. It just
grabbed me. After a harrowing search to find Private Ryan, and what
these men went through to get him to safety - as Tom Hanks's character
is eventually dying as a direct result of the search to save this young
soldier, his last words are to him - "Earn this"

******
22 November 2015
10
Tom Hanks, Vin Diesel and Matt Damon star in this War Epic directed by
Steven Spielberg. The story follows a group of soldiers who are risking
their lives to save "Private Ryan", whose 3 other brothers have been
killed. Steven Spielberg doesn't cut any corners or hide the truth. As
in the opening Normandy Landing Scene, he shows the brutality as it is.
The Film really emphasizes the Horror of War, and how risking your life
for another is an honorable and rewarding thing. Tom Hanks helps boost
the film to a high, with a stunning and scarily realistic performance
as Captain John Miller. The supporting cast, like Matt Damon, are also
awesome and help the film reach its fullest potential.The film is truly one of, if not the best World War II films ever made,
and will surely stay a gem in cinema now and into the future.

******
17 October 2015
8
I agree with almost everybody on this one: this is definitely a very
good film. The first part is excellent and is almost certainly destined
to become part of cinematic history. The original music score and the
special effects are uniformly excellent and the cinematography very
good.Having said all the above however, I did also find some faults (albeit
small) hence the rating of (only) 8/10. Let's try to explore some
briefly: I think the story was a bit lacking, slightly oversimplified.
More in- depth characterization would have improved the movie in my
opinion. Apart from this, I also think (and i am well aware that most
will disagree with me here) that Tom Hanks was completely miscast here.
To me (even though he is undoubtedly a great actor), he never even
remotely resembles the tough, no-nonsense, war hero he is supposed to
be playing. Just think of John Wayne in a very similar role in 'The
Longest Day' and you will probably see what I mean.Havind said the above though, this is and remains an excellent film.
Spielberg has done it again!

******
12 October 2015
10
It's actually pretty sad for me, as Russian, to accept that it's
America that made the best movie about WWII, but not us. But eventually
it doesn't even matter. The main thing is - they managed to present the
most plausible film regarding this topic, the one which dispels the
myth of war's romanticism and actually shows the horrible truth about
the war - terrible death, blaring perishing fear, hopelessness,
despair, inexpressible brutality. The landing scene, from my point of
view, is the paragon of presenting a battle experience. Blood runs cold
whilst watching that scene. Generally the whole movie is watched in one
breath. Yeah, one could say that the plot is a bit flimsy, but it's
perfectly compensated by incredible battle scenes. It is also
impossible not to mention the amazing cast. The personalities of
characters are unfolded spectacularly. If you're into war movies you'll
probably dive into the story and live through it together with the
squad. And this is exactly what really terrific about cinematography.
So in this way, if you haven't watched this movie yet you should
definitely do it ASAP. I bet it would be one of the most breathtaking
film experience you've ever had.

******
22 March 2012
6
"Saving Private Ryan" is certainly a good film, and a major technical
achievement, but it is little more than that.After the stunning first twenty minutes the movie begins to falter. The
storyline seems to be based in asking the question 'What is the value
of one life?' The characters struggle with risking all of their own
lives to save just one. Is duty and honor important enough to die for?
What if Ryan turns out to be a complete degenerate? It is a pretty
heady, and ultimately unanswerable question. Yet with the modern bits
tacked on the beginning and end of the film, Spielberg answers the
question for us. This is pure schmaltz made to get one last tug on the
heart strings. It cheapens the film. When Hanks admits to being a
schoolteacher back home it is the worst kind of melodrama. When the
soldier does his bit in the church about missing his mother we somehow
know he'll be dead in ten minutes. When they release the German soldier
we somehow know we'll see him again. How many clichés and obvious plot
devices can one throw into a 'realistic' movie? How about the celebrity
cameos that feed a director's ego,but serve only to distract the
audience from the film (Hey! Isn't that Ted Danson?) For the most part
it is completely overblown, gratuitous melodrama. It isn't even the
best war movie ever made, much less the best movie ever. It's worth the
three hours, but not much more.

******
23 July 2011
7
Now i know people are going to just despise me for saying this movie
was not spielbergs best. Don't get me wrong, i love spielbergs work and
i love tom hanks and matt damon but this movie although beautifully
shot and with some of the most intense action sequences ever portrayed
in a movie i feel as though the characters lost me. They did not grip
my interest i did not care of them as i normally do in a movie such as
this. I felt myself not caring when characters were killed which really
disappointed me. Spielberg tries to make you care for them by overly
long scenes in which they talk about their past i however found these
scenes boring and had didn't have me caring any more. This movie is about a squad in world war 2 that is sent to save a man
who had lost all his 3 brothers in the war. Since he was the only son
left in his family the government made a decision to send a group of
men to go save the last remaining son (Damon) of course on the way they
lose men and face trials of humanity.Even though what i said above i still highly recommend this movie to
everyone. Its just that i have such high expectations from spielberg
and hanks so in my opinion it was kind of a let down though i may be
the only person on earth who thinks so. So by all means go watch this
one friends

******
25 May 2011
7
I spent the better part of this movie in awe, thinking this was the
best war movie I'd ever seen. There are no heroes or villains on both
sides. Just poor men trying to stay alive.The Americans have faces, the enemies have faces. Compare this to a
movie like Top Gun for example: You never see the enemies' faces.
Therefore they must be evil, right? The whole idea collapsed like a house of cards at the end. Suddenly the
Americans turned to heroes and the enemies turned to villains. I still
don't understand why they did that.This movie could have been great. The way it is - it's merely good.

******
17 March 2009
9
This movie is incredible. It is dramatic, intense and inspirational.
With great music and a great cast the story of a squads journey to save
pvt. James Francis Ryan's life is truly inspirational. It is very
realistic which at times simply becomes hard to bear. I like bears. Im
sorry about this review because I have to write it for a class so i
think ill just chug through my lines with random writing like tom hanks
chugs through German after German while dodging bullets like Jacky
Chan. This element makes the movie slightly unrealistic at times. It is
also has some other neat elements like a bad-ass sniper and some kick
ass scenes. This movie truly does show the gruesome affects that war
has on soldiers in battle but not so much the aftermath and the
symptoms of post dramatic stress. So what do you think is the best type
of bear? I think the coolest ones are polar bears but they are
certainly not the best. In conclusion this is a must see for war movie
lovers and people who like tom hanks.

******
17 March 2009
9
Saving Private Ryan was a great, yet tragic war story. It truly
captured the life and times of World War II. This movie allows the
viewer to see how soldiers thought and acted in World War II. It showed
that most soldiers will sacrifice their own life in order to save
others. The actual fighting of the war was extremely impressive, in
that that era was captured beautifully and the director did a great
job. The opening battle that took place in Normandy was, by far, the
most impressive war scene I have seen in any movie. The great, yet
graphic fighting depicted the brutal war and allowed for the viewer to
imagine what the war would have been like if they were to have fought
in it.

******
13 November 2008
9
Although I have had this film's DVD for a few years now, I had never
been intrigued by war films and always thought of them as preachy
propaganda in one way or the other. But I happened to stumble across
"Saving Private Ryan" as our class was doing a WWII project, and so
decided to watch it. Although maybe it was preachy (somewhat) and yet
still not extremely historically accurate (I should know, considering
that I watched it for a history project), one thing that I could not
deny with an open mind is that Saving Private Ryan is epic film-making
at its finest.As far as the story is concerned, I won't go too deep into historical
accuracy, but as long as the important things are set straight and the
story makes sense on its own, I'm happy with it. That being said, there
should have been more effort put into showing how other Allied nations
besides America contributed to the war, at least during the beach
landing sequence. This is my biggest gripe with the story, and even
then it's a fairly minor gripe.Some more background on the war would have also helped a lot to lend
that extra authenticity edge to the movie, but the lack of it doesn't
come down hard at all since most of us know it anyways. Aside from
that, the story is fairly straightforward, which is good, since most of
it is packed with great, amazingly cinematographed action sequences,
and even better, the high-impact action is nicely balanced out by a few
tender moments  making Saving Private Ryan more than just a war-themed
action film.However, the whole mission of 'saving Private Ryan'  for which our
heroes risk their lives  should've been justified more deeply, with
more than just an Abraham Lincoln speech. And another thing that
could've cleared up many misconceptions was the movie's name; Pvt.
Ryan, despite being talked about throughout the movie, appears for like
15 minutes on screen, and even then has very little character
development. Heck, the movie's tagline would've made for a more
suitable title ("The Mission is A Man"). In fact, Pvt. Ryan is almost
relegated to a minor character when it comes to screenplay, as the
movie centers almost entirely around Tom Hanks' Capt. John Miller, who
is also the most fleshed-out character in the movie  perhaps the only
one, in fact, but considering the movie's runtime, focusing on a few
characters is a good thing.Like most others', my favorite scene from the movie was the Normandy
beach landing at the beginning, which is one of the most intense
sequences I've ever seen in a movie. If there is one vital thing that
this scene would be incomplete without, it is the cinematography  the
shaky hand-held camera-work wonderfully evokes the feeling that the
viewer is seeing the whole thing through the eyes of one of the
soldiers fighting on the beach, and it leaves a very strong impression.
There are also dramatic depictions of shell shock and tons of realistic
hardcore gore, none of which feels gratuitous in context of the overall
turbulence of the entire sequence. The sound is just as good, as
gunshots and machine-gun fire booms loud and clear amidst frantic last
cries, groans and screaming of soldiers.The cinematography, production design and acting are top-notch all
across the board throughout the movie. Tom Hanks' performance is
particularly moving and resonant. The cinematography is greatly helped
by the 'handy-cam' style of camera-work and use of appropriately
grayish color palettes. When it comes to the production design,
destroyed villages and pastures look like they should, with dead
rotting cows and all, while the piles of garbage that are found in
abundance throughout the movie are also meticulously detailed, complete
with chunks of 1940s-looking weaponry sticking out of them.All in all, Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war propaganda films
ever made, if not the best (and I mean it positively)  but my dilemma
was right, it is still a propaganda film because according to this
movie all Nazis are one-dimensional, motiveless and spineless, but
considering how good the movie already is with its current premise, I
couldn't really ask for more. And besides, with a famously Jewish
director, what else can you ask for? Regardless, Saving Private Ryan is
without doubt among the finest movies in its dimension and in its
genre. RATING: 9/10.

******
26 December 2003
8

An excellent film. The acting is superb, the history is accurate, the
action
is intense, the characters are sympathetic. My only complaints- which are
minor ones- are that the film is too long and the pace is a bit too slow.
Other than that, it's vintage Spielberg and a masterpiece.

******
14 December 2003
7

Tom Hanks did a superb job in portraying the poor hapless fellow charged
with "saving private Ryan."  Only to be killed in the end.  Many scenes of
war fighting with all one expects, such as enemy snippers, machine gun nests
and mine fields.  The enemy soldier Hanks benevolently lets go in one such
scene is one who helps to kill him in the end. Private Ryan, played by Matt
Damon, only coming into play in the latter part of the movie, to me some
what of an anticlimax, is insistent he doesn't want to be rescued, but
chooses to fight to the end; of the movie that is. Admittedly this movie is
about the character played by Hanks, with Damon as an after thought.  The
Pvt. Ryan character could of just as easily been played by a trained
chimpanzee for what it added to the overall movie. While I liked the overall
movie, I was noticeable disappointed by the Pvt. Ryan character.

******
30 October 2003
8
As I walked into this movie with my friends, I had Popcorn and Cola and
we were laughing and chatting. As I walked out, the Popcorn and Cola
were still full and we were silent. I couldn't eat or drink anything
because the first half an hour of this movie was so intense, I was just
staring with my mouth wide opened.Its a great idea to take a Movie completely from "first person view".
This gets you practically into the Scene like you were one of the
Soldiers. The hissing sounds of the Bullets, the quietness under water
and the faces of the soldiers desperate and full of fear. Definitely no
Rambo in this one.Call me a Sissy but you get at least a glimpse of what Hell War must
be. Just the first half hour makes this one, one of the best anti-War
movies ever.

******
9 August 2003
8

I had put off watching this film because I'd heard it was so bloody and I
wasn't sure I wanted to see it.  Well, it lived up to its billing.  The
scenes of war look very realistic and it's a shocking experience to
watch.I enjoyed the film, but not as much as Spielberg's other WWII film,
"Schindler's List."  I suppose it's because of the comparative lack of
drama.  Tom Hanks is a terrific actor but his character doesn't draw you in
like Liam Neeson's did.  I didn't relate to the people in "Saving Private
Ryan" the way I did in "Schindler."  It's probably not a fair comparison to
make, but that was my reaction anyway.The premise bothered me a little bit too.  Sure, saving the lone remaining
child of a family is important, but did it make sense to send a company of
men out during the days right after the landing at Normandy to save one
person?  Things were chaotic then and success wasn't assured by any means,
and I think the military's focus would have been elsewhere.  I don't know
what the real circumstances were that the film was based on, but the
director did make the mission seem worthy by having the men defend a vital
bridge from the Germans after they caught up with Ryan. It's a complicated subject, war, and while this movie is very good, I'm not
sure I agree with the focus of this film as a way of portraying patriotism. 


******
12 June 2003
10

I saw Saving Private Ryan back in '98 when it was released in theaters.  I
remember sitting there almost in tears ten minutes into the movie!  It
does
not feel like a movie at all.  It feels like a war!  The camera men and
the
sound crew deserve as much credit as Speilberg or Hanks for making the
movie
come to life.  I say this is one of the best movies ever because almost
every other war movie glorifies war and destruction whereas this movie
would
dissuade anyone from wanting to go to war.  If you have not seen this, you
have not seen a war movie yet.

******
25 May 2003
10

[Being told he can go home.]
Private Ryan: Hell, these guys deserve to go home as much as I do.
They've
fought just as hard.Captain John Miller: Is that what I'm supposed to tell your mother when
she
gets another folded American flag?Private Ryan: You can tell her that when you found me, I was with the
only
brothers I had left. And that there was no way I was deserting them. I
think
she'd understand that.

******
20 May 2003
10

Realizing that men (boys) actually lived and died in the events portrayed
in
this film certainly makes one appreciate even more the sacrifice made by
those very brave individuals.Tom Hanks and all the cast played very real characters which the movie
viewer could develop an emotional bond with.

******
29 March 2003
9

No doubt this movie is great. Steven Spielberg directs this movie
masterfully, absolutely flawless. There are good performances from the
entire cast. But my main criticism is why Tom Hanks got an Oscar nomination?
He was good but not worth an Oscar nomination (maybe I should watch the
movie again). Its a great movie but I wonder if people rave about it too
much. Overall, 9 out of 10.

******
23 March 2003
10

What's not to like about this movie?? I especially liked Barry Pepper's
(Jackson's) line: "Give me a clear line of sight of Hitler and you can
pack
your bags fellas, the war's over" haha But on the flipside, what I really
could not stand was that translator guy they had to bring along. His
cowardly acts just made my skin crawl!! Otherwise, an awesome movie
indeed!
I give it 5 out of 5 stars!!

******
19 March 2003
8

This has got to be one of the best war films of all time. Doing justice to
actual events of Omaha beach by accurately representing the landings of June
6th was the thing that clinched my liking of the film - despite it being the
opening 20 minutes. So very many films stray from the truth in order to make
the film more exciting and the visual effects more pronounced, which isn't a
big problem to me, as long as it's tasteful.
Further developments in the film also increased how much i enjoyed the film.
Well filmed action sequences littered with plot development really keep the
film going, however, after the first 2 or 3 times some of the characters can
become dull [Pvt. Melish for example]. 
Typically good acting from Tom Hanks is complimented by good performances
from Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies and even Vin Diesel - in his best role to
date.
Overall a very good film, but don't over watch it.

******
12 March 2003
8

The beginning was shock. Bullets of enemy's machineguns tearing soldiersheads away while they are about to go enter Omaha Beach, the notoriousbeach for US soldiers. The cameraman really lived through all that, I
thought. I 
have seen a quite a bit war films, but the chaotic, inhuman, and horror are
not 
strong words enough to describe the beginning of the movie.Spielberg did a good work, I must say, what comes to describing the actual
war, 
what it's like. Also, following his style, he steers clear from judging
things.
However, soon the movie lose it's tracks. Yet it seems to be historically
accurate 
and it's interesting to watch as a historical epic story, the moral set of
the movie 
starts to taste strange.  Indeed. 
And the composition in the beginning when the old mr.Ryan is squatting on
the 
graveyard, and folks are behind, that composition is VERY Spielberg.That's afterall the best thing in the movie, but also it's the thing what
makes this 
movie feel like a bit unfinished. Also, the movie reminded me too much of"Green Mile" which was a kind of inmature description now that I think of
it.
That's the thing of Spielberg movies, they get everyone inside in the first
sight, 
but soon they abandon the audience, leaving them wander helplessly intochaos of unclear and muddy world or moral questions. Kubrick's world is moreclear in that sense. 
Anyway, good movie, well worth of 8.

******
9 March 2003
10

This movie is about heroes. It's about men who give their lifes for
us.
My grandfather went to the worldwar 2, he was a hero. Are you willing to die
for your country.
My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield,
and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.
I guess the only question remaining is, have you earned
that?
Imagine there's no countries,It isnt hard to do,
Nothing to kill or die for,No religion too,
Imagine all the people living life in peace...
You may say Im a dreamer,but Im not the only one,
I hope some day you'll join us,And the world will live as one.

******
8 March 2003
8

This film is certainly one of the best war films knocking around. The
opening half hour or so is very powerful and definetly one of Spielberg's
finest moments. However it is a bit let down by the usual Spielberg
sentimentality.Overall I enjoyed this film a lot it is basically a very good film but
not a
great one.

******
8 March 2003
10

This is one of the greatest films ever made.  Obviously, there are people
complaining about "sentimentality", "sickening pro-Americanism", etc.
Well,
for those people - I'm anything but a patriot, but I still loved this
film -
it is THE greatest war film ever, and the second best FILM
ever.It's been said, but I will still say it: if you don't like this, fine -
just DON'T BASH IT FOR BEING PRO-AMERICAN WHEN IT IS AN AMERICAN FILM!
Stereotypes?  Whatever - then there are plenty of '40s and '50s movies for
you to make fun of, since they were so one-sided.  This is a film about
soldiers, NOT a crappy all-star extravaganza with big names top-billed for
maybe twenty minutes of screen time and slow battle scenes - "Midway",
"Tora! Tora! Tora!" (extremely overrated IMO), and "The Battle of the
Bulge"
- where half of the movie is the opposing generals planning the battle.
Ah
well.The plot is a bit hackneyed: eight crack US soldiers are sent on a
mission
to rescue Private James Ryan (Matt Damon), who has crashlanded behind
enemy
lines.  The reason?  Because all of his brothers have already been
butchered, and the US Military (in the persona of Chief of Staff George C.
Marshall [Harve Presnell]) decides for public relations reasons to save
him.
The soldiers, led by John Miller (Tom Hanks!), go through a war-scarred
countryside, engaging in a skirmish or two along the way and seeing the
ravages of war up close and personal.Sound corny?Well, it is: but the EXECUTION is perfect.  Yes, the opening and closing
scenes at the Normany Memorial could've been left out without making the
film any worse - but they're a very small part of the experience.The battle scenes and the acting are great - even Vin Diesel, who after
seeing the abomination that is "XXX" I now despise, is good (though he
only
has about fifteen minutes of screen time anyway).  The opening D-Day
fighting features some of the most graphic violence ever put on film, with
"Dr. Strangelove"-esque cinematography.  Let's just say, however, that
after
seeing "We Were Soldiers", "The Wild Bunch", "The Patriot", etc. before
this, I was not shocked by the violence at all.  Even the soldier who had
his guts blown out did not disgust me - I thought it looked like foam
spray.
But it's still a graphic scene.One of the best scenes of the film is the attack on the radar station,
for
more than one reason.  Seven of the US troops (Diesel's character was
killed
by a German sniper in a French town a while back) attack a small German
force.  The battle is not shown, really: instead, we see a brief firefight
with no gore at all through the view of the green interpreter Corporal
Upham
(the superb Jeffrey Davies).  Then one of the grunts, a Private Wade
(Giovanni Rizzi), has been gut shot.  In a heart-rendering scene, his
comrades gather around him and attempt to stop the bleeding before he
dies.
Then, the Americans come across a German soldier (Joerg Sadler), who is
forced to dig a grave for Wade.  Upham pleads for the German's life, while
Miller and his men want to execute him.  The German utters token English
phrases (such as "F*ck Hitler!") in an attempt to have himself spared.
Miller, for whatever reason, decides to let him go.The best battle scene of all, however, is the final confrontation.  Having
finally found Ryan and several men of his patrol, Miller and his men
decide
to join them in the defense of a crucial bridgehead against what would
prove
to be a last-stand.  This battle scene is graphic and moving - no realism
is
spared.  The ending was predictably cop-out, but given how it played out,
I
didn't much care.Ten stars is an award that I give very few films - but Spielberg -
arguably
the greatest filmmaker working today - deserves it with
this.


******
7 March 2003
10

I voted a 1 for this movie. Not because I hated It but because I do not
believe it deserves to be this high on the IMDB Top 250 (#47). At the
Oscars
in '99 many were surprised that this picture lost the best picture award.
Well I was not. But I was very disappointed that Shakespeare in Love did!
The best picture award should either have gone to Elizabeth or to La Vita
É
Bella. Those were the two best pictures of 1998 (at least the best ones
that
were nominated). I thought it would be "La Vita...".
'Ryan' just isn't THAT Good. I mean...I did believe that it would be the
one
with the second most awards because of technical awards like sound, sound
editing, editing and cinematography which it all won. Those were the best
aspects of the film. SAVING PRIVATE RYAN DESERVED THESE AWARDS MORE THAN
ANY
OTHER FILM THAT YEAR because they made the "NORMANDY" SEQUENCE a CLASSIC!
That is also the only reason I felt that Steven Spielberg should have won
the Best Director award. He and Benigi were the only one who created a
classic scene and he won. Either him or Roberto Benigi deserved to
win.
The bad aspects (Tom Hanks and the Screenplay by Robert Rodat) however
ARE
BAD because they just don't work. It's not that he's a bad actor but he
just
does not fit the picture. Neither does Matt Damon by the way...and Ted
Danson? What was he doing in there? (*SPOILER*)Anyway...at The Battle for
the Bridge-sequence when Hanks is dying and he says the line; 'Earn
this...Earn it...' coming out of the mouth of Hanks it just sounds so
CORNY
to me...He was a better actor playing a dying man in PHILADELPHIA. As for
the Screenplay...there's nothing that really sparks interest
so...
Oh yeah another thing...John Williams score should not have even been
nominated. There is just one good piece of music; The Hymn of the fallen.
The rest is just like the REST of the movie. Dreary, boring and above all
uninteresting. It fits the movie but a dreary, boring, uninteresting film
is
not what people want to see. It's NOT worth the nomination...
That's all.

******
5 March 2003
10

Some people may be taken by the fact that this movie is infact one of the
goriest movies of all time. They also may be taken by by the strong
dialogue
or even the severe lack of color. But none of those can mount up to the
over
riding facts that make this a good movie...how so you may ask? well let
me
explain it to you.the plot: this movie has a compeling and original plot based on the real
WW2
story. It involves a stiring try to find a private James Ryan whose 3
other
brothers have died in combat. ! WARNING: after this point there will
be MILD SPOILERS and i STRONGLY RECOMEND YOU DO NOT GO ON IF YOU HAVE NOT
SEEN THIS MOVIE!
They eventually find ryan and have a life or death choice to help him and
his company or move on and let them die.The characters: this has a Semi-all star cast headed up by tom hanks.
they
all develop well in the course of this movie and those who do die are not
lost in vain. they are constantly put to the test in thier task to find
private Ryan.The gore: yes even the gore supports the movie. by not holding back on
any
gore spielburg  was able to put you into the realism of war and bring you
into the movie as if you to were fighting the germans 

******
22 February 2003
7
Captain John Miller: James... I'm here to tell you your brothers were killed
in combat. They're dead. 
Private Ryan: Which one, sir? 
Captain John Miller: All of them.This is the most realistic war film I have ever seen it relay shows the
horror and point less ness of all wars not just world war
II.People say that it is hared to sit though the first hour but I think that if
you don't sit though the first hour you are missing the point. The first
hour is war. War is death blood and murder and the rest of the film is the
aftermath the affect war has on inveigles.Every single member of cast and crew should be commended on the quality of
this film.Ps. I also think that George Bush and Tony Blair should be treated to a
private screening.


******
21 February 2003
9

this movie is amazing. not only is it a great war movie but it is also a
great window on the human psyche. i can say that it's a movie about honor
but it's so much more than that. it's about everything else as well. there
really are no words to explain what this movie is about except that it is a
lesson on honor and...everything else. this is a really bad review but i
would be dumbfounded if an adequate description of the underlying lesson
existed. it's a feeling you get when you watch the movie. it makes you
rethink the rules of war versus basic survival instincts. and war reflects
everything that happens in life. i take that back. war magnifies every human
emotion and human reaction. this movie does a magnificent job at portraying
it. 

******
8 February 2003
6

Best war movie ever made?  Please.  Go watch Full Metal Jacket, Platoon,
Ran, Apocalypse Now, Das Boot, or any other film made by a director with a
true understanding of artistry in film-making.  Spielberg's sycophants make
me sick.Saving Private Ryan is best when Spielberg sticks to what he is actually
good at, to wit, action.  I whole-heartedly admit that the two big battle
scenes are breathtaking.  However, two scenes do not a movie make. 
Everything else was  duller than dull.  No profound insight.  Nothing but
cookie cutter characters, cheesy dialogue, and mindless flag waving.  If
this film was the only source of knowledge about Americans that someone had,
s/he would come away with the conclusion that Americans sure are a bunch of
cornballs.  But we can shoot people pretty adeptly, can't
we?Spielberg, go back to making ET and Raiders of the Lost Ark and save the
heavy stuff for real directors.  That is all.6/10 (the two battle scenes warrant a 6)

******
4 February 2003
10

This was one heck of a war movie! I enjoyed every second of it. Tom Hanks
does a tremendous performance as always. All the characters played a key
role in the movie. One of Vin Diesals first movies too. This movie he could
actually act in though. Barry Pepper plays the sniper who does well enough
to pull off the job but doesnt quite fit the role to convince me enough but
i really liked him in this movie. Giovani Ribisi i feel does the best as the
medic. Ribisi needs more exposure and he could win an Oscar one day. I cant
find a movie which tops this one off. Enemy at the Gates, Black Hawk Down,
Thin Red Line, and even Full Metal Jacket just didnt quite capture my eye
enough to convince me of the reality of war. 

******
1 February 2003
8

From the literally breath taking opening sequence, which immediately became
a standard which newer movies would only try to touch ("Gladiator") to the
brilliant photography and sound, unprecedented cinematic achievements that
Spielberg became very fond of (I think he used the ENR process in "Minority
Report" as well) and the Oscar worthy performances of every single leading
actor. So what exactly is missing, what possible thing makes "Saving Private
Ryan" one of the best and not maybe the best war movie of all time. It's the
final message. I though that just ending the movie with the elderly Ryan,
comforted by the thought that he was indeed a good man who lived his life
the best he could was just to trivial to be inserted in the movie. And of
course Spielberg had to take a long final shot of the American flag, despite
the fact that the movie was almost completely fictional when it came to the
plot. 
But despite these flaws the movie is spectacular and is one of the best
movies of 1998, falling in second place to "The Thin Red Line" which should
have won every Oscar it was nominated for. But then again, loosing to
"Shakespeare In Love" hurts every bit as much.
A visual triumph. War never looked so real and brutal.
8/10

******
22 January 2003
10

I just saw Saving Private Ryan and it knocked me of my feet! Here in Europe
the WO II is still nearby and present: everybody has a grandfather or
another relative that survived the war and told stories about it...Living
and visiting the countries where it all took place, you can still see the
remains of that terrible war, you can still find (old) people who still have
memories and nightmares about it.
I have seen many movies about this war, but not one of them equals this one!
Very realistic, outstanding camera-work and great acting, especially by Tom
Hanks. A true masterpiece worth watching if you have the
oppurtunity.

******
15 November 2002
10

(POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD)I cannot begin to say how much I loved this movie. Probably the most
engrossing plot line of any war movie. I liked the story, especially at
the
end because the end really makes the film what it is, which is amazing.
The
entire point of the movie is summed up in one line: "Tell me I've lived a
good life." Ryan wants to have lived a good life because almost a whole
squad died to bring him home. This is the genius of the movie, because
the
mission is so deadly, just for saving one man.The end battle is brutally violent. One guy gets stabbed slowly through
the
heart, a couple are blown up, and just about everyone else gets shot. The
few that are left at the end are in hysteria. This movie does an
excellent
job of proving just how insane war can be, because they sacrificed so
many
people just to save one.  

******
2 October 2002
10

Nothing in cinema will bring you as close to being "in-the-action" as the
Normandy landing scene in the opening minutes of the film. The realism is
striking and not glitzed-up or shown from too far overhead...as is often
the
case. If there's a man who has spent time in his nations uniform that
wasn't
openly crying at the end of this movie, I've yet to meet him. A true
tribute
to those who have served their country with honor.

******
20 August 2002
8

It's hard to argue Spielberg can't shoot a beautiful picture.  Rarely, if
ever, has a film so accurately portrayed the horrific consequences of
war.That said, despite excellent acting jobs by the cast, the film suffers
from
a frequent Spielberg curse - that of the oh-so-obvious moral theme and the
dreaded "bookends".The scenes of the old man weeping at the end of the film, in my mind,
ruins
its message.  Clearly, after the scene on the bridge where Miller (Hanks)
tells Ryan (Damon), "earn this", we can see all of the evils and horrors
this man has absorbed and will carry for the rest of his life.  It is
unnecessary to see the older Ryan, fifty years later, having proved he
took
his captain's words to heart.Ultimately, it's still a great film - and one that's worth seeing, if not
for all of the actors, who were somewhat unknown at the
time.It is not, however, worth seeing Ted Danson in any way, shape, or form.


******
15 August 2002
9

Saving Private Ryan is a great movie, and in my opinion, the quintessential
war movie. This is a gripping motion picture with superb acting and
exquisite direction. That D-Day scene will undoubtedly go down in history as
one of the greatest movie scenes ever. See this movie.
bye.

******
13 August 2002
10
Spielberg showcases his genious again.  After taking us back to WWII in
Schindler's List and showing us the horrors of the holocaust, Private Ryan
brings us to the horrors of the front lines!  The first 30 minutes of the
film is uncompramising!  The film does not let up as it shows us the
brutalities of war, and in my view, the greatest war scenes EVER!This is my all time favourite film, along with The Silence of the Lambs!
I
have had relatives fight in WWII, and this film just gave me added respect
for what they did for me.......all of us for that matter!  There is one
scene that matches the power of all the war scenes, I'm sure you'll know
what scene I am speaking of!  It has no fighting, no bombs, no
blood!

******
12 August 2002
10

I thought that saving private ryan was a really good film and it should
have
won the best picture oscar. But one thing gets on my nerves with Hollywood
world war 2 movies.For people who didnt know BRITAN AND FRANCE WERE ALSO IN THE WAR AND WON
THE
WAR AGAINST GERMANY WITH AMERICA! America did not do it all alone as many
brits and french soldiers died on the Normandy beaches along with the
Americans. Same as U-571, as the British also got the code machines. Plus
i
just want to say this now- all British people dont speak with a nice posh
accent, in fact about 90% of the population don't! I just want to see a
Hollywood picture with a normal Englishman, not a stupid posh one oh and I
would also like to actually see some Englishmen in World War
movies.Anyway, back to the movie, it is very good. I've actually been to those
places were they are set and I believed that they were actually filmed
there! Acting was superb and as in all Speilberg's films the directing was
top notch.So it was good film but would have been better if the English were
credited
with the beach invation because my Grandad did it and I don't see any
record
on this film (visually) about the risks that the Brits took as well as the
Americans.Overall 9/10.

******
9 August 2002
9

The reason this film is so successful is that it sidesteps the corniness
which can go hand in hand with so many war movies. The characters are
tantalisingly out of reach. Yes, you find out snippets. One of the troop's
recollection of his mother coming home from work, and an anecdote about
Ryan's brothers. But what makes this film special is the way that when
Ryan
asks Captain Miller to elaborate on his wife, Miller simply said that some
things are for him alone. The fact that their lives back home are only
occasionally hinted at actually gives the band of soldiers incredible
dimension.
I do not need to celebrate the awesome battle scenes or the moment when
Edith Piaf sings out of the deserted town before the battle. Others have
done that.
Simply be prepared for an unforgettable experience.

******
18 July 2002
9

Saving Private Ryan was a good movie. It wasn't excellent, but very good. It
was better than the movie which won the Oscar that year. It had some good
history in it. Good history indeed. The only excellent part of this movie is
the D-Day Invasion. It seemed very realistic. It was bloody too. ***and a
half out of ****

******
3 June 2002
9

I first watched this movie in a theater (I have since purchased the video). 
The depiction of the landing on Omaha Beach was easily the most intense
movie experience I have ever had.  The battle in the town near the end of
the movie is probably the second most intense.When the movie ended, there was total and complete silence in the theater. 
It lasted for maybe a minute.  Then I could make out the sounds of patrons
gently getting up out of their seats.  Next I could hear the soft footsteps
as the people began to slowly walk out of the theater.  And I could barely
discern people near me talking in low and seemingly reverent tones.  It was
like everyone in the theater felt that they were in the presence of an
awesome power that demanded, and deserved, the utmost respect.  Never have I
come close to an experience like that.  It was as impressive as the movie
itself.Steven Spielberg is a true genius.

******
2 June 2002
10

This was an excellent, albeit fictional DDay saga which
drew you in by the throat from the opening shot.
Outstanding realism on the beach.
Real war is like this (hell) not like the make believe
fairy tales we were fed decades ago that glorified war.
If you do not weep during this film you need to loosen
up
and check your veins for blood.
Top notch entertainment from the get-go!
Shades of Platoon ;-)

******
1 June 2002
10

This movie is a wonderful depiction of the 2nd world war.  It shows the true
horrors of it.  It shows how sad war could really be.  It also shows the
gruesomeness of it.  Tom hanks and matt Damon shine in this great war movie.
 They should've won awards.  It follows a group of soldiers who have to find
a young man whose three brothers just died.  The whole group of men are
tough as nails and really cool.  The battles are pretty intense and very
gory.Overall the whole movie is really excellent and brought out perfectly. 
Rating 10 out of 10.

******
27 May 2002
9

Saving Private Ryan is one of the best films I have ever seen. The direction
by Steven Spielberg for this film is absolutely brilliant and the
performances by every essential cast member are breathtaking and
unforgettable. Spielberg graphically shows the harsh realities of war and
the brotherhood of every soldier involved. Tom Hank's performance in this
film is a work of art, a brilliant performance by a brilliant actor. The
screenplay is successfully written and provides a hell of a story. It is
because of these key elements that the film is brilliant. It is truly one of
Spielberg's best works. However, the only thing wrong with this film are the
occasional hilarities of the film. They sometimes drag off the importance of
this story and what the director hopes to achieve from this. Other than
that, the film is one of the best films ever made and should have won the
Best Picture of 1998. 

******
6 July 2001
8

The first half hour of this movie is incredible. I watch it in awe. But
after that the film has to rely on the story and characters...it kind of is
a let down. The story is kind of ho hum. I think this file would have been
better if it were structured differently. I think starting off so strong
only made it more difficult to keep the audience interested in it's
characters and story. I think the intent was to grip the audience in the
beginning, and that they'd have no choice but to be involved in the story. I
didn't find this to be the case. I would give this a 11 out of 10 for the
first 30 minutes (it really is the most gut wrenching thing I've ever seen
on film) and a 7 out of 10 for the rest of it.

******
5 July 2001
10
It smells war, it smeels drama and it smeels reality in every corner in
this
film. It's got to be good when Spielberg do it. He does it over and over
again!! And we have Tom in the main role. He fits very good in a war film.
Fabolous job Tom. I was suprised how well he did this role, I thought Tom
belonged to comedy's and romantic drama's but, no Tom is a great soldier,
in
the greatest movie ever made (pr.now. july 2001).

******
4 July 2001
9

finally a good film about d-day since "the longest day". This movie
reflects
the true stress and thoughts of soldiers during a war. Not only the sets
and
locations are right but also the feelings of the soldiers.To make it a short comment, this movie got it all!A.J.

******
25 June 2001
10

I don't know how people could have such awful things to say about this
movie...it is one of the best movies I've ever seen and definately my
favorite. The script was written beautifully and had an interesting plot,
the characters were amazingly well-developed, it was historically
accurate,
and the actors did a great job. Not to mention the great directing job.
this
is a perfect war movie. so what if it has its bloody moments? i honestly
have seen much worse. i would rather watch the D-Day scene a thousand
times
than any stabbing in scream or some other dumb horror movie. the blood and
guts in SPR help tell the story. it is needed to show the realities of
war.
so if u can handle a few minutes of a very REALISTIC Omaha Beach scene,
then
i suggest this movie for anyone.

******
25 June 2001
8

"Saving private Ryan" is the best depiction of war, ever.
Steven Spielberg has shown us once again that he is one
of
the best directors of all time.The writing is ok and the whole film could have been 30
minutes,
but the direction is where this film is so amazing.  The cinematography is
wonderfull (maybe intense is the best word), and Spielberg's
shots
are beyond deserving of best Director.The film is extreamly graphic, bloody and violent, but this is why it is
the
best depiction of war.  The camera doesn't pan away when someone gets
shot,
instead you see full on the horrors of war.If you faint at the sight of blood then don't watch this
movie,
you'll probably have a heart atack.  If you don't faint at the sight of
blood watch this movie, it's amazing!

******
22 June 2001
10

Tom Hanks  is very good in this action thriller about a unit sent to find
one man who has lost 3 members of his family in ww2. It centres round
Private Ryan, and the soldiers sent to get him home in one piece. The
start
of this film is very bloody indeed, but so real you can feel the pain of
the
injuried and dying men. This is one watch again and again.
10/10

******
12 June 2001
5

Aside from the first 15 minutes, where the near disaster on Omaha beach is
effectively portrayed, the rest of the film is a standard John Wayne, 'Sands
of Iwo Jima" type propaganda film made up of the most mundane and
unbelievable tripe.
If the truth be told, the American forces at Omaha would have been pushed
back into the sea except for the British and Canadian forces immediately on
their left flank who achieved ALL their objectives that day and pinned down
the bulk of the Germans forces within their HQ area centred in Caen and thus
prevented them from swinging south and completely obliterating the Omaha
beachhead.
Aside from that historical fact (not referred to in the film), the movie had
other major shortcomings, ie;
- no combat commander in his right mind would risk the lives of a full
patrol to rescue a single, "Private Ryan", no matter what the
reason;
- no platoon leader (played by Tom Hanks) would go into combat with his
officer stripes shining brightly on his helmet. To do so would invite an
immediate sniper bullet from Germans who specifically targeted officers for
priority elimination.
- no platoon leader would insist on attacking an enemy strongpoint
unnecessarily - especially since his orders were to only to "get Private
Ryan". He could have detoured around the strong point but instead chose to
attack it and lose some of his valuable platoon members.
Why?
- Tom Hanks and his heroic defence of the French town which climaxed the
film was frankly unbelievable. The Germans may have been the enemy, but they
were not stupid. In real life, Hanks and his little patrol would have
surrendered or been brushed aside within seconds by a determined German
force backed by tanks.
When, oh when, are the Americans going to produce a realistic war movie
which truthfully captures the events, flavour and outcome of combat reality
without the John Wayne histrionics?   
 

******
2 June 2001
7

Saving Private Ryan is in my opinion just another Yankee war movie, but it
has one fine advantage; it's very realistic. Unlike in most American films,
in this they die like flies, especially in first situation where Americans
are running against machinegun fire.It tells fairly well about madness of total war, and does it very well. But
as story goes further, it starts to look like another action kill 'em all
movie.

******
4 May 2001
10

This a film like no other. Not only does it rise above all other war
movies,
it is among the best movies out there. The battle scenes are simply
unbelievable, and leave you breathless and on the edge of your seat. The
realism is to the point that you actually feel like a participant in the
war. I haven't always liked Spielberg's movies, but when I saw this I was
sold. It has quickly become my favorite movie and contributed to my
fascination with the history of World War II, and with D-Day and the
campaign in Europe particularly. From the opening credits it brings you
right into the invasion at Omaha Beach within a few minutes. This scene is
an unforgettably realistic portrayal of one of the most important days of
this century. It is a true crime that this picture did not win the Academy
Award for Best Picture. I own it on DVD and have watched it over 20 times.
I
can hardly wait for the HBO mini-series "Band of Brothers" based on the
Stephan Ambrose book. 

******
24 April 2001
6

First of all, I'm happy that movies can be made to look like the real
world.
Old warmovies had very poor action flics, BUT! But they had a story!
Remember The Battle of the Bulge? Real suspense, makes you watch and be
excited for the whole two hours.
What does this film have? It makes you go pale and/or throw up after the
first few minutes. You swear not to touch a rifle in your life. And after
30
minutes extreme nothing. No story, no dialogues, no acting. Yes, extremely
poor acting. The whole movie is like a bad TV show: Disturbing Action
Flics,
Nothing But Blood and Guts.
Sure, it is a great success to make a movie that can give you a very
realistic feeling of war, but picture this:
I've read a book written by a doctor about the siege of Budapest in WWII.
That book had bigger effect on me than this poor movie. Just
text.
It takes more than a few flying limbs to make a movie!
Next time if Steven Spielberg directs a movie showing exploding barrels
for
two hours, will it be nominated for best
movie/book/whatsoever???

******
13 April 2001
7

The opening of this movie is one of the best battle scenes I've witnessed in
50 years of movie viewing.  So many appropriate superlatives about this
scene have already been written by other reviewers that I can't add anything
more.Unfortunately, once this scene is over the movie becomes a rather pedestrian
WWII movie--just too predictable and, at times, stretching one's willingness
to "suspend disbelief" to the ultimate and beyond.  It's worth watching, but
the bulk of the movie is just a rehash of cliches from just about every WWII
film made in the 1940's and '50's.Opening scene rates a 10; the rest of the movie a 4; average
7.

******
23 March 2001
8

1st watched 5/31/1999 - 8 out of 10(Dir-Steven Spielberg):
Realistic WWII war story which is well-played by the cast.  Different view
of this war than we've seen without callous-like characters which we are
used to in war films(They actually have feelings!!).


******
3 March 2001
10

The first time I saw this movie, I sat with my eyes wide open. It have
perfect soundeffects, good acting. I cant mention an only negative thing
about this movie. I have seen many warmovies in the last years, and I have
never seen a warmovie thats's this good. This must be one of the best
movies
to Steven Spielberg, since E.T. The movie got a great story about some
people that get a mission to save private Ryan in World War 2. After the
invasion in Normandie they get their mission from some high rank generals.
It is full of action through the hole movie. It wont be a minute where your
bored. It is good from the beginning to the end. If you havent seen it, you
should! Not seeing this movie is a big mestake. Take my advice and see this
huge movie.

******
8 February 2001
9

This is one of the best WW2 action movies made to date a must seeFrom start to finish you are on the edge  of your seat .The movie is as
close as those who were never in combat will come to the real
thing.

******
4 February 2001
7

This movie starts out with one of the most powerful scenes I have ever
seen
on the big screen. The viewer is taken right down to the front line of
soldiers of the D-day invasion of Normandy in 1944. The camera transfers
the
fear and helplessness of a war directly to the audience. It was really a
really strong scene, nearly painful and a must-see.Thus, Saving Private Ryan starts out as one of the greatest war movies
ever.
However, the exaggerated American patriotism and superiority, mixed with
typical Hollywood production soon makes this film just another film about
the heroic American G.I:s.  

******
3 February 2001
10

Many just don't get it.  This is an Anti-War Movie. The plot concerns a group of men sent to do something kind of pointless and
futile in one of the most necessary and important wars of the last 2000
years.  This plot is based partially on a true story, however, the true
story happened during the civil war, not during World War
II.For a wide variety of critics of this movie a copy of "T2" and "Matrix"
would be all they need to keep them cinematically happy for the rest of
their lives.  Do not, I repeat DO NOT go to see this movie or some
"action-adventure."  Go rent "Raiders of the lost ark" or some other
worn-out mind-numbing eye-candy movie.This movie is really different.  It is arguably that ONLY war movie in
HISTORY that is 100% realistic, all the way down to the pacing of the war
iteself.  War consists of periods of ferocious fighting and abject terror
book-ending long periods of introspection and fear.  The closest thing to
this movie is "All Quiet on the Western Front."The musical theme for this movie is also superb - it can be compared
to
the outstanding theme for "Patton".  However, the tone and emphasis of the
movie and the music are the polar opposite of that of "Patton". 

******
28 January 2001
8

Scratch the surface of this excellent war movie and you find the same film
that was made dozens of times in Hollywood during WW II.  There's a bloody
battle (too bloody for me here; despite all the hoopla, suggestion is
often
more powerful than "realism"), there's a gold star mother, there's an
Italian, there's a Jew, there's a kid from Brooklyn, there's the nerd,
there's the officer with a heart of gold, there's the all-knowing top
sarge,... Need I continue?Perhaps most viewers have forgotten how moving those old films were.  Most
of course can't remember them.  To those I say spend 90 minutes in front
of
your TV set the next time one is aired. You'll be surprised by how good
they
were.

******
22 January 2001
8

There are good aspects to this movie - quite strong characterisation, the
most stunningly horrific depiction of war ever, and a sensitive treatment
of
the subject matter.Of course, this is not to say that the subject matter is anything but the
most insulting piece of American historical revisionism to cross our
screens
in years.  Apparently, Tom Hanks is STILL the conversative white all
american hero (he hasn't played any other role in years, which tells you
something about his self image, politics, and ego), the Americans were the
only people involved in World War II, and all american values are the best
thing to fight for.  They ALMOST covered the humanity of the germans...but
no.  They almost mentioned other countries... but no.They ALMOST gave a treatment of war worthy of the first 20 minutes... oh
hang on.  No they didn't.  They sunk into sentimentalism, flag waving, and
Tom being a hero at the price of the story and quality.  Insulting to the
memory of WWII vets from around the world.   

******
16 January 2001
8

Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan is certainly not the best war film
ever made, but one of the much better ones. An amazing look at a platoon
during World War II that is assigned to recover Private James Ryan due to
the loss of his three older brothers. The opening scene with the older Ryan
visiting Arlington Cemetery is very emotional as are several parts in the
film. The D-Day sequence is one of the best war scenes ever in a movie and
despite a few flaws in some of the characters, the cast is good. Steven
Spielberg's direction is fantastic as always and the cinematography is
outstanding. I dislike several of the reviews claiming the movie to be bad
or untruthful. People need to look at it as a great film which shows us an
important piece of history, truthful for the most part. A well-made,
well-executed war film that is my candidate for best picture of
1998.Won 5 Oscars including Best Director and Best Cinematography.****/5

******
9 January 2001
6

Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan was promoted as a terrifyingly realistic war
movie, and it is on this count that it fails. Despite numerous historical
and military inaccuracies, some of the most important parts of the plot have
gaping holes. A great scene is made of the argument over whether to shoot
the captured German soldier, with the argument almost splitting up the
squad. The indiscipline of the Rangers defies belief; as Spielberg is no
doubt unaware, Rangers volunteer twice before they qualify; for Airborne
training and again for Ranger training. Such volunteers have never been
known to row like privates straight out of Basic training. Also, the way Tom
Hanks' character moves his squad behind enemy lines is unbelievable; the
whole squad walks in a close line, weapons on their shoulders, chatting away
happily. Central Europeans are fortunate in that real American troops did
not behave like this.Spielberg's movie is a brave attempt at showing the war from a soldier's
perspective, but he made so many errors that apart from the landing scene,
the movie is unwatchable for anyone versed in military matters. Also, not
being American, I was disgusted by Spielberg's portrayal of German soldiers,
who were all ragged, thin and gaunt. He also passes over the numerous war
crimes U.S. soldiers perpetrate on screen with indifference.Better luck next time; the Thin Red Line was a much better
attempt.

******
5 January 2001
10

Spielberg does it again!  I have always been a fan of his, but this is his
best film.  From the first scene to the last, it kept me spellbound.  I
could hardly believe the time (almost 3 hours) went by so fast.  The cast is
superb, especially Hanks' and Sizemore's roles.  I HIGHLY recommend you see
this film, but I must warn you, the combat scenes are not for the
squeamish.A 10 out of 10!

******
5 January 2001
9

I must say that Saving Private Ryan is one of the most moving and
powerful films that I have ever seen.  I have always tried to look at
WWII veterans with respect; my respect, gratitude, and awe have
increased a million-fold  with this film.

******
3 January 2001
10

Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks have succeeded in creating an excellent
World
War II film that vividly depicts the sights of war, while providing a
story
with a heart.  The character driven story of a band of American soldiers
sent to rescue Private Ryan is powerful and moving, and the performances
by
all involved are impressive to say the least.  Viewing the beach scene at
the beginning of the film moves you to honor and respect the sacrifice
made
by those brave men in WWII.  The music, the camera work and the directing
make this epic a successful film worth watching and keeping in your own
collection!

******
1 January 2001
10

If providing the world with "Schindler's List" wasn't enough, the soon to
be
Steven Spielberg KBE has yet again achieved greatness on film. Although
every critic in the world will praise the cast for superbly acted
performances, you really have to congratulate the crew on an outstanding
contribution to the movie. The sets look incredible, the sound is amazing
and the camera-work is second to none.
Tom Hanks seals in concrete his position as the greatest American actor
of
all time with another beautiful performance. However, the highest praise
of
all has to fall to Steven Spielberg. He is, without a doubt, the Beatles
of
cinema. And, if "Schindler's List" was his "Revolver", then "Saving
Private
Ryan" is his "SGT. Peppers". 

******
24 December 2000
10

Yes,I think that it was the most impressive film I have ever seen and also
it is
so tragic cause a lot of people die for one person.It was so sad for
me.Especially the last part(the bridge)of the film was sad.And John H
Miller's death is very tragic because if he could wait for a minute,maybe
nothing happens to him.Also all of the people acting at the cast are very
successful.I haven't seen a film like this before.

******
22 November 2000
9

I was simply stunned when I saw Saving Private Ryan back in Fall 1998. I
had
very low expectations because the movie title sounded flat, director was
Spielberg, who had not directed any "grunt-level" war movies so far. Also,
Tom Hanks was starring it-I regarded him unsuitable to the role, despite
being versatile actor. But these thoughts quickly vanished from my mind as
landing crafts hit the beach and German MGs began peppering the shoreline.
I
began to feel almost as uncomfortable as the US troops pinned on the
beach,
everything was chaotic, tracer bullets whistling in the air, limbs blown
off
by mortar shells, men dying and screaming in agony, waves colored red with
blood...
Everything in these first 20 minutes or so was done in amazing detail and
accuracy. It forced me to adapt totally different attitude towards the
rest
of the movie: this was war, nothing less or more, just war like it was in
Summer 1944 in bocage hell of Normandy.Captain Miller and his squad's mission is to bring back Private James
Ryan,
whose all brothers are killed in various theaters of war almost at the
same
time and he is now the only surviving son of the Ryan family. Despite this
naive plot setting and some emotional and patriotic overtones (like scene
of
Gen. Marshall referring to Lincoln) they seem irrelevant since the movie
is
all about a squad of Army Rangers, their fighting, suffering and griping
in
Normandy battles. The chaos of war is captured very well with airborne
troops and German units scattered all over Normandy cut out of command and
communications. Sometimes only a wall separates Germans from Americans and
solitary German machine-guns and snipers take their toll even before
Captain
Miller's (Hanks) squad even reaches Private Ryan's unit in a remote
village.
As they finally reach the ruined village, Ryan refuses to leave and Miller
decides to stay also to defend an important bridge.
As the troops wait for a German attack, there are some good scenes like
idle
soldiers killing time talking "grunt talk", but also the worst scene in
the
movie: Matt Damon starts to tell Miller about some "hilarious" events
taking
place with an ugly girl at attic of his homestead's barn. I think this
scene
could have been easily been cut out, now it looks only a clumsy attemp to
bring depth in the Ryan character.The final battle is another longer combat sequence in this movie and it
takes place in the streets of Ramelle. The fighting is again shown in a
realistic manner, but I doubt that the elite German SS would advance the
main street with tanks like in a parade while expecting US resistance. And
at some scenes Germans just seem to run mindlessly towards intense US
machine gun and sniper fire without any cover. There are some macho
scenes,
like sgt. Horvath (Sizemore) and a German running out of ammo and throwing
helmets at each other.  But these issues might only matter to WWII history
buffs (like me) and generally the combat is more realistic and intense
than
anything ever seen on the screen before.At the end of the bloodbath, only two men are left of original Miller's
squad with Miller gasping "Earn this.." with his last breath to Private
Ryan. The very end is a return to the beginning of the movie, with Ryan
shown as an old man making visit to Miller's grave in Normandy. The final
dialogue is between Ryan and his wife, and the scene is a bit
Spielbergishly
over-melodramatic with Ryan asking his wife is he a good man. And he then
makes a military salute to Miller's grave, which I think is a proper end
to
to this great war movie.Overally, this is a classic war movie, perhaps not the greatest of all
time
but at least best of the 90's. The acting is excellent, Tom Hanks making
his
best role so far as emotional, yet tough Captain Miller. Certainly would
have deserved an Oscar for that. Supporting roles are also good, but
perhaps
kind of one dimensional and shadowed by Hank's Milller character. Effects
are equally good, on the special and sound department. The washed colors
work well and add to realism. The general feeling of being there is
captured
very well.**IMPORTANT HISTORICAL NOTE**
*Some British comments here state that there were other nationalities like
British and Canadians in Normandy Invasion. Of course there were, but this
movie is about a squad of men, not the whole vast scope of the Invasion.
If
you are looking for that, watch also "The Longest Day". SPR is by no means
telling that the Americans made Normandy Invasion single-handedly.The scene where Miller and some airborne officer are talking about the
progress of the Invasion and refer to General Montgomery as "Overrated" or
"he can't get through at Caen".
They were just talking about how American GI's really thought during
summer
1944. There WAS a certain amount of friction between western allies and
this
movie is not claiming that British were incompetent-it merely show what
was
thought in those days.*I give "The best war movie of the 90's" a
score of 9.5/10PS. The Thin Red Line, the other big '98 war movie is nothing compared to
this masterpiece. Saving Private Ryan makes you think by just showing what
war really is. The Thin Red Line shows what war really isn't and wants you
to think like director has already thought for you.   

******
19 November 2000
10

I think "Saving Private Ryan" is indeed the greatest War film ever made.
It
shows, in graphic detail and with intense realism the true horror and
senselessness of war.
The fact that this film lost the best picture Oscar to "Shakespeare In
Love"
is a crime and shows just how much a farce these awards shows really
are.

******
19 November 2000
10

While I may be a bit prejudiced on the subject, since I consider myself a
WWII buff, this is by far the greatest movie I have ever seen.  While the
extremely graphic violence is not for the faint of heart it is done with a
frightening degree of accuracy and that is a large part of what makes this
movie truly great.  The fact that it was denied the Best Picture Academy
Award is a crime.Tom Hanks was wonderful as the leader of the small band of men in search
of
a missing paratrooper.  His performance was by no means bad but I
personally
do not believe it was impressive enough to earn him the Oscar.  Or perhaps
to be more fair it was not as impressive as some of the other work done in
the same year.SPR is a blueprint for how to make a truly wonderful what I would call a
"fictional documentary." (based in fact but with a fictional plot
line)The most telling moment for me was the first time I saw this film in the
theater.  When the final scene faded out and the credits rolled there was
total silence.  Not a single person in the packed theater uttered a single
word and for a few moments no one even moved.  Then, slowly, everyone
quietly stood and left.  This is the only movie I know that has left an
entire audience totally speechless.  Probably because Mr. Spielberg had
already said everything there was to say.

******
14 November 2000
10

Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan is as good as people say it is. Another
unbelievable achievement for Steven Spielberg. I also believe, like many
others, that this film should have won the Best Picture Oscar at the 1998
Academy Awards. I'm truly glad, however, that Spielberg snagged the Best
Director Oscar, a well-deserved win for him. This movie is definitely in my
Top 20 of All-Time and, in my opinion, is the second greatest war film
(behind Platoon), though I cannot say I have seen The Bridge on the River
Kwai, one that I will have to rent. An amazing war picture.
10/10

******
8 November 2000
10

This is a film that really demonstrates the horrors of war and the depth of
character needed to be a good soldier. The battle scenes are truly harrowing. Spielberg has steered clear of
glorifying any event, or of undermining realism with "cartoon"ish style
violence.My only criticism is that the film portrayed the war as an American/German
conflict. Despite the D-Day landings being a joint allied operation, we only
ever see American troops and equipment.

******
3 November 2000
10

This film is about one soldier who has to be rescued by Tom Hanks and his
men. The first few minutes show the horror of war. A sad film, with a
solid
human feel, with very good acting by the cast. i would recommend this
film.
10/10.


******
24 October 2000
9

It would be easy to criticize a war film produced with such zeal for
recognition by one of Hollywood's most talented and ambitious directors.  It
would be satisfying to downplay the significance of a film (like Star Wars)
that is wildly popular.But the reality is that Saving Private Ryan, like Star Wars, is an inspired
film created by a director at the height of his abilities.  It is both a
love letter to The Greatest Generation, and a warning to us younger folk
that war is indeed hell.The famous opening battle scene probably changed more minds about the
utility and glamor of warfare, than all of Baez's and Dylan's protest songs
combined.Speilberg's bravery in bringing such a scene to the popular audience has
rightly been rewarded by placing this film in in the pantheon of the best
films of all time.Lets hope that this film sets a new standard for the war film genre.  Lets
take the glamor out of war and leave it where it belongs, like on a beach
where the only thing being blown up is an air mattress.

******
18 October 2000
9

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen, but there was one thing
that niggled me. That is, why is it in every movie about the World War II
which are made in the USA, why is it that it is always the Americans who did
everything right and no one wrong? I mean, there were mostly British and
French people who were fighting in Normandy, oh yes I know that USA soldiers
were there to. So the big question is why isn't there a film about the fight
in Omaha? Where USA refused help from Britain.But on other notes, the film itself is excellent, I loved every minute of it
except that it wasn't historically correct. Spielberg is the master and Tom
Hanks is the best. 

******
15 October 2000
10

This movie is an example of "THE GREATEST GENERATION" and the hardships
they
endured in WWII, in Europe and the Pacific campaigns. This film is about
as
real as it gets. I am a combat veteran of the Korean war and I know what
those veterans had to go through. I am amazed that they have no memorial
in
Washington although they are supposed to start one on the MALL(where it
truly belongs)this spring. I hope because we are losing them {WWII
veterans)
at the rate of 1000 per day. Can you believe there are IDIOTS in this
country that do not want the memorial built on the Mall???? I am glad the
powers to be have over ruled those idiots because that is where it
belongs!!!! GOD BLESS ALL THE WWII VETERANS AND THEIR FAMILIES, AND
ESPECIALLY THOSE THAT GAVE THE SUPREME SACRIFICE. Jim Kelly.

******
26 September 2000
7

Fairly realistic war scenes, but sometimes a bit Hollywood.  We agonized
over decision to rescue one boy at the expense of others and can understand
both sides of argument - still haven't made up our mind.  Very graphic war
scenes showed the horror of war and maybe new generations will be slower to
get involved - but I doubt it.  Tom Hanks was masterful.

******
5 September 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan was one of the best films I have ever seen.  Filled with
realistic WWII action, it is a very accurate film.  I recommend this movie
to everyone...its as good as any history lesson.
10/10

******
2 September 2000
8

Saving Private Ryan is the best war movie I've seen. But yet, it's not all
about war. It makes you realize that war is a real hell. Of course you
already knew that, but all of those who only see war on the news at home
really gets to know what war is like by watching this movie.The movie won five Oscars (best director, cinematography, edit, sound and
sound effects), but I think that it's worth much more than that. The acting
is brilliant, the effects are very (and almost too) realistic and it's the
best movie from the whole year of 1998.It's really breathtaking...

******
1 September 2000
10

This movie will be a classic. It's one of the best of all
time.
One piece of advice. If you haven't seen it, DON'T WATCH IT ON VIDEO. To
experience this  movie you'll need a full surround and a sub-woofer. So, try
to watch it on a DTS or DD theater or try the DVD/DTS or DVD/5.1 (DTS is
better).

******
1 September 2000
9

This is the best war film of the 90's, and possibly of all time. The opening
battle scene is completely nauseating, and so is the last one, too. If you
see ten movies in the rest of your life, make sure this is one of them. I'll
give it 9.5, 10 for the opening, and 9 for the rest of the
film.

******
28 August 2000
10

   This is one the most important films of the 90's and another great in
Spielberg's close to perfect career. Tom Hanks is extraordinary as always,
and the supporting players create the perfect ensemble cast. The 25-minute
recreation of D-day is the most realistic war sequence ever made. Every
detail was paid close attention to in the making of this extraordinary
motion picture that has become possibly the greatest war film ever
made.

******
28 August 2000
10

The only thing that keeps me from disliking Spielberg is his ability to
step
away from the block buster dollar signs, and go back to the place where
movie-making is still dignified.  It is as if he doesn't care if it makes
money, as long as he can replenish his commitment to being a
'story-teller'
every now and then with something strong and poignant.  Now mind you, I
have
a personal reason to loving this movie, and that is because I grew up in
Europe, and heard first hand stories from a ninety year old woman about
the
german occupation.  Despite the gore, which did not deter me from my meal
(we were at a cinema pub) the movie gives the new generations a good look
at
what true war.  Not smart bombs and such, but real war, and real people.
It
is a super movie, but that is stating the obvious.  Personally, I would
like
to thank Mr. Spielberg for reminding the world what the costs of war can
be
-- and how devastating WWII was for the people of Europe and the Allied
forces.  A++ for the flick, and a big tip of the hat to Mr.
S.S.

******
24 August 2000
7

Saving private Ryan is a good movie i agree with that, nevertheless is too
light for explaining the story. Of course it is plenty of traditional stupid
humor; and a pathetic actuation of Tom Hanks ( thank you god almighty for
giving Benigni the oscar); The red thin line who was less hear in T.V. shows
is infinetly better.

******
22 August 2000
10

The quality of this movie is suburb, sound and vision makes it one of the
best (war) movies I have ever seen.
As far as it is possible, I believe that the opening scene
comes as close as possible about how it really was. The rest of the film is
also very catching and very real.

******
21 August 2000
10

I own this movie on DVD and it still remains very solid amongst my
large
collection.  Spielberg is truly a master director.  Finally someone has
accurately portrayed what it was like in battle.  From the ultra-realistic
depiction of gore and violence to the drama of the dying medic (get to
that
later)and most importantly portraying the wounded in battle.  I also like
the way Spielberg kind of exposed, or degraded the film to kind of give it
an old, gritty look to it, very nice effect.  Saving Private Ryan is,
honestly in my opinion, Speilberg at his directing best.  However, there
are
a few gripes.
First off, I have yet to see a war movie which combined all of the
needed elements to make it "the best war movie ever!"  Full Metal Jacket
is
close but no cigar.  Anyway one of the most important of these elements
would be character development, in which case Saving Private Ryan had
none.
The whole story behind Saving Private Ryan was to figure out who the old
man
was.  And what little character development they did have turned out to be
fruitless and not very interesting.  Another element missed was emotion.
True, the soldiers frightened faces and yells of mass hysteria was great
and
all, but I thought if this movie would some how have implemented a
narration
of some kind, then maybe I would care for the main characters a bit more.
Third element missing was the plot.  What can you do in 3 hours when the
whole plot revolves around going out to find someone.  Walk a little talk
a
little, fight, walk a little talk a little fight, die, fight, walk.  It
seemed kind of muddled and boring.  And another gripe, which isn't really
a
big deal, is how the medic died.  What the hell is he doing charging at a
machine gun nest?  Since medics aren't allowed to carry weapons, I was
just
pondering why they would have him run along with them.  I mean, what's he
going to do when he gets to the enemy, heal them to death?  Or maybe, just
maybe, if he was in syringe range he could take an enemy out with a
critical
stab, ahhh die Germans die!!!
Anyway, with all gripes aside, I still loved this movie.  Thanks to
Spielberg that is.  I enjoyed it in the theaters and I enjoyed it at home.
The war scenes are unmatched, music is great and overall it was well done.
Kudos.
*** out of ****   

******
19 August 2000
10

What can you say about this movie. I know one thing I can say is, "Steven
Spielberg is a genius". This movie tells outstanding story. It is the
story
of 8 soldiers and their quest to save one man.
Mr. Spielberg did an amazing job of telling this story. The
characters are very well-developed. The scene where the mother receives
the
telegram telling of her sons' deaths, is one of the most beautiful scenes
I
have ever beheld.
I could go on forever about the cast, the scenery, the realism, and the
action. However, I will just tell you, "If you haven't seen this movie you
have to see it!!!"
One thing I would like to ask is why FOR PETE'S SAKE did anyone ever give
this movie a rating of 1, instead of 10. They must be the type of people
who
don't have any beauty in their life.
I give this movie all four stars, I rate it 10, it's great, it's
beautiful,
etc.........


******
12 August 2000
10

To compare this movie to other war movies is just wrong.  Most war movies
have no true emotion as far as what is would be like to be there.  The
realism of this film can have so much impact on your life if you just let
it, and understand the real sacrifice that solders have made.  Solders who
are real people and not just names on a wall or in a book or on a death
certificate.
This movie was not made for your entertainment, it was made for the vets
of
WWII... and American vets at that.  I don't believe that there is any
possible way to know the impact a war can have on your life when serving
in
combat without experiencing it first hand.  Saving Private Ryan is the
closest thing possible to that.  I have more respect and admiration for
those who have fought for their country now that I have seen this film.
This is by far the best film ever made.


******
25 July 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan staring Tom Hanks, is a masterpiece of a WWII movie.
I
recommend viewing this movie if you have a strong stomach.  Saving Private
Ryan features gruesome war related violence, Strong profanity.  Tom Hanks
performs a realistic act of a WWII commander.  Overall it was a great
movie.
I gave it a 10/10

******
24 July 2000
10

"Saving Private Ryan" starts out with a very graphic, difficult, and
fascinating scene of American soldiers storming the beaches on D-Day.  The
scene is tragic and merciless, but probably almost exactly what is was like
for the real soldiers in WWII.  Tom Hanks plays a Captain John H. Miller,
one of the first soldiers on the beach, and a leader of the attack on the
Germans at the fortified beach-heads.  Three days after that first landing
on the beaches of Normandy, Capt. Miller is given a new assignment:  He is
to take a special task force of eight men through occupied, war-torn
northern France to try and find one wayward paratrooper named James Francis
Ryan.  The reason for this seemingly absurd mission to find one man, a
simple Private, is because his mother back in Iowa has already lost three
sons, and the army wants to do the decent thing and let the last Ryan
brother, James, have a free ticket home to be with his mother.  The movie is
long, graphic, and painful to watch at times, but it has absolutely
excellent acting, writing, camerawork, directing, and cinematography.  This
is definitely one of the greatest war films I've ever seen.


******
23 July 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is Steven Spielberg's masterpiece and the best war film
ever made, with Paths of Glory, Platoon, Glory,and Apocalypse Now not far
behind. The opening 20 minute D-Day sequence is the most realistic piece of
combat action ever put on film. After watching it, you feel so bad for the
men who had to suffer through all that. That really shows you that combat is
hell on earth. Tom Hanks should have gotten an oscar for heroic performance
and all of the supporting actors should have gotten oscars too. This film
should have gotten the Best Picture of 1998 oscar, instead of Shakespear In
Love. Saving Private Ryan is far more moving and has a better storyline.
This film can also get very emotional especially toward the end. Absolutely
Brilliant War Picture. 10/10

******
23 July 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is a blockbuster masterpiece it features an all-star
cast such as Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin
Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, and Matt Damon.  This movie contains desterbing
war
violence and profanity.  This movie is good for anyone with a stong
stomache.  And of couse if you are a Tom Hanks fan.  Saving Private Ryan
was
a great movie all the way through.  It had a strong plot and I gave it a
10/10 

******
22 July 2000
10

Great movie transport us to a different world, and for the first twenty
minutes of this movie, I was transported to Omaha Beach on June 6, 1944.
This sequence is easily one of the best, if not actually the best, piece of
movie making I've seen. That it has another sequence at the end just as
powerful as the first speaks volumes about the its greatness. Spielberg's
outstanding direction is matched only by Tom Hanks' portrayal of Captain
Miller. Today, two years after watching this movie, almost every scene is
fresh in my mind, none more than the weariness on Captain Miller's face as
the final battle plays out. Together with  "Schindler's List", this movie
cements Spielberg's place among the best directors of our generation.


******
20 July 2000
9

I don't like war films. Definitely. But I definitely think "Saving Private
Ryan" cannot be considered only like a war movie. I mean, films like
"Rambo", "Commando" and that kind of productions have one point in common:
the main character is a hero, "the strongest man on Earth", "the renegade
who's escaped from the bad fellas" and "the only one who can achieve this
mission".In "Saving Private Ryan", the war vision goes one step... Not one, a bunch
of steps far from the typical war film. It's not about the typical story of
a "how-strong-and-brave-I-am" mercenary. The plot introduces us in the
feelings, the experiences that a soldier has in a battle field: fear, agony
& pain. And this message reached deeply in the audience, because you feel
somehow uncomfortable when watching the film. And there's the power of the
film, the way with which focuses the sensations and fearings of the
character is overwhelming.Steven Spielberg has done a masterpiece, demonstrating that he can do any
kind of genre in the film industry. It's a must see. 10/10

******
14 July 2000
10

I think this movie got it all drama,action,humour and the best actors.You
got Tom Hanks one of the best actors ever and Matt Damon who also will be
one of the greatest actors ever.All those other actors are great too
especially Barry Pepper he is also a great actor I hope he will make more
movies I also liked him with Tom hanks in the Green Mile also a great
movie.But I think this is the most realistic world war 2 movie.I still
dont
get it that this movie did not win the oscar for best movie!!!!!!! I dont
get it??? Its a Spielberg classic and it will be one of the best movies
ever
made and for me its the best movie ever made! 

******
7 July 2000
10

The greatest portrait of any war on film ever. Spielberg really is the
ultimate teller of stories through film at this moment in time. It's the
whole package that stands out not just one item on it's own. Whenever a new
Spielberg film is released people flock to watch many without even checking
the contents, due to his fantastic track record, and I have to admit I'm
one
of those people. But this film has scenes that take your breath away there
so good, for me this is a film I can watch over and over again, and I will.


******
5 July 2000
10

Just this last weekend, I watched this movie with my daughter
and son-in-law.  He had told me I really needed to watch it, he
thought I would like it.   Wow what a cast!!! Tom Hanks was just great and
so were all the others.   It really made me stop and think of all the hell
our soldiers must have went through and just how many families suffered
these kind of losses.  I barely spoke a word after the movie was over.  It
was one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Really makes you appreciate
the brave men who fought for this country.

******
4 July 2000
8

I think Saving Private Ryan is a very good movie. I know it was a very
violent movie but that's, what made it a good movie. It was also very sad,
and it had excellent acting. I think Saving Private Ryan should have won
the
oscar instead of Shakespeare in Love. 

******
3 July 2000
10

From very impressive opening scene, and through entire movie,  Spielberg
forces only one message - war is dreadful beast which consume everybody and
everything it lay hands on.
Taking the beach on D-day, in this movie, is one of the most bloodiest
scenes ever recorded on motion pictures.
Shocking scenes of destruction and killings are very strong and horrible;
for example scene where Nazi kills a American soldier with a knife in a
house, where Nazi talks to him on German, and American shouts:"Stop! Stop!
Wait! Wait! Listen to me! Listen to me!", is very lifelike, and it's not
classical Hollywood scene.
Or sniper. Or tanks. Or...everything.
The idea of film is very noble - I don't know is this action ever take a
place, but fact that many brothers, fathers, children...died in that
monstrous event before 60 years is scary...over 50 million people have been
killed.You really have to earn something in your life, as Ryan
did...
Then you understand the importance of life itself. 


******
3 July 2000
9

My oh my, Spielberg just can't stop from making teardrop drama's if it's
about extra terrestrial fungus or about the holocaust or world war 2, He
just can't resist throwing in that teardrop pathetic stuff.This movie would have been the world's best war drama if it was not for that
part.But I must say that the D Day landings are unmatched in the history of film
making.

******
1 July 2000
8

Take the hype, Tom Hanks and the first 20 minutes of this film away and you
have a very routine war film with all the usual cliches, gung-ho American GI
superhero gunk, all-looks-lost ending and loads of flag
waving!In fact even with Hanks the film stinks. There are far better war movies
around, the underrated Thin Red Line, Cross of Iron, the full subtitled
version of Das Boot (The Boat) and perhaps best of all, Sam Fuller's The Big
Red One.But of course they didn't get the kind of success they so richly deserved
because there was no Spielberg/Hanks collaboration to get the hypemobile
moving.With the exception of the truly outstanding 20 minutes, where no other film
(apart from truelife documentaries) has ever come close to the realities of
war, SPR sucks through a long thin straw!It sometimes amazes me how Speilberg can hit all the right notes (Jaws,
Close Encounters, Schindler's List) with lots of decent action & rounded
believable characters we feel for; and then comes out with dross like SPR &
Lost World.For those that live outside the States this film will probably leave you
cold - especially if you're one of those allied countries that also served
in France during WW2, but didn't even get a sniff in SPR.The only decent acting came from Tom Sizemore as Sergeant Horvath. But even
he isn't allowed to develop his character before his off on another mission
shooting at people and banging on that War is Hell etc.If you want heroes, if you want emotion, if you want drama, if you want a
true depiction of how bad WW2 really was go and buy Schindler's
List!*/*****

******
27 June 2000
10

The opening and closing sequences of this movie are the most realistic
scenes about combat that I have ever seen. They convey the disorientation,
shock, crippling fear, and chaos far better than anything else on film.
Steven Spielberg is the most gifted director in the business. Tom Hanks
deserved another best actor award for his powerful performance of the
battle
weary Captain, from the hand tremor to the thousand mile stare. This is a
must see movie!

******
23 June 2000
10

I can remember the hype on television. Tom Hanks on Oprah. Ed Burns and
Matt Damon on the View. I thought nothing of it at the time, I thought it
was just another big movie by Steven Spielberg. Then one day in late
summer
I decided to go see this film. I walked out of the theater that day, a
humbled 16 year old boy, crying like a child. What was that I had just
seen?
Did those things really happen? Why?Saving Private Ryan is the single greatest movie I have ever seen. A
lot
of people recommend movies that make you think about something, whether it
be a cause, an emotion or a question. Saving Private Ryan makes you think,
it makes you think of the price of our freedom. This movie, and this movie
alone, shows the horrors that our fathers and grandfathers had to face.
This
movie has sparked several conversations with my grandfather about what he
went through during the years of 1939-1945 and boy, would his stories make
a
good movie.I just can not describe the emotional impact this film has had on me
and
the ones close to me. It was made with such precision and care, it is
undescribable. The story is moving, the acting is absolutely flawless, the
realism is beyond comparison to any other war film and the time spent on
historical accuracy must have lasted for years. Just watch the Omaha Beach
sequence and you will see what I mean about historical accuracy. John
Williams musical score is amazing and heart felt as is Mr. Spielberg's
direction.In closing, Saving Private Ryan is a masterpiece. A masterpiece that
should be shown in every history class across this great nation called
America.

******
21 June 2000
10

I can't express how much I love this movie!!! Everything about this movie is
good, the acting, the action, the plot, everything! The part of this movie
that I love the most is the drama. This movie is so powerful I swear every
time I watch it, it gets better and better. This movie should have won best
picture. I recommend it with great honor. (10 out of 10 stars!)


******
17 June 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is Steven Spielberg`s second world-war2-themed film(the
first was the excellent Schindler`s List).
We follow some American soldiers who are fighting against Hitler`s Wehrmacht
in Normandie.  The opening scene is spectacular and extremely violent, but
then that was how the Allies managed to get over the English channel and
over to France.
The movie is very good, it has both realistic war-scenes and great
drama(although The Thin Red Line focuses more on drama).
All in all I can honestly say that Spielberg has gone and delivered the
goods again, and what we have here is yet another important movie.  I prefer
this over The Thin Red Line, even if it doesn`t have the excellent
soundtrack of The Thin Red Line.
9/10

******
15 June 2000
9

Its hard after viewing 'Saving Private Ryan' not to feel numb from the
experience. It's not a pretty movie, from the opening battle shots your
senses are assaulted by the violence & terror that men facing death must
feel. 'Saving Private Ryan' has raised the standard in presenting war
films
in a factual, non-propaganda style. Watch this movie & feel for all those
who have given their lives defending what they believe as right, you just
might realise how lucky we are!! 

******
11 June 2000
9

Saving Private Ryan is the best war film I've seen. My favorite war film was
The Memphis Belle until Saving Private Ryan came along.This film captures the real horrors, atmosphere and emotion of WW2. A lot of
scenes in Saving Private Ryan are really emotional. Tom Hanks plays the part of Captain John Miller. Who leads his team of
soldiers deep into enemy lines, to save Private Ryan because both of his
brothers have been killed and he needs to be saved since he's the only
brother left.The start of the film is amazing but very bloody. It shows what those brave
young soldiers had to go through in WW2.Amazing, brilliant and breath taking, just some of the words I can describe
Saving Private Ryan with.10/10

******
4 June 2000
10

I can't get the image out of my head of the landing on the beach.  I have
always known that this was a tremendously bloody battle, but this scene
really brings it home.  The fact that anyone would willingly go onto the
beach is amazing and demonstrates the level of committment that these young
men must have had - this is courage with a meaning, not foolish, macho
"courage" as it is so often depicted.  Throughout the movie I found myself
in awe of the way Spielberg presented these men as real people with
emotions, fears, and flaws who were trying there best to serve their
country
and keep their sanity in such an awful and trying situation.  It's so
seldom
that one gets the chance to see true character development that is subtle
and adds to the movie rather than simply being written in as an
afterthought.  Forget Titanic, this should have been recognized as the best
movie ever made.  Everything about this movie is great, and a great
misservice was done for the academy to not recognize it, not only for its
technical excellence but for its purpose in trying to realistically portray
the horror and courage of war.  Kudos to Spielberg and everyone else
involved in this movie!

******
4 June 2000
10

I can't get the image out of my head of the landing on the beach.  I have
always known that this was a tremendously bloody battle, but this scene
really brings it home.  The fact that anyone would willingly go onto the
beach is amazing and demonstrates the level of committment that these young
men must have had - this is courage with a meaning, not foolish, macho
"courage" as it is so often depicted.  Throughout the movie I found myself
in awe of the way Spielberg presented these men as real people with
emotions, fears, and flaws who were trying there best to serve their
country
and keep their sanity in such an awful and trying situation.  It's so
seldom
that one gets the chance to see true character development that is subtle
and adds to the movie rather than simply being written in as an
afterthought.  Forget Titanic, this should have been recognized as the best
movie ever made.  Everything about this movie is great, and a great
misservice was done for the academy to not recognize it, not only for its
technical excellence but for its purpose in trying to realistically portray
the horror and courage of war.  Kudos to Spielberg and everyone else
involved in this movie!

******
3 June 2000
6

As I left the cinema after watching this film  my first thoughts were 'it
wasn't as good as 'The Cruel Sea'.'. And, I have to say, this film loses
out
in every aspect against the old black and white classic. Jack Hawkins acts
Tom Hanks off the screen even though he had just had his larynx removed
because of throat cancer. The script is excellent and well written and
fully
highlights the in-humanity of war that 'Saving Private Ryan' fails
miserably
to do. All in all if you want a good thought provoking war film watch 'The
Cruel Sea'.

******
31 May 2000
6

The story is too unbelievable. 
I was not able to put that thought away during the whole
film.
But when it would be a realistic , brutal war-story the masses would not
like it.The story is maybe too superficial BUT I LIKED "Saving Private Ryan". This
is a very nice and professional movie , 'fun' to watch.A must see. (Oh yeah , forgot to mention : Everyone outside America SKIP the
last ten seconds. You will see some stupid flag. I didn't understand that
part.....;))

******
29 May 2000
7

I believe that Steven Spielberg has three objectives here: 1) to prove that
war is REALLY hell; 2) to shine a spotlight on the veterans who gave and
risked their lives defending our country at a time when patriotism meant
something; and 3) to tell a poignant story.  He succeeds in all 3, but only
the third is what really interests me when seeing a movie.  The other
objectives lead to overdoing the gory aspects of things, and some
uncharacteristically poor editing and confusing use of slow-motion.  In
fact
much of the camerawork here seems to be uncharacteristically self-conscious
for Spielberg.  That being said, this still merits viewing  -- it is quite
memorable.

******
22 May 2000
10

This movie has got to be one of the all time Great War
Films..
The realism and the newsreel style provided a powerful cold sweat
effect..
The only thing missing was the sea spray and the smells of
WAR.
I am sure that will be next.

******
17 May 2000
7

THERE WILL NEVER BE ANOTHER WAR LIKE WWII. And though Hollywood has done
everything in its power to glamorize full-scale combat, Saving Private Ryan
is an important reminder that war is not glamorous, noble nor pleasant in
any way. In Ryan, Steven Spielberg delivers some of the most terrifying
battle scenes ever committed to film, and in the process, uncovers the
lingering bits of humanity found in the hearts of all men, even soldiers in
the midst of an all out invasion.  
Most of the action in Ryantakes place on the battle field the brutality of war Saving Private Ryan is a story of mutilation. Soldier's
bodies are torn in half, exploded, gutted, sliced, stabbed, dismembered, and
generally desecrated in every way imaginable. And for their trouble, the
lucky ones receive a quick-and-dirty burial in a mass shallow grave. It's
this reality that Spielberg embraces, never giving the viewer anything less
than a close-up and graphic look at the carnage. But unlike slasher or Hong
Kong action movies, Saving Private Ryan was not made to impress the viewer
with its creative violence. The graphic violence is meant to scare the
living hell out of the audience, and give some kind of explanation for the
surviving characters' state of mind.  
With war comes suffering for all, not just the soldiers technical mastery Despite the horrors of war depicted in the movie, even the
most squeamish of viewers will find it difficult, if not impossible, to tear
their eyes away from the screen during the disturbingly intense battle
scenes. From the hand-held camera work (complete with occasional dropped
frames for that classic WWII stock footage look), to the devastating visual
effects of bombs exploding, bodies being torn to hell and, most of all,
bullets flying everywhere, Saving Private Ryan is a thing of absolute
wonder. And yet the visual effects pale in comparison to the sound effects
which are thick and powerful, and do more to bring the audience into the
world of the movie than anything actually on the screen.  
The opening scene beach invasion is the most intense battle of the entire
movie  
what about ryan? Beyond the amazing effects, sets and spot-on performances
from Sizemore, Burns, Davies and Pepper, Saving Private Ryan fails to
deliver the knockout punch in some aspects of the story. Yes, Private Ryan
is the last remaining brother of the Ryan family, and, of course it will be
difficult to find one foot soldier in the middle of a war, but that's about
all you get. Tom Hanks, as solid as his performance is, never quite takes
his character where it wants to go, and Matt Damon's character proves
practically meaningless, making it difficult to justify the loss suffered
trying to save him.so does it work? Saving Private Ryan will leave your nerves absolutely
frazzled and give you plenty to think about on the subject of humanity. And
though, there are a few disappointments along the way, the negatives are few
and the strengths are many and impressive. 


******
14 May 2000
10

While I am not usually a big fan of "war movies", and while this qualifies
in many ways, this is not your ordinary war movie.  The amount of violence
is not gratuitous, and provides an avenue to get closer to the characters
and the situation.  It's been awhile since I've actually seen it, but I do
remember giving my first 10/10 for this masterpiece.  If you can stand the
blood and gore, you will enjoy this movie.

******
14 May 2000
10

SPR is a wonderful movie filled with the history of WWII. It touches your
heart in more ways than one can even start describing. This movie makes
you
stop, and think. Despite the language, and the reality of this movie, I
would let any child see it over the age of 10. It meant a lot to me when I
first saw it. I was 12 when I first saw it. The day I saw it I watched it
over 4 times. It touched my heart in so many ways. I have the movie, the
soundtrack, and I am happily reading the book now. This movie is a 4 stars
MUST SEE!! PS: I LOVE YOU BARRY!! ( Private Jackson )

******
6 May 2000
10

My god, the first 30 minutes are... indescribable. There are so many
horrible details that come back to haunt your mind later.. The shouts.. the
blood... Hits you right between the eyes, or in the heart, burns scars into your
memory...After this, who can watch starspangled movies like "The Longest Day" or the
"Guns of Navarone" without laughing at those pathetic attempts to describe
war?

******
25 April 2000
9

I would just like to comment on the movie by saying it really kept me on
the
edge of my seat the whole time because it was so real compared to the real
war, and the camera shots made it look so real. The tactics, and actors
they
used, and explosions and so forth just made the whole thing come alive and
make you ask your self..."what if I was in the war!...it wasn't too long
ago."Michele

******
22 April 2000
10

With out a question this movie is the best of all time. It has touched and
affected so many people that have seen it, emotions run rampant, tears fall,
people are in suspence. Any movie that can make old WWII veterans leave the
theatre because of its realism has got to be number one. It was brilliantly
directed, brilliantly written, and the acting was superb. SPR is the best of
the best, better than the Godfather, better than the List, better than any
motion picture of our time. This movie is simply surreal. GO SEE IT IF YOU
HAVENT, buy it if you have. With out a doubt it proves that spielberg is one
of the greatest directors of all TIME.

******
19 April 2000
8
Steven Spielberg is back in business again. It
has been five years (at the release)
with SCHINDLER'S LIST 1993, but now he strikes
back better than Darth
Vader's empire (who fell in JEDI anyhow).
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN might
not be anything out of the ordinary (the first
scene is of course an exception) but
it appeals to me in a strange way. The opening
D-day scene is a classic piece of
art.Tom Hanks (of course mr.GoodGuy) is an
officer, leading Tom Sizemore,
Edward Burns, among others to find a private
Ryan (Matt Damon) which three
brothers has been killed. However you can
trust the thin red line that is the plot of
the mission is something to discuss, but it
doesn't make the movie any worse.The realism is shocking, and the warscenes are
just as intense as exciting. Great
acting, and the result is simply very
memorable.


******
14 April 2000
9

As we all know, the opening 30 minutes will go down in cinema history along
side the Odessa steps scene in Eisenstein's POTEMKIN (1925 - Russia) as pure
classic. The rest of the film is a journey taken through the madness of war
by Captain Miller, (Tom Hanks), and his men. The production values are of
the highest order, achieving realism and emotional impact. I admit to be in
fits of shakes during the opening and then crying on my way home. But do we
have to see what we already know and that is War is barbaric in death and
destructive to those who survive it. Maybe yes, because you value life just
that little bit more after seeing this. Only complaint. The ending battle.
I'm not quiet sure if that was a sign of patriotism or stupidity but it
almost had the flavour of the Dirty Dozen kicking Nazi butt but not quiet
so. By this stage it was enough war carnage.

******
13 April 2000
9

Saving Private Ryan really showed the horrible facts of war, no real heroes
here, just the plain fact that war is a very ugly fact of life that history
has repeated so many times before, the terrible reality that there is no
glory in war only sorrow and pain, the good guys (like so many previous
movies have not shown) have about the same chance as others to come through
alive or not, there is no such thing as luck but just the
brutal
reality and grim truth, things humans must endure. This is a great film
shown in such details never before seen. I recommend this film to everyone,
can't say I enjoyed this film, the special effects were all too real and
painful.

******
5 April 2000
9

This is one of the most powerful and emotionally moving movies I have ever
seen, it is a true modern work of art.  The story is a extraordinary with
many well defined characters brought together by the incredible acting.  The
story shows us the American side of the war and our feeling towards the
Germans, but it also shows the cruelty we showed towards them, too.  Steven
Spielberg does an absolutely wonderful job in capturing the horror of war, a
prime example of this would be the D-Day landing sequence and the final
battle.  As I said before, the acting is fantastic, especially Tom Hanks'
performance as a Captain Miller.  The music has that grand, powerful feel to
it which is what you come to expect from John Williams.  Do yourself a favor
and watch this classic.      

******
4 April 2000
10

I just saw this movie again on HBO this weekend.  What a triumph.  The
cinematography, plot, characters.  Well actually the lack of character
depth
was probably the only downside to the movie, like most Spielberg films.
The
fact that the academy thought this wasn't as deserving for best picture
over
Shakespeare in Love shows what dolts run the academy.  50 years from now
no
one will remember it.  However, people will see WWII come to life in
Spielberg's epic film.

******
21 March 2000
10
This film is truely a masterpiece.  No film in history has made war so real.
Hanks gives his best performance to date.  He is the man of the movie.  The
film seems real at times.  The actors are first rate.  10 out of
10.

******
20 March 2000
7
Certainly, SPR is powerful, mind-numbing stuff, but so are most decent war
movies if you spend three hours in the cinema. Maybe it was just that the
beginning was so hyped that it didn't quite have the impact I was expecting,
although a few fantastic moments did stand out (the "lucky guy" who's helmet
gets scratched by a bullet, for example). The problem is that for a movie
which is so brutally honest in its depiction of the horrors of battle, the
film is lazy to the point of dishonesty in so many other areas and insodoing
it undermines its credentials as an antiwar film.To start with a point made in a number of other reviews, the Germans are
utterly unsympathetic. The one German we feel sorry for turns out to be a
real baddie, eager to kill the heroic Americans as soon as he gets the
chance. The result is a movie whose values are completely the wrong way
round - the war was rightful insofar as it attempted to check an aggresive
and horrifically inhumane regime. It wasn't justified of itself by American
patriotism, rather, patriotism provided a powerful rallying point. Yet the
Stars and Stripes are far more redolent of America than of liberty itself,
in spite of the perceived American monopoly on freedom.  By making the
Americans heroic and the Germans either faceless or treacherous, by
excluding the involvement of Canadian, British and British Imperial troops,
and by the emphasis on the worshipful Flag, Spielberg turned the second
world war into a matter of Americans vs Germans, American patriotism vs
German nationalism, rather than right vs wrong. It was the noblest of
sacrifices for these men to die in a country that was halfway round the
world from their homes. Many, probably most, fought for their country rather
than for France, or Poland or for any ideal of liberty, but if you argue
that patriotism actually justified the war, then you're back to "Dulce et
decorum est". SPR certainly doesn't make war "dulce", but it comes pretty
close to making patriotism "decorum", when this is precisely what many of
the vilified Germans were fighting for.There are other problems with the film, with its story and characterisation.
Most, however, are covered in other reviews. One thing, though: the film was
much praised because all of the major protagonists are terrified by war.
Yet, the same old cliche remains - the weak link in the team who is too
scared to fight, but ends up finding his courage (admittedly after one of
the most brilliant scenes in any war movie, where the knife fight is
happening while the cowardly soldier waits on the stair). It's just a bit
disappointing. So many things in SPR are brilliant and uncompromising (like
the knife fight, people blowing themselves up with their own mines etc.)
that all the cop-outs and compromises are additionally galling. A
pity.


******
14 March 2000
10

If there ever was a movie that could be described as a tour de force, Saving
Private Ryan would be it.  From the much-talked-about opening to the
concluding battle, Spielberg has combined involving human drama with
masterful technical expertise (ranging from bravura camera work to jolting
editing) to stunning effect, and Ryan confirms Spielberg's status as the
leading director of recent years.  While the relatively plotless (but never
less than compelling) middle section has attracted criticism, in terms of
sheer visceral authenticity and dramatic impact Saving Private Ryan is
absolutely peerless.  Tom Hanks gives possibly his finest performance yet,
and the rest of the cast, despite essentially playing a selection of
stereotypes, do admirably well.Admittedly the battle sequences are quite bloody, and it is not quite as
great as the shatteringly unforgettable Schindler's List, but Saving Private
Ryan is none the less a towering achievement, and essential viewing.10/10

******
8 March 2000
7

Without doubt, the opening scenes bring home some of the reality of just
what it might have been like to be on the front line in a major assault
during the Second World War.Several individual scenes during the film are also equally well played and
directed - all of which makes the John Wayne style gung-ho final reel a bit
of a let down and the film as a whole rather less of the inspirational epic
that I'd expected.In a nutshell, if you were hoping for an up to date equivalent of "All
Quite
on the Western Front" forget it. It's a good action film but in truth
really
is no more intellectually stimulating than "First Blood".

******
2 March 2000
10

I did not see this movie in the theater, which I am very sad that I was
never able to because this is one moving film.  My friend recommended it to
me and I went out and rented the film.  I was so moved by the film that I
watched it twice in one  day this is just one great movie.  I cannot find
the words to say how touching, moving, and sad this movie is.10 Stars!!!

******
27 February 2000
10

After seeing the movie on video i thought to my self, "why not see what my
fellow humans think" and of course I logged on to this database and read
the
comments on the film, and I must say that I am somewhat agreeing, however a
lot of people think that the start and end scenes of the cemetery is dull,
I
really disagree, Those scenes are Crucial to the lesson of the
film.
Reading the book makes you realize that the directing is Sublime. This film
is, as stated in other comments, not a true story, but I've heard WWII
veterans claim that the only thing missing in the film is the
smell.
Being the greatest WWII movie ever, I think that both Spielberg & Hanks
deserves a round of applause, for their great work.


******
26 February 2000
9

Powerful movie, intense combat scenes do not detract from an excellent
story.  Accurately depicts many facets of combat duty, from the uniqueness
of each individual to the single mindedness represented by the squad's
mission.  Portrays the captains duty to achieve the success of the mission
while attempting to ensure the welfare of the troops he
commands.

******
14 February 2000
9

I have always been a big fan of War movies....and I was looking forward to
this one more than others I had seen before.
It being a Speilberg was going to be as special as the Kubrick "Full Metal
Jacket" was.The starting twenty minutes had everyone shocked and I can guarantee that
for I saw it at the premiere and you could see that in everyones
faces...!!The way Speilberg uses the camera, the actors the music scores all come
together in this movie. Tom Hanks is in a class of his own as far as this
movie is concerned. My favourite character in the movie was the Sniper...if
I ever became a soldier thats who Id be!!Well behind all the bloodshed, death, victory and joy, there is a message
for us all...*War is never worth it...it doesnt matter on which side you
end
up*.


******
14 February 2000
5

Begins wonderfully with extended harrowing carnage -- one of the best "you
are there" action sequences of all time. But then, the film turns into
standard Spielberg -- sentimentality, trite life lessons, unsurprising
surprises, and "personalized" battle sequences that are diametrically
opposed to the mass slaughter of the opening (and that give the audience a
chance to root for the good guys, thus ensuring big box office). The last
scene, a soppy variation on the final moments of "Schindler's List," is as
bad as the opening is great.

******
9 February 2000
10

The best movie I have ever seen.  This movie showed in graphic detail and
fast motion that war is hell.  It did not show war as glamorous as other
movies have done.  It revealed how anyone fighting in a war is susceptible
to death at any given time, no matter what side you're on or how careful
you
try to be.  It was also a story of unselfish sacrifice, whether for God,
Country, or Duty.

******
6 February 2000
6

I was really impressed by that 20-minute introduction, that´s what cinema
is
made for. It
crash-boom-bangs just from everywhere and you seem to be incapable moving
from your
seat. Great work, 10 points...SO FAR. But what comes next ? As it is
forbidden to use
spoilers in this text I can just say: what comes next is one of the most
stupid stories
in film history ever. Spielberg must have been of the opinion that the
audience might be busy thinking about that impressive introduction until
the
movie is over and in this case the film
doesn´t need no such thing as a sensible storyline. According to the
imdb-members´ rating
of 8,6 making it the 12th best movie ever, Spielberg was obviously right.
And even if the
story is missing there is enough patriotism in this film to make it
successful in the U.S..
My rating: 6 points and far away from the being one of the top 20
movies.

******
6 February 2000
10

I hope that this is the closest that I ever come to combat
in
my life. Thank God for the men that put their lives on the
line
to keep us, and the world, free. Hats off to Spielberg for
the realism of the combat. That should be enough for all of
us
to make a promise to ourselves to personally thank as many vets as we can
for serving to keep us free. War is no walk in the park, and this movie
comes closest to capturing just how close to hell it really is. This movie
teaches a lot about sacrifice, courage, heroism, and emotion. Sometimes
there are
causes greater than our own selves which are worth sacrificing for. A
great
movie for this era. Too many men of that generation
have passed away - this captures a little bit of what was special about
that
generation. A must see for all kids as soon
as they are capable of handling it.


******
5 February 2000
7

First off, everything you may have heard about the opening Normandy sequence
is true: this is quite simply the most amazing battle re-creation footage
you're ever likely to see. Definitely not for the squeamish, it paints its
horrifying portrait without ever allowing the viewer to glory in any kind of
"excitement" (which most battle simulations end up doing on some level, even
the well-meaning ones). Spielberg uses every ounce of his talent and
ingenuity to show combat the way it should be shown: as pure Hell, a
nightmare that it is impossible to waken from.As for the rest of the movie which follows this opening sequence. . . well,
I'm not sure. The first time I saw it, I was caught up from the beginning
and the rest of the film seemed to hold me equally well. But upon further
viewings, the flimsiness and basic illogic of the central plot become far
more noticeable. I don't know, it's a toss-up. There are still several
compelling scenes here, and Tom Hanks gives the performance of his career
(his "dramatic" career anyway - I'm one who still believes there's much to
be said for Tom's earlier work in comedy) but there just seems to be an
overall "falseness" in the structure that undercuts some of the film's
power. I wish a better framing story could have been found.But by all means see this movie. Warts and all, it's the kind that only a
truly great director could make - and the opening alone is worth the cost. 
Just don't expect a masterpiece; think of it more as a flawed
gem.


******
27 January 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is an amazing movie and has the greatest 
battle scenes ever filmed!  I still haven't figured out how this lost best picture. One of Spielberg's best!

******
24 January 2000
8
There's violence and there's violence. With the huge numbers of
personal reviews of this movie, I'm hard pressed to add much. The first
half hour affected me like no other in recent years. I wondered as the
boys threw up on the amphibious carriers whether they were seasick or
scared beyond belief. When one uses the expression "cannon fodder" so
casually, do we realize that this means the second wave makes it's way
to the beach over the dead and dying bodies of the first wave, like
ants sacrificing themselves to ford a puddle. The ones that get
through, get through because there are only so many bullets and so many
people. They are exposed, disoriented, helpless--they have no place to
go but ahead. I will be haunted forever by the soldier searching, then
finding his dismembered arm in the carnage. I will remember those
trying to get above water, only to be cut down below the surface. If
anyone has a heart, his or her attitude toward war should never be the
same. How can we who have never been there have a hint of what it must
have been like. Like Schindler's List on the Holocaust, this should be
a training film on war.

******
23 January 2000
10

In my opinion, Saving Private Ryan is the best war film ever made. It is my
personal favorite movie, and I will tell you why. Many people claim this
movie is too graphic and violent, but the fact is that it is based on D-Day,
an actual event taking place in World War 2. By seeing this movie, you get
the experience of what combat in war is like, an experience you can't get
from just reading a book. Many veterans and other people have stated that
the battlefield scenes in this movie are 100% realistic, and the only thing
missing is the smell of the dead bodies. I think Spielberg has done a
wonderful job of making a good story out of history, with a great and
original plot, believable characters, and realistic events. I suggest you
see this movie as soon as possible, especially if you are into World War 2
movies like I am.

******
20 January 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is the best movie I have ever seen.  It is one of the
few films ever made that actually attempts to depict war in its actual,
horrific form.  All of the other war films feature soldiers dying
"sugar-coated" deaths, suddenly falling to the ground.  This occurred
maybe
1% of the time in reality.  In truth, soldiers were more likely to suffer
greatly before their wounds took them.  War is brutal- and this film
depicts
it very accurately.  It makes me think very much about what the soldiers
in
D-Day went through on June 6, 1944, and in any other battle or war.  They
all helped to make the world a better place.  My heart goes out to all who
dare to change the world in such a way.It is important to remember that the carnage of war was not only abundant
during World War II, but that this happened both before and after.  From
the
American Revolution to the Civil War, from World War I to World War II,
from
Korea to Vietnam, and beyond.Each time I see Saving Private Ryan, I think even more about the sacrifice
a
dedicated soldier will make for his country, and how many soldiers are
willing to do just that.If you are one of those soldiers who helped to change the world by risking
your own ultimate sacrifice and are reading this, thank
you!If you are one of the many people out there that does not care about
sacrifice at all and saw this movie, I have no idea what will make you
care.

******
16 January 2000
9

I am one of those baby boomers who arrived just after WWII and escaped
Vietnam.  So this movie seems to me to portray the horrors of war in such a
realistic way, that it has changed my view of conflicts such as this
forever.  Who cares whether it was accurate in terms of the weapons used or
from a  historical persepective.  The first 30 minutes show what war is
really like and that for me was the power behind this movie.  I am sure
people will talk about this movie for ever! 

******
15 January 2000
9

This film ranks right up there with "Schindler's List", "The Color Purple",
and to a lesser extent 
"Amistad" as Spielberg's greatest endeavor (from a dramatic standpoint).
"Saving Private Ryan" is by 
far the best war movie ever made! The film displays a sort of in-your-face
realism-which is probably 
the next best thing to actually being there. No bombastic music accompanying
battle scenes here; the 
only music you'll get are from rifles and explosions!I imagine people will be talking about "Saving Private Ryan" 50 years from
now as being one of the 
great classics!Rating: 10Nitpicks (minor spoilers):1.) The opening sequence shows old Ryan reminiscing about the D day landing
in Normandy (as if 
he was actually there), but in reality, Ryan was nowhere near Normandy on D
day; therefore, should 
the perspective had come from someone who was actually
there?2.) After releasing a Nazi P.O.W (to the protest of a few of his
subordinates who wanted to seek 
revenge on for slaughtering one of their friends) Captain Miller (Tom Hanks)
gives a nice speech on 
how killing a man makes him feel further and further from home each time,
yet he doesn't take a 
second's thought when clipping a few Nazi goons in the final act. I guess
Miller's philosophy is he 
doesn't like killing people, unless he has to!

******
13 January 2000
9

I suspect that only a veteran who actually experienced the horrors shown in
the film could attest to their authenticity. However, the scenes have the
feel of reality as do the reactions of the soldier characters to their
situations. The peg of the story that the high brass would sacrifice other
men to save one man for public relations reasons certainly rings true. We
are shown nothing to make war look attractive as the camera and special
effects move from one aspect of bloody death to another without pause. One
may carp that Spielberg takes a parochial view of the war in that no mention
whatever is made of other allies fighting Hitler. It looks like solely a
U.S. war. That's most likely just what it did look like to the grunts facing
the krauts and the japs in 1944. He is also accused of taking a middle class
view of the war: i.e. officers were teachers or other professionals, while
other ranks were not. Well, that is just about the way it actually was so
far as officers were concerned, but plenty of educated folks served in the
ranks. Nobody in the film talks about the lofty ideals of the war. Again,
that's realism. As a non-combat soldier in WW2 who served only stateside, I
cannot recall ever being involved in a discussion about "saving the world
for democracy". There was a lot of talk about the viciousness of the enemy,
though, both before and after the U.S. involvement. I expect the soldiers
"over there" were not much different. Lofty ideals are mostly spouted in the
speeches of politicians. I doubt that anyone can view this film without
being profoundly moved by the sheer monumental brutality depicted. Note that
it is a re-creation of brutality that actually happened; it is not the fake
horrors of your usual Hollywood "action" flick.

******
12 January 2000
9

A harrowing journey which is amazingly filmed, edited and choreographed. The
story drags you into it, even though you'll be shocked at the pain and
tragedy these soldiers went through, and it makes you believe and feel for
the characters like no other film I've seen in a long time.Hanks is wisely restrained, and the supporting cast are very good. I wonder
if Spielberg is the talent that brings the best acting, rather than choosing
the best actors around.The death scenes are unbelievably realistic, and are undoubtedly very
unnerving. One scene remains in the mind long after you've seen it, and it's
not the famous opening beach scene.Great realism which instills fear panic and confusion, almost a brilliant
work of art if not for the forgetfulness for the other nations
concerned.

******
8 January 2000
10

The best war film ever i say and its the truth, i have never seen such
realistic in a film before.Tom hanks a great actor
gives everything he got for this film. And no to one of
the most wonderful directors as he can make movies yes sir.This film is
worth a big
audience all over the world see this film recommended.

******
5 January 2000
10

This is one of the greatest war movies of all time. Defentely Speilberg at
his best! This movie is more graphic than Stalingrad. I thought it should
have won all those oscars. This movie is true to war. The most realistic
I've ever seen. 

******
3 January 2000
9

I had purposely not gone to see RYAN at the theater since I have a
difficulty with war depicted at an entertainment venue.  But it rolled over
me when least expected.  After a head-banging day while on a business trip,
I thought just dive into a motel and watch TV.  I got the last 45 minutes
of
RYAN instead of Frazier and couldn't turn it off. This is a military boot
camp training film as it can and should be with all the chaos, sound, and
death given straight up.  It turned my stomach as it should anyone else's,
whoever has one.  This is how war must be presented on screen to convince
others of its total destructiveness before decision-makers decide to enter
it and before hero-wanna-be's go too rah rah by joining it.  The film is
not
entertainment, it is a fleeting glimpse so intense but capable of leaving a
necessary imprint.  It is a vision of death shy of its totality but
demanding of your attention.  It misses one point from the battlefield -
the
pervasive smell of death that never leaves your brain.

******
28 December 1999
10
A film that should be shown to every person on earth
when they reach the age of 18. Maybe then we'll get lucky
and
stop killing each other.It's A True masterpiece on film on the horror of war.Take the cinematographer(s) of this film to London and get them deservedly
knighted.

******
27 December 1999
10

I'm not especially a fan of war movies (ie, I turn them off the instant I
determine that they're a war movie). Maybe this movie represents the
culmination of special effects, acting, and directing that is necessary to
make a successful war movie?I like movies that mean something, and I like directors who make movies
that
mean something. I can't help but compare this Spielberg movie with his
other
WWII movie, Schindler's list. Both films have detailed WWII in ways that
are
at the same time nakedly objective and blatantly subjective.Spielberg tries to scrape some humanity from the holocaust in Schindler's
List, while at the same time offering up the horrific imagery that was the
reality. He manages to do the same thing in Saving Private
Ryan.John Miller, an army officer, leads a team of WWII soldiers on a mission to
find James Ryan, whose three brothers have been killed in the war. Ryan
will
be sent home thanks to a high-ranking officer who decides that it would be
unacceptable for the Ryan family to receive yet one more notice of
death.Throughout the film, the characters question the value of saving one person
in the midst of the destruction and murder of many other soldiers. The
reality of war and the movie hits home when Miller, amidst losing men and
trying to find another to send home, convinces his men to risk their lives
because the main objective "...is to win the war."There are some many different levels on which this film is chilling, and
this movie is especially good at portraying how characters in their
different stages of life interpret what's going on. And really, nobody is
right and nobody is wrong. Great movie.

******
25 December 1999
10

Of all war movies that I have seen, this is without a doubt number one!
This movie is loaded with action and suspense.  It shows the disturbing
realities of war (so I've been told).  It really made me appreciate what I
have thanks to those who fought so hard and gave up so much.  The Dolby
Digital track is awesome!  There are scenes in the movie where German tanks
are rolling by in close proximity to the camera and the rumble coming from
the sub in my home theater probably made my neighbors look out their
windows
in fear of a Panzer in their driveway!  From bullets whizzing by to
airplanes flying over, the 5.1 is top notch.  If I had to pick only one
movie to have in my collection, this would be it!

******
21 December 1999
9

This movie is a masterpiece of direction, the landing scene is one of the
best scenes in the history of movie making. But, let's not get carried away.
Now, let me tell you what this movie is all about.The whole thing about saving a private whose brothers have all been killed
isn't at the root of this story, it is just a pretext to put some men in
life or death situations and see how they react. The whole movie is a
metaphor of WAR, all wars. Wars are used to have more lands, more power.
Thousands, millions of men die in a war to please these people who want
these lands or this power. In the movie, men fight and die for something that seems so insignificant:
the life of one man. All these men get slaughtered for that ONE thing that
is so important for some but seems so stupid to us. So, The movie is in fact
a transposition of war in a context where we know all of the characters so
that we don't see a man who dies just as a simple private but as a human
being. I think that was the only way to show us all the horror of WAR
itself, and I think Spielberg knew that.

******
19 December 1999
10

This is not an easy film to watch.
Clearly, that was not its intent.  The story begins in current time at the Normandy American Cemetary in
France.  An elderly man, followed by his family, walks as if compelled
toward a single grave.  When he arrives there, his memory takes a different
journey back to the beaches below on the date, 6 June 1944.From this moment on, especially for the ensuing 25 minutes, we are thrust
into a story that, if it is hard to view, must certainly have been harder to
live.  As the troop transports approach Omaha Beach, the eerie sense of calm
gives way to a landscape that when all is said and done is one of the most
powerful statements ever put on film.When all is said and done, two brothers surnamed Ryan have died on the
beaches of Normandy.  Another has died within a week in the Pacific.  It is
discovered that a sole surviving brother has parachuted somewhere in France.
 It is the assignment of a survivor of Normandy and his platoon to find this
brother and return him home.Director Steven Spielberg is a master at bringing emotion to the surface and
he does it once again with a film which is gut-wrenching.  However, the
movie isn't all blood and gore; it's the story of young men and boys who
fought and died to preserve a way of life and to eliminate the evil that
they saw.Tom Hanks heads the cast as Capt. John Miller, the man who is given the
mission to find Pvt. Ryan and bring him home.  In one sense, it works
against the film to know that Matt Damon plays Pvt. James Ryan, but not so
much that you can't appreciate the nuances which Miller and his platoon come
up against time and time again during their mission.I agree with those who say that Spielberg puts us, his audience, into the
film and sweeps us up and carries us along from the opening moments until
the film's end.  It is a masterful piece of filmmaking that makes us feel
that we have survived, although we were never in danger.Saving Private Ryan is a masterpiece.My vote:  11!!

******
19 December 1999
8

Steven Spielberg has shown again his wonderful talent in Saving Private
Ryan. Personally I don't like to watch warlike movies. They always look the
same, they always say the same, they are the same thing each time I see one.
But Steven Spielberg just has told us that a warlike movie might be a GOOD
movie. He did a great job at the Schindler's list, and he did it again in
Saving Private Ryan.The reality of this movie is even scary. It makes you think what would
happen if a war would start now, and what would I do on front of somebody
that would shoot all my partners. Would I be strong enough? He is asking
that to each person that watches the movie. He is asking that. WHAT WOULD
YOU DO? That is why I think is a scary movie! It looks so real that makes
you think you are one of those people, and that in any time, the guy next
sit will get shot. Or even that yourself is about to get shot.Not everybody is ready for a war. Most of the people is not ready for a war.
And many people is not even ready to see one of the best movies ever
done!I can't believe Shakespeare in love was considered better for the acadamics.
That was a shame. Shakespeare in love is not bad, just not as good.In my opinion; IF YOU THINK THAT YOU ARE READY TO SEE BLOOD, TO SEE
VIOLENCE, TO SEE THE WAY WORLD WAR II WAS, GO AND ENJOY THE MOVIE AT THE
SAME TIME YOU THINK THAT THE HUMAN BEING IS THE MOST DUMB THINK IN THE
EARTH. And thank Steven Spielberg to let you know it! 

******
16 December 1999
6

In the 90's, almost suddenly, Hollywood rediscovers war and the public is
expected to rediscover it as well.Nevertheless, after 2h30mn with Private Ryan, I haven't seen much I didn't
know or seen anything outstanding about it.No, not much, except perhaps one scene : a black car gliding in the wheat
fields of the Midwest and a mother who, looking at it through the window,
instinctively knows something has gone wrong. She opens the door and
stumbles as the priest steps out of the car...Spielberg could have spared us the red tide on Omaha Beach,  the Colgate
smile of Matt Damon and much more. This woman behind her sink says more than
all the rest, she truly saves this "Private Ryan".Another positive note on the movie is the unusual appearance of cowardice.
Yes ! War creates cowards, including among perfectly decent American boys.
We had seen GI's weeping and panting but Hollywood seldom showed us cowards.
Spielberg had the guts to go that far.For the rest "Saving Private Ryan" is just another movie, no more no
less.

******
16 December 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan (SPR) is a film like no other before it.  For the first
time ever the realism and gruesome detail of war is there for all who dare
to face it.  Starting on perhaps the most significant day in history, D-Day,
it follows the story of Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and his band of
soldiers as they search for one James Ryan (Matt Damon), who has lost all
three brothers and has been given a ticket home to be with his
mother.The soldiers sent to save Private Ryan question the motive of risking eight
lives for one; a stranger, a faceless name for which few survive in trying
to complete their mission to get Ryan home safely.The footage is graphic.  When the hatches on the landing boats open, bodies
are literally torn apart by high calibre machine gun bullets.  Booming
explosions, agonizing screams, the whine of bullets richocheting.  At the
conclusion of the initial battle, all that remains is a sea of blood washing
ashore.  It is immersive and I for one was left speechless and literally
shaking.Some have criticised the acting, in particular the relative 'unknowns' in
the supporting cast, but I believe such criticisms are harsh.  The quality
of the supporting cast, with Tom Sizemore and Ed Burns, plus a cameo by Ted
Danson combined to make the acting quite good.  Tom Hanks, as always, was
Oscar-worthy, portraying the huge burden of an ordinary English teacher
leading men into battle, knowing many men under his command will not be
going home.SPR is definitely the best 'war' film, and one of the best films period. 
The very least you should get out of Saving Private Ryan is an appreciation
of war and what those men experienced in trying to protect the world's
freedom.  Lest We Forget.

******
12 December 1999
10

I have seen many War movies with different points of view, about different
Wars and different geographic locations during those wars. I have never
seen
such a powerful and realistically shot film, I have never been to war, but
after watching this film, I left the theatre feeling, I had. It is an
amazing film. Word of caution, have the DVD, but it doesn't do it justice.
This film must be seen on the BIG Screen. 

******
8 December 1999
10

Tom Hanks leads a small group of soldiers to find one man during World War
2.Exceptional acting and academy award winning direction from Steven
Spielberg mixed with a good plot make this an unforgettable film.Won 5
oscars but someone did not win best picture.The D-DAY sequence is
brilliantly filmed & edited and the violence is unforgettable.One of the
best films I have ever seen.Rating:***** (out of five)Rated R for graphic violence & language      

******
6 December 1999
10

As my wife and I packed our rented Ryder truck to move from Florida to
Chicago, my neighbor came walking by with his small white dog.  I had seen
this man, with his little dog that was so small that it looked like it
should have batteries, walk by my place for the better part of a year but
never had a conversation with him.  He stopped by then and we chatted
amicably about little things like the weather etc.  As we talked, I noticed
a small brass pin on his ball cap that said "D-Day Veteran."  I was amazed.
I collect all kinds of info on WWII airplanes and here was an opportunity
to
actually talk with a D-Day participant.  We chatted longer about those
times
and he invited me into his home to show me his souveniers of that period of
his life.  There in an old newspaper clipping was a picture of a younger
him
indicating he had gone ashore at Dog Green Sector of Omaha Beach.  I cannot
tell you the awe I felt in this mans presence.  For the uninitiated, this
was the same sector that Tom Hanks' company was to have gone ashore in
Saving Private Ryan.Ready for the last coincidence?  My last name is Ryan.This movie has only one flaw I can see.  We could have done nicely without
the bookends of the old man at the tomb of Capt. Miller.  It was a very
touching scene to be sure, but distracting to the movie as a
whole.

******
5 December 1999
10

this was, without a doubt, the best war movie i've seen ever. yes the gore
was a bit much, but it was only to summarize real war. steven spielberg
and
tom hanks both did a fantastic job. i think everyone should see this movie
some time in their lifetime. In a rating from one to ten, i give it a ten.


******
4 December 1999
10

Congrats to Spielberg for another masterpiece to add to his list. This
movie
shows how god-awful war really is. To those people who thought this movie
was overrated or whatever, well those are your opinions, and to Spielberg,
I
am awaiting another one of your masterpieces. Truly the best war film ever
made.

******
3 December 1999
9

The single most powerful film I have seen since "Schindler's List". The
opening and closing scenes are technically brilliant and punch you right in
the gut - the best direction & cinematography I have ever scene in a film.
Everybody that I know who has scene this film has had tears in their eyes by
the end.The film does lose a little steam in the middle, but not enough to make it a
"bad" film as others have said. It just pales a bit in comparison with the
explosive opening and closing battles. Some quibble that Spielberg caters to people's emotions and relies on that
for his film's impact. Of course he does...iliciting emotion is what makes a
film powerful. It has to affect you for you to care about what's happening. 
Spielberg has a gift for knowing what buttons to push and, while not all of
his films are perfect, its why he will some day (if not already) be regarded
as the best American director of all time.The best film of 1999 and possibly the decade. It was robbed at the Oscars.
A 10.


******
2 December 1999
10

Forget Platoon, forget Full Metal Jacket.. This is the real thing, closer
to
the blood, guts and madness of war than ever before... This one grabs your
throat and squeezes you mildly throughout, leaving you dizzy and with a
wrenching stomach... and with thoughts... lot's of thoughts that you won't
digest in the first few days...

******
29 November 1999
10

The Academy has missed again! There is no possible way that Shakepeare in
Love is better than this, the greatest war epic of the last twenty years.
Further, Tom Hanks should have received his third Best Actor Oscar for
another terrific performance.The battle scenes were far greater and realistic than any other battle
scenes in any other movie of its kind, except for All Quiet on the Western
Front and, perhaps, the very underrated Gettysburg of a few years back.Best pure war movie since Patton, far better than the overrated Platoon and
Apocalypse Now flicks.How could the Academy give Platoon the nod and not this is unbelievable
because this movie is ten times better than Platoon.  The movie is not
preachy and anti-war. There is no unneccesary vulgarity or nudity; no evil
soldiers. It is straight to the point with a poignant storyline and the
realism is frightening.The scene where the Jewish soldier is killed by a German knife is one for
the ages. In that scene, we see the interplay of death with eroticism.

******
29 November 1999
9

I didn't see this movie in the theatre, but I thought it was good, for what
I could sit through. Some parts were just too gory for me to handle. It
didn't change my opinion of war, I've always thought it was horrible. Very
good story and good acting. See this movie if you've got a strong stomach.
The first 1/2 hour is particularly gory, just a warning. The rest of it
isn't QUITE as bad.I was impressed by this movie. The visual and sound effects were very
realistic, so realistic it was almost frightening. Can you believe people
would do such horrible things to each other? In conclusion, this movie
disgusted and amazed me.

******
28 November 1999
10

This movie was a masterpiece and Steven Spielberg has got to be one of the
greatest directors ever to walk the earth. The movies realism and the way
it
tackled the issues was quite breathtaking. The fact that there were people
walking out of the cinema during the opening scene does justice to the
realism of this film. It also shows the horrific reality that is
war.

******
24 November 1999
9

This movie was great! I've seen a lot of war movies but this one is the best
by far. Great character development, loads of detail and emotion. Spielberg
goes into a very great amount of detail with every scene. Bullets are flying
everywhere and unlike GI Joe, when a group of people fire hundreds of rounds
people are bound to get killed. This movie really puts things into
perspective and shows you just how many sacrafices are made during war, too
many to say the least. Makes you apreciate the type of life that you got now
and why you are able to live that life. The acting in this film was
excellent as expected with a Hanks, Spielberg type of movie. Not for people
with weak stomaches that for sure.

******
22 November 1999
7

Saving Private Ryan is the recent film directed by Steven Spielberg. A
director known for his audience manipulation and subsequent audience
appeal,
he has stated in interviews that like Schindler's List (1993), Saving
Private Ryan is a story that is meant to objectively portray war.The story begins on Tuesday, June 6th, 1944: D-day. At 6:30am that fateful
morning, an initial assault wave lands at Omaha Beach. The story proceeds
to
follow the story of Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and the men he
commands.
The first thirty minutes of the film includes some of the most graphic
violence known to the screen. With the aid of cinematographer Janusz
Kaminski (Schindler's List), Spielberg dispels any preconceived 'romantic'
notions of the 'last Great War.' The pace is quick and the film visually
mimics news cameras of the period. The fighting is presented as grim and
unglamorous. With use of various hand-held camera techniques and
astounding
sound effects the audience becomes part of the war. Another fresh
technique
employed is intermittent periods with Hank's character is surreally caught
up in the moment. One must see this film just for it's visual and aural
aspect. It truly is a lesson of history.
After surviving the initial attack, Captain Miller is given a new
objective. To save the life of one, Private Ryan (Matt Damon). This comes
to
be due to the fact that of the four Ryan's that entered the war, one
remains
alive, or at least is thought to be alive. His life is worth risking that
of
Miller's and his men.
From this point onward, I reconsidered the film's title to be "Saving Matt
Damon". The contrived Hollywood plot was presented thus forth. Perhaps the
life of the one is worth saving considering the lives of the many. I sure
as
hell would like to be that one life. And although a few characters
suffered
poignant moments, adding to much of the film's humanity, my mind could not
get over the added fiction within the history.

******
21 November 1999
10

     Steven Spielberg triumphs again. This was an amazing movie. The
intensity of this movie is amazing, with cinematography so realistic you
feel like you are really there. There are some scenes which are disgusting,
but show the horror of war like no other movie has, this was the best war
movie I have ever seen.     Tom Hanks is marvelous as is Tom Sizemore. They make a great team and
give the movie even more intensity because of the friendship of the two, and
both of them in a war together shows the bond that grows in war, and you
feel their pain as well as the soldiers that die in the
movie.     It is moving the way this picture is put together and shows that war is
more of a surreal nightmare than it is a glorious way to show your
patriotism. I think this movie definitely deserved the Best Picture award
and is worth going to see, don't miss it. It is an excellent
movie.

******
20 November 1999
10

I passed this movie many times while visiting the Video
store. I had been told it wasn't for the squeamish. One
of
my sons came to visit and talked about "Saving Private
Ryan"... of the impact it had on him after seeing it ...that
my husband and I should watch it. Having been a schoolgirl during WWII ...I
felt I had seen enough of the real thing, plus plus enough war movies to
last a lifetime. My son insisted, 
so we watched it and it was the most authentic war movie
I
have ever seen. At times it was hard to keep looking at
the screen when soldiers were being blown to pieces, but
I stuck it out. After all, this is what truly happened
to
these men who lost their lives, in order that we could
live
a free life. Something they would never do. I do remember seeing "The Sullivans" in 1944  ...the movie about the five
brothers who didn't want to be separated .. .but they all went down with
their ship ... bringing about the rule that this would never happen again to
a family. Yes, it did bring back a lot of memories, but if a movie like this
is watched by
the younger ones, they'll realize what a war is truly all about. My husband
feels that those who govern our countries should be made to watch this movie
on a regular basis. Being the mother of three sons, I can't imagine what
life must have been like for
The Sullivan parents losing five sons. "Saving Private Ryan"does make you think very deeply about this.

******
19 November 1999
6

You know you're in for it from the opening frame, with the flag waving in
our faces and the wailing horn from John Williams' typically unsubtle
score.
Spielberg exhibited beautiful control throughout nearly all of Schindler's
List, but he loses the tone for this one from the start; and the rest of
the
picture plays out as a jarring struggle between two different kinds of war
movies -- an unbelievably coy schmaltzfest and a grippingly violent
bloodbath.I cannot agree with the complaint that the movie doesn't portray the
British
and Canadian involvement at D-Day. No historical film is required (or is
able) to depict everything about its subject; it need only focus on one
specific part of that history. Unfortunately, Spielberg's focus on his one
specific part is blurred. Gruesomely effective as his Omaha Beach sequence
is, it is ultimately cancelled out by one of the immediately following
scenes: the hopelessly idealistic, Norman Rockwellish portrayal of the Ryan
family farm. Spielberg seems to be saying that the former was needed to
defend the latter; but because (as one critic has mentioned) his knowledge
of history is filtered entirely through other movies and Life Magazine, he
is unaware that the latter does not and has never existed. (There's also
irony in the self-promoted claim of "realism" in a movie that has its
soldiers talking loudly behind enemy lines, and one of them not knowing
what
FUBAR means. [The guy went through basic training, for Pete's
sake.])It's too bad because the acting -- especially by Tom Sizemore and Jeremy
Davies -- is generally very good. (Though Tom Hanks' shtick is wearing
thin.
He seems determined to join Harrison Ford, Robin Williams and Kevin Costner
on the Mount Rushmore for Sanctimonious Actors.) And the subject is of
course a noble one. But a noble subject does not automatically a great
movie
make

******
17 November 1999
10

This movie is in one word flawless. Steven Spielberg is undoubtedly one of
the best directors of all time. As I watched this movie I was struck with
awe on how well he and the actors crafted this movie. Yes, it was violent,
VERY violent, but it told a World War II story that any mature person over
the age of 11 should know. This ranks high on my top 5.
10+

******
15 November 1999
10

First, let me explain that I am not a big war film buff.  I liked Platoon,
and a few other films of this genre, but generally I do not enjoy war films.
 I think the reason for this is that most war films seem to glorify the act
of war.  They try to make war look fun and cool.  Saving Private Ryan on the other hand shows you just how brutal war is.  It
puts you right into the middle of one of the most deadly battles of the
entire war, and makes you glad that you are not one of the soldiers on that
beach.  This movie makes me appreciate our veterans and their struggles even more
than I did before.  But most of all, it makes me appreciate how lucky I am
to not have to risk my life for everything I have.  Our veterans have
already done it for us. 

******
15 November 1999
10

It's hard to imagine how anyone could not give this movie a 10.  It's not
just a great story, it's the display of the real horrors of war, instead
of
glorifying it, that sets this film apart.  It's a very moving experience
to
watch this movie.  If it's not -- your must be dead inside.

******
14 November 1999
7

Saving Private Ryan certainly deserves some accolades.  The now infamous
Omaha Beach scene is probably the best-choreographed war sequence I've
ever
seen.  It captures the horrors of war in many respects - the confusion,
the
bloodiness, the futility of soldiers being no more than cannon fodder.
The
direction is, of course, stellar - after all, we are talking about
Spielberg.  The choice to mute the colors palette to washed out greens and
greys is an especially nice touch.However, Spielberg refuses to lay off the schmaltz.  Oftentimes, the
scenes
where he injects some humanity or includes the everyman "average joe"
character (in this case the soldier-interpreter) to me appears forced.
The
opening and closing scenes also revel in this schmaltz, trying to bring
the
story into modern times and connecting it to today's audience.  Spielberg
tried something similar with "Schindler's List," with the stone-piling
scene
at the end.  To me, both movies work well enough on their own without
these
extras.  As good of a director as Spielberg is, he often resorts to these
over-the-top techniques to jerk a tear or to invoke sadness.  I wish he
would show more restraint or find a less obvious way of expressing the
same
emotion.Don't get me wrong - I liked the movie well enough to give it a 7 and
gladly
recommend it.  A bit of trimming would have made "Saving Private Ryan" a
much better film though.

******
13 November 1999
9

First off, I should preface my comments by saying that, although this was an
excellent film, it isn't for everyone.  The intense, graphic, "in your face"
nature of the presentation will be too much for some viewers to
handle.The opening sequence is extremely well done.  I was literally shaking after
seeing the horror which faced those involved in the D-Day assault.  The
camera angles, combined with the gritty, high contrast filming, give the
whole film a documentary feel.  Unlike other war documentaries, Saving
Private Ryan manages to pull the viewer deeply into the
action.My only negative comments relate to the underlying premise for the movie,
which seems rather far-fetched.  I also felt that in some cases the special
effects exaggerated things a bit more than they should have.  But those are
minor faults, in an otherwise top rate film.

******
13 November 1999
9

I seriously doubt that there is anything I can say about this movie that has
not already been said. I felt that it was one of the classic war movies I
have ever seen. The direction was brilliant. In fact, I would say that was
the number one asset. Secondarily, Tom Hanks was great and so was the
intensity of the action - almost unparalleled.I nitpicked on a couple things - as I am prone to do, but the main reason I
didn't give it a 10 was simply because, like Schindler's List, it was too
depressing. I will never give a depressing movie a 10. Now, don't get me
wrong. I didn't think it was THAT depressing, but the fact that 8 men set
out to bring back one and that most of the 8 (I won't say how many in case
you are the only one who hasn't seen it.) die trying to bring him back is a
formula that I have a hard time with emotionally. Interestingly, the movie
deals with that very subject and allows us to develop our own
opinion.Be warned, however. There are lots and lots and lots of dead soldiers and
lots and lots and lots of dead soldier's parts.

******
13 November 1999
8

This film is possibly the most overrated war film ever! True it boasts some
of the most spectacular special effects ever, but the story is too
unbelievable, the characters paper-thin and the whole thing is littered
with
continuity errors. Special effects alone do not make a film, remember
Independence Day?

******
9 November 1999
8

Perhaps it is in the nature of war films to be devoid of a sensible plot
and
realistic script; call me old fashioned, but these are important
considerations when reviewing a film.  That is not to say that I
necessarily
consider this to be an inferior war film, but rather that it is not the
complete war film.  This is a Spielberg film, and it plays to his
strengths,
with magnificent special effects which bring to bear the inherent nakedness
of war.  I couldn't help but be, for wont of a better word, shell-shocked.
By preserving the film in this form, almost as a documentary, Spielberg
would have been onto a winning formula from the cinematic viewpoint
(although perhaps not from the bank balance viewpoint).  Unfortunately
Spielberg did as Spielberg does, putting into place a script and
moralising undercurrent, both lacking in any sort of subtlety, which might
work well in films like Jaws or ET, but serve only to blunt one's reactions
to the raw images of the inhumanity of war.In sum, I consider this to be a visually astonishing and moving film, but
one which is ultimately impaired by the banalities and simplicity of the
screenplay.

******
8 November 1999
10

The main thing that I realized when this movie reached it's conclusion was
that there was many occasions of irony. Now if you saw the movie, you should
be able to tell what I'm talking about.Besides the irony, the beginning scene was horrific in the gruesome sense,
but true to life to the smallest characteristic. Whether it was people
loosing limbs from a grenade while hiding or someone being shot down with
numerous bullets while running away, you almost thought you were watching a
real war scene.It was also touching in numerous ways. One way was that you got so
emotionally attached to some of the characters that searched for Private
Ryan. When they were killed off for one reason or another, you couldn't help
but get a tear in your eye. And if you didn't, you obviously aren't part of
the human race.So if you think that this movie is just another shoot 'em up war type movie,
you'll absolutely wrong! It has a fabulous story line to go along with the
life like war shots. A definite to watch and to own. GO NOW!


******
8 November 1999
8

When is the life of one man, greater than the life's of 8. This is one of
the issues raised in Steven Speilberg's great war epic " Saving Private
Ryan".Set during the D Day invasion it follows 8 soldiers led by Captain John
Miller (Tom Hanks) who must venture behind enemy lines in order to find and
retrieve Private James Ryan who's 3 brothers have been killed in action.There are many who have said that this film includes to much gore and over
the top violence, and in some way I must agree. In any war not everyone will
have parts of their bodies blown off, but equally the film is trying to
destroy a myth that so many have that in some twisted way war is glamorous.
The majority of war films will simply have a soldier shot and fall to the
ground with a minimum of blood lost, if this were the case then there would
not have been so many soldiers who returned from wars minus limbs.This film deals with many of the human aspects of war, similar in certain
ways to " The Thin Red Line ", soldiers are expected to obey orders without
thought or question, no matter how impossible or crazy the orders may be.A solid cast hold this film together for 2hr 40minutes, with Tom Hanks well
cast in the role of Captain John Miller and Mat Damon as Private James Ryan.
Each and every one of the main actors in this film will stay in your mind
after you have seen this film, and is because of them and Speilberg that
this film is as good as it is. I feel Speilberg has dealt with a strong subject with the same level of
sensitivity which was shown with "Schindler's List " it maybe painful to
remember, but equally it is important not to forget the past or the same
mistakes could be made again. No one should ever have to go through another
war like that.If you are looking for a film with a strong story line, then I can think
of none better than this, I don't think there can be a person alive who
after watching this film will not look upon war in a completely different
light, and remember the sacrifices which were made.

******
6 November 1999
8

The sad thing about this movie is the way the story takes
a backseat to the gratuitous and often unrealistic level
of violence. Previously to seeing this I had heard a LOT
about how overblown the violence was. I've read several
letters in the newspaper from actual WWII veterans who
said the movie was unrealistic; and one of my co-workers
(who just happened to be a First Lieutenant in Vietnam)
also said that the violence was "overkill". Watching this
movie, I really got the impression that Spielberg was just
using the story of Private Ryan as an excuse to make an
extremely bloody war movie that every one would go see
because they had heard that it was more gory than
"Braveheart". You'd really think that no one died in 1944
Europe unless they were exploded or had their guts blown
out, or were decapitated, or disemboweled or something.
When Tom Hanks pulls his radio guy over and his face was
gone, I was like "Oh please, give me a break!". This was
much more of an action movie than a war drama. I thought
that "The Thin Red Line" was a much more thoughtful and
dramatic movie that didn't rely on such copious amounts
of
violence. It was a far better picture. As was "Full Metal
Jacket", and "The Deer Hunter", and "Platoon", and
Apocalypse Now" etc., etc.

******
5 November 1999
9

Indeed.We've glimpsed at the hell our parents and grandparents had experienced.
Only that we are able to turn it off, they could not.Listen to the letter Gen. Marshall reads. Throughout the movie, I was
reminded how weak and fruitless any words of consolation to the overwhelming
loss and grief Mrs. Ryan, however fictional, or historically inaccurate she
may have been, must have felt upon her notification of her sons' deaths.
Watching helplessly these men die, many not even having the opportunity to
make peace with themselves, was a sobering and harsh statement that we
should never forget the sacrifice they willingly made.I may have spent a few sleepless nights replaying scenes where people die
needlessly, yet it would be borderline slap in the face to even suggest that
I can begin to understand what these men have gone through, and their loved
ones as well.We should allow ourselves to be easy to forgive. But we should never, never
allow ourselves to forget the ultimate gift our parents and grandparents
gave us, to be always thankful that we have the happiness and comfort of
freedom that we sometimes take for granted.

******
4 November 1999
10

I remember very good my feelings when I first saw the soldiers standing in
the landing boat at the beginning--if I were born 40 or 50 years earlier, I
could've been standing there myself, and I could feel the horror all of
those men must have felt.A lot of people call this film too US-centered, but I thought the film did
every soldier in WWII justice. There were no good or bad soldiers in it,
just poor fellows in one of the worst possible situation a young man can
find himself in.I could identify with every one of the guys in the platoon. If I would been
forced into military service now, I would end up like  Tom Hanks'
character.Someone wrote that the movie praises the USA for fighting good wars by
showing the star spangled banner at the beginning and the end. Well, I
didn't understood it that way. Could one really be proud of a country, who
forces his young men into such a hell?

******
3 November 1999
10

Being a World War II historian and after talking to many veterans of war
myself and after having served in the Air force for four years, I can
appreciate a film like Saving Private Ryan.  This is war as it is.  The
bravery.  The stupidity.  The loss.  Nobody ever wins at war, you just hope
to survive and get back to your family.  There's plenty of 'guts' in the
movie and I'm glad hollywood finally has the guts to show this, and war as
it is.  I don't like the ultra-violent action films made now, but this
violence has a purpose.  What 150,000 Allied troops went through on June 6,
1944 cannot be experienced first hand, but this film comes close.  Just
think, Steven Spielberg gets us off of Omaha Beach in just twenty minutes.
For those who actually participated, it took them from 06:45 hours until
well after 12:00 hours.  That's around 6 hours or more.  Just think of what
hell that was for those who landed on Omaha Beach that day which will be
remembered as the LONGEST DAY.  Spielberg couldn't have assaulted us with 6
hours of combat footage, so he did the next best thing:  'e got us off the
beach on the quick.The story itself is deep in history, not just of WWII when they mention the
story of the Brothers Sullivan who died on the same ship in the Pacific,
but
also mentioning Mrs. Bixby's loss in the Civil War which is also a
cornerstone of the plot.  Think of the sacrifice real people make on the
homefront when they send their loved ones off to war.  This sacrifice cuts
to the core of the story.  Should we sacrifice all of one woman's
off-spring
for God and Country?  No is the resounding answer.  An answer that tells us
that sometimes one common man is as important as the world
entire.Private Ryan lives a good life.  That's what he must do.  Many men lost
their lives so he could have his.  So who does Private Ryan represent?  One
man in the war machine.  One man to whom the war machine sacrificed an arm.
Private Ryan represents you and me.  Many men sacrificed their lives for
us.
Many people sacrificed their loved ones for us.  Now we must all be like
Private Ryan.  We must all lead a good life.Saving Private Ryan reminds us of this sacrifice.  That is why this movie
is
a must see.  Ninety-percent of US have never been to war.  Ninety-percent
of
US don't know what war is, really.  Ninety-percent of US need this movie to
have a taste of what war is.  Ninety-percent of US need this movie so we
may
know the sacrifice made for our freedom.  One hundred-percent of US need
this movie so we appreciate our freedom.Thank you Steven Spielberg.

******
1 November 1999
8

I started watching this film and after 5 minutes I was thinking what rating
I would give this film and five minutes into the film I was thinking "10".
The scenes of graphic violence (limbs missing etc.) considering the amount
of violence on our screens today was truly horrific and made even my stomach
churn. But somehow it wasn't enough, somehow it didn't make war seem as
pointless as say Platoon, where the Drill Sergeant really made the men feel
like worms but it was for their benefit. But this film did not either lift
me at the end nor leave me flat out on the ground in the end it was an
"8".

******
28 October 1999
9

"What?" people ask me, "You liked Saving Private Ryan Better than
'Schindler's List'?"There are many reasons why I feel "Ryan" is a superior film.First look at it from the technical aspects. These include Directing,
Cinematography, Editing, Sound, Sound Effects Editing, Lighting, Set
Design,
and so on and so forth. Don't get me wrong, "List"'s technical aspects are
great, (that breath taking black and white cinematography) but "Ryan"'s are
just superior.Now look at it from the acting point of view. "Ryan" is not only a
great technical movie but an excellent acting film too. I'm not talking
about just Tom Hanks alone; it was the supporting characters being lead by
Hanks that really did it for me. And Jeremy Davies as Corporal Upham, when
he kills that German, that is one of the three times I've cried in a movie.
"List"'s acting is very good too, but it is so many people that it is hard
to get attached to a character. "Ryan" had a nice concentration of
excellent
performances, and you came to identify with all the characters that didn't
die in the first scene.This got ten out of ten stars for me.

******
28 October 1999
10

I saw this movie twice in the theater and I didn't think that was enough to
really do it justice.  The difference between TV and the big screen are
almost immeasurable and Spielberg has a master on film.  I felt as if I
stormed Normandy myself.  I remember my grandfather telling me stories, but
this... No offense to him, but this takes the cake as far as World War II
goes.  It gave me chills.

******
27 October 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan (1998) C-169 min. D: Steven Spielberg. Tom Hanks, Tom
Sizemore, Matt Damon, Edward Burns, Jeremy Davies, Ted Danson, Jake Busey.
Realistic war drama begins at D-Day and continues through the story of an
expedition to find the last of four brothers that have been killed in the
war. Incredibly gory, but very true-to-life. Everyone involved delivers
terrific performances, especially Hanks. RATING: 9 out of 10. Rated R for
graphic violence, some language, and adult themes. 

******
22 October 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is one of the top films of the decade.  It is the best
war movie to come along since Full Metal Jacket.  The acting is superb.
With his performance Tom Hanks once again proves that he is one of the best
actors of all time, putting in one of his best performances.  It is
extremely accurate with not even the smallest details being ignored.  Steven
Spielberg is yet to produce a bad movie.  The violence in the movie was an
absolute necessity, making it more powerfull than any other war movie or
drama for that matter.  It is a tragedy that it lost to Shakespear in Love
for best picture.  No question it was the best movie of the year.  It is a
true tribute to the veterans of World War 2 and gives them the respect they
deserve for laying down there lives for America.     

******
19 October 1999
9

I remember, as a kid, watching films like "The Wild Geese", "The Big Red
One", "The Great Escape" and "The Dirty Dozen" among many, many others with
my dad. Now I've got a son (only 4 years old at the moment, so a bit too
young), I can picture my self a few years down the line watching this with
him on tv. Letting him stay up late to see it, maybe.Whereas I watched all those old films as a kid and went straight out with
my
toy machine gun with my friends and played soldiers, this film would
perhaps
have caused me to consider the futility and senselessness of war. Then
again, I'd wager that it probably would not have, as there are so many
memorable moments that I would have loved to have replayed in the
playground. My personal favourite is Tom Sizemore and a german soldier
throwing their helmets at each other, having run out of ammo, but these
moments come along at a steady rate.I know that some people will appreciate the film as a whole, but hate the
modern day beginning and ending. I know it's a bit corny and flatly played,
but the idea is spot on for me. Just like Schindlers list, you see what
saving one life leads to, and why it is worthwhile.When Tarantino was promoting "Pulp Fiction", he did an interview with the
BBC here in which he said he would love to make a "men on a mission" movie.
I'd love to see it, but maybe Private Ryan has put him off. I hope
not.

******
17 October 1999
10

I thought Saving Private Ryan was a very excellantay WWII movie. Steven
Speilberg was great. i am yet to find a movie that he has directed that i
didn't like, besides E.T. Anyway, the story was great and the never ending
action never bored me. I really advise watching it, if you can stand the
blood and guts.

******
15 October 1999
10

This is one of my all time favorites because not only is it just a drama but
it has everthing else great acting, special effects its all there good theme
music steven spielberg really knows how to direct. Tom Hanks gives one of my
favorite performances of all time it is a truly memorable performance. Dont
miss this masterpiece.

******
13 October 1999
10

   I saw Saving Private Ryan with some trepidation.  I saw it late, and on
the small screen.  I knew about the initial half-hour, and had read the
criticisms of the film from the right and left of the political spectrum. 
It seems all the "political" reviewers didn't like it, and I was prepared to
be disappointed.   All I can say is "wow!".  Saving Private Ryan is one of the most gripping
films I have ever seen.  Gripping in the sense that it grabs you and doesn't
let go.  You belong to it for the almost 3 hour running time; you can't
think of anything else, you can't leave.  This is a film you will be
thinking about for days afterwards.  It is a must rent, a
classic.
  
  But, if you have lived in a cave for the last two years and haven't heard,
the film is highly graphic in its depictions of battle, and is not for the
faint-hearted.


******
12 October 1999
10

One of the greatest war films ever made, since All Quiet on the Western
Front appeared on the big screen.  The direction and cinematography are
outstanding.  People can say what they like about Spielberg but this film
and Schindler's List puts him up there with the greats.

******
10 October 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan managed to do to me what only a combination of
action/drama/comedy movies can do. It kept me at the edge of my seat in the
intense battle scenes. The acting was genuinely good. The graphic nature
was
only excessive in the very first battle scene (it was not necessary to see
the guy screaming Mama with his guts out). Otherwise, no other movie has
been able to show me the intense horror and the gravity of war. The
soldiers
did not have romantic deaths like in most other movies about World War II.
In American history, I thought only Vietnam was horrific, but this movie
surely changed that picture. It is one movie that I absolutely loved, but I
don't think I can tolerate seeing it one more time. I am not American and
have no relatives who fought in WWII, so I cannot relate, yet I can feel it
through this movie. The only other war movie comparable to this one is
Glory. This is one movie definitely worth seeing. If you don't like it, you
probably missed something.

******
6 October 1999
10

This movie is so great! Just everything is great: image, sound, acting,
directing, light, special effects, colors, storytelling, everything. I've
seen SPR twice. I hope this movie will be a lesson for other
directors!!!

******
5 October 1999
6

What a great movie, but what a horrible, horrible manipulative beginning and
end flashforwards sequence. It was bad enough in Schindler's List, but at
least there you had real people in the flashes. Here it's just old actors.
Putrid. Bad! My wife was incoherently angry at the dishonesty of the first
flashforward. Couldn't he do any better than this rehash technique? Doesn't
he trust us to understand the (painfully obvious) point that the ending
makes? Cut off those hack-worthy five minutes and you have one of the
greatest war movies ever made, but with them on there, you have an insulting
"6."

******
4 October 1999
10

I loved this movie.  Not for Tom Hank's Oscar worthy performance, for the
riveting tale, or for the shocking realism.  Nope, I loved this movie for
the actors.  I think that as a whole the cast did an incredible job
filling
the shoes they were given.  First and foremost, was anyone else absolutely
taken by Barry Pepper as Private Roy Jackson?  Ever since seeing this
movie
I have been glued to my computer watching his fan website for updates on
magazine articles and Barry sightings.  This guy is one to pay attention
to,
he is definitely going to be big.  Those cutting eyes say it all.  Second,
Giovanni Ribisi.  His sleepy stare combined with his sensitivity make any
one swoon.  This isn't just a phenomenon for Mr. Ribisi, either.  In every
other movie he has had a major role in, he has taken over the screen.  How
about Edward Burns?  Granted, he does play a New Yorker with an attitude
in
almost all of his films, but he does it so well we can forgive him for
that.
This cynical beauty of a guy plays the quintissential smart mouth that we
love to hate, and love to love.  I wouldn't mind being the butt of some of
his cutting jokes. And how about young Vin Diesel who plays the ill-fated
Private Adrien Caparzo.  Though he doesn't make it very far into the
movie,
he makes a great impression.  I don't know whether I can't get past his
great body or his heart melting voice.  And then there's Adam Goldberg.  A
talent to be reckoned with.  This guy plays the good smart allick.  The
flip
side to Edward Burns' biting character, this one is the nice-jerk.  I just
hope that Goldberg doesn't get type-cast as the token Jewish guy.  It
would
sure be a shame, this guy can work the camera.  And what about Jeremy
Davies
who played Umpum?  I find it hard to comment on him.  It is largely due to
the fact that I can't bring myself to like him.  It is not his fault, he
was
only playing a character.  Was anyone else out there screaming mad when he
made it through the final battle?  I would have traded him for Wade
(Ribisi)
or Pepper (Jackson) any day.  And was anyone else ready to burst into
tears
of sorrow when we had to bid farewell to both our luscious, silent but
gorgeous types?  

******
3 October 1999
8

And Washes Ashore.Here you have two, not one movies, at the price of one. The Masterpiece, is
the opening half hour, and the final half hour battle in the bombed out
town. In between, we have Sgt Rock characters, with some trendy gore and UN
style stereotypes.Its essentially a B film with mass amounts of $$, FX expertise and
speechifying thrown in. I always am leery of any film that presumes to
'Tell
us what WAR is really like'-that is crap. The only way to REALLY tell it as
it is-would be to simply stick a camera crew on Omaha Beach or in
Stalingrad
at the time, and let'em roll; guts and all.That's it. Here, we have Forest Gump trying to be John Wayne(nice try, but
forget it-no way) and a bunch of 20 something directors like Ed Burns
pretending they are grunts. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. I
like
the intention of the movie, to show how horrible it all is, and etc.-but
the
way the film was marketed-its producer telling us its not 'John Wayne up
the
beach'-that was nuts.Sure guys, it was TOM HANKS AND STEVEN SPEILBERG up the beach, complete
with
SAM MALONE FROM CHEERS inland to recieve them. Gimme a
break.You want a realistic war film? Try 'the Big Red One' or 'Platoon'; and the
first 30 minutes of this one, too. Skip the rest, it's just a jacked up
episode of Combat, without Vic Morrow's credibility and with old Mr. Gump
there....Two ratings: For the Landing sequence and the final battle:
****.
For the stuff in between: **. Try again, Steve.

******
28 September 1999
10

The best war-movie ever made! The shots are so realistic
át the beginning, that one really feels like he's in the
middle
of the battle. It made a real deep impression on me and it made
me more realise what sacrifices of young men had to be made to liberate
europe from the nazi terror!!!!


******
25 September 1999
9
Saving Private Ryan is an over-whelming thought provoking film which
takes the baton from Platoon as the standard for war movies. Not that
it is necessarily better, but it certainly raised the bar in technical
achievement and graphic violence.Another winning combination of Janusz Kaminski and Spielberg, the
technical achievement of the opening act (D-Day invasion) is worthy of
all the praise and awards the movie garnered. Spielberg again shows us,
as in "Schindler's List", his unique way of depicting violent death as
something that happens to real people, not simply a cool effect to rid
the plot of bad guys. This 25 to 30 minutes of the film is one of
filmmakings all-time great achievements. Spielberg's real genius in his "serious" films is his knack for
allowing us to enter inside and feel the chaos and emotions. SPR,
Schindler's, The Color Purple and even Jaws surround you rather than
hit you in the face.There is a line spoken by one of the soldiers shortly after they
receive their seemingly inane assignment to rescue one man: "This Ryan
better be worth it". A sort of prophetic statement that to me commented
on the man, the mission and the film itself.A great film, for sure, but not perfect, and certainly not worthy of #7
on the IMDb top 250. The script is a little too clean and clever for a
bunch of kids thrown into combat, and it so, so violent and depressing
that it is physically exhausting. I feel that after the stellar and
gut-wrenching opening act, SPR never lives up to the standard it sets
for itself.However, if the opening and closing acts are even 1% accurate in their
depiction of combat, then this movie should be used as war deterrent.Not Spielberg's best, but certainly a noble film and a technical
watershed in movie making.***1/2 out of ****.

******
22 September 1999
10

I believe that Saving Private Ryan is a movie that every American should
see.  It is a movie that will blow your mind.  Steven Spielberg and Tom
Hanks have teamed up to create the most authentic war movie of all time. 
This movie has unbelievable action sequences, a really good script and
jaw-dropping cinematography.  This film has my vote as the greatest of all
time.  Also, I don't worry about it not winning the Academy Award because
everybody else outside the Academy seems to agree that Saving Private Ryan
was the best movie of 1998, and got the most positive reactions from
movie-goers.

******
22 September 1999
10

Every once in a while a movie comes along and sets a new standard for the
class.  In this case "Saving Private Ryan" has achieved that place in two
areas: the "war" movie and the "human condition" movie.  On one hand "Ryan"
does not mask, shield, or taint combat in any manner from the viewer and
lets the experience of war happen in all of its stark reality.  I have a
feeling that any movie depicting war will use "Ryan" as a model from now on.
The strongest message that the movie sends is that in war there is no
motivating sound track and people do die horribly, without mercy, and often
without reason.  Drowning in eight feet of water within reach of the beach,
applying a bomb that goes off prematurely and having no effect on the
target, being shot by an unseen sniper, are all displayed without glory or
the indication of some greater purpose being achieved in the end.  What is
left are those alive and those that are dead and those that are alive must
live with the horror of what they have been though.But, the really great "war" movies are not really about war, but are really
about how people react to an extreme condition that they are faced with.  In
this case "Ryan" moves from one gender to another without the viewer
realizing it.  Much has been said and written about the battle scenes in the
movie and far too little has been said about the emotion between the squad
of soldiers and how they feel about trying to rescue someone they have never
met.  In the countless movies I have seen about the same basic topic this
one tells the untainted truth about this emotion.  The soldiers do it
because they are ordered to but like every American soldier, marine, sailor,
or airman that I know, they don't like it and they will let everyone know
about it.  But beyond that the film also shows the American combat soldier
as they really are: crass, vulgar, dirty beyond belief, prone to raw humor. 
But where this film excels is the depiction of why they are how they are:
long days of stress, fatigue, danger at every moment, living moment by
moment.  By the time the troops leave the beach and the horror there, the
viewer accepts their condition and forgives their behavior and manner.  Even
the word "forgives" is bad word to use.  The film generates the emotion in
the view that these troops have "earned" the right to behave in any manner
that they please.  They have paid for that right 1,000
times.But the humanity prevails in many ways, some large and some small: the raw
emotion when one of their squad falls in combat, the sharing of gum from one
mouth to another, the group resentment of those who have not been through
the hell that they have been though, the appreciation of a piece of music
that will relieve them of thinking of their situation for only a moment.  It
is these moments in the film that elevates the movie beyond a regular war
film into a classic that other films will be measured against.  I have seen
"Ryan" four times now and it has not failed to generate a strong emotion in
me every time.  There are no heroics in this film.  There is only an
accurate display of humans, placed in a situation that is beyond belief, who
do things because they have to, not because they want to, and to they best
they can without reward or commendation.  Their only reward is
survival.

******
20 September 1999
6

Very impressive battle scenes but ultimately the movie left me with the
feeling that I was watching two flicks -- the first a very realistic account
of war; the second an attempt by Spielberg to create a kind of "Apocalypse
Now" (or "Heart of Darkness") version of World War II as the main characters
stand around and talk about how surreal war is on their journey through the
French countryside in search of Pvt Ryan.  The beginning and ending scenes
at the graveyard also struck me as
silly and preachy.  The D-Day landing by itself is enough of
a
reminder of what the world owes the men and women who fought and died in
WWII without Spielberg Making Sure that We Don't Miss the Point. 


******
16 September 1999
10

I have never been moved by a movie as much as Saving Private Ryan. I think
this movie should be seen by all Americans to show what price was paid for
our freedom. I have a renewed respect for our flag and Memorial Day. The
opening scene is the most intense 20 minutes of film I have ever
witnessed.

******
12 September 1999
10

This is a good film, don't get me wrong, but its plot wasn't developed to
the point of caring.  The movie seems to rely on the violence like a crutch.
 The characters are boring and winy, although I would be too if I had to
risk my life for someone who doesn't want to go anyway because he's a "good
guy".  The final thirty or forty minutes of the movie almost makes the whole
thing seem like a waste of time.  It's a good movie, but could've suffered a
much better plot.

******
12 September 1999
10

"Saving Private Ryan" is one of the most unforgettable movies that I have
ever seen.  This is very close in that respect to "Schindler's List". 
"Saving Private Ryan" is the only movie that I can think of that actually
made me cry in the theater.  I remember almost everything about that night. 
I remember sitting in a Metro Detroit movie theater watching "Saving Private
Ryan" with some friends on opening night.  My favorite memory of that night
is when the movie ended.  There was an older gentleman sitting in front of
me and to the left.  While the landing at Ohmaha beach scene was concluding,
he was sobbing a great deal.  When the other soldiers were joking about the
term "fubar" he was the only one in the theater who understood it and he
laughed loudly.  When the old man salutes the flag he cried again.  He sat
through all of the credits, as did I.  When he finally got up, he was
wearing his uniform from WWII.  That is who this movie was made for.  It was
made so that we would always those brave men who died for our benefit.  It
was made to educate us.  This movie should be viewed.  It is too powerful
not to.  Steven Spielberg did a superior directing job on this film.  This
is the BEST movie of 1998, and possibly the best of the
90s.

******
8 September 1999
8

This is the best movie I've ever seen.  Not only because of it's story, but
because it was acted very well.  They made it look very realistic when they
were fighting, and when they weren't fighting.  I commend the actors for
their great performances.  Another thing that is great about this movie is
that it never really died at any part and it always kept you wondering what
would happen next.  Also, I really enjoyed the score written by John
Williams.  It is, in my opinion, the best score ever written for any
movie.There really isn't anything bad to say about this movie.  It was very
disappointing to see that this movie didn't win Best Picture, Best Actor, or
Best Original Score at the Academy Awards, which, I believe, it deserved. 
For those who haven't seen it, go rent it.  It's definitely worth
it.

******
5 September 1999
10

The most realistic WWII movie ever is the best war movie ever made! Steven
Spielberg has shown us once again why he's born to be a director. With
Saving Private Ryan, Spielberg showed us all why "war is hell". Watch it
and
you'll always remember how great this film is!

******
2 September 1999
9

This is a movie that is so realistic that you may find it difficult to
watch.  It is possible to get so emotional that you want to close your
eyes
or cover your ears.  But you don't.  You are drawn into the film like into
a
miniature black hole.  [By the way, does anybody know what the D in D-Day
stands for?  The answer is at the end of this review.]There are so many other well-written reviews of this movie that I am going
to keep this short.  I have a question though.  Does Tom Hanks ever star
is
a bad movie?  The answer is no, providing that Steven Spielberg
directs.This is a exceptionally good and realistic war movie.  My father served in
World War II, but it was difficult for me to realize his sacrifice.  Not
after this movie it isn't.  It is so vivid that there might be a new
warning
label coming out.  Perhaps something like, ED (Watch out!  Can cause
emotional distress if you were there.)  The almost noiseless sound of the
bullets hitting soldiers or sand is unforgettable.  Perhaps even haunting.
It is not difficult to understand how some veterans sought professional
help
after viewing Spielberg's latest masterpiece.Well, I guess you have waited long enough.  Nobody should have to actually
read one of my reviews.  The D in D-Day stands for Day.  I had trouble
believing my father when he told me that.  Yes, and the H in H-Hour stands
for Hour.  See this movie if you dare.

******
30 August 1999
9

Astounding action scenes, the best ever seen. 
However its one and only flaw is the "americanisation" of the war defined by
the shots of the stars and stripes flag. What was he thinking? An
outstanding film dragged into the depths of "Independence Day" and
"Armageddon" as America saves the world.
Such a pity.


******
25 August 1999
10

If the Pentagon and the U.S. Army could honor this film, how could this
film
not be recognized as the best of 1998?  This is more than a movie.  It is
an
incredible experience and a grim reminder:  of how horrible war can be,
and
the sacrifices that were made by those who fought for us to be free.
Thank
you Steven Spielberg for making this film.

******
24 August 1999
8
Tom Hanks is excellent and his character is wonderfully developed,
while the action sequences are second to none. But ultimately "Saving
Private Ryan" is like so many war movies I saw as a kid, regardless of
how well rendered. The opening scene (after the shlocky frame) as they
storm the beach at Normandy is pretty awful. You get the sense that a
nation shows its resolve by how many of its young men it is willing to
sacrifice. Just throw the bodies out there. In Kosovo we held that
number to zero. Such a lovely way to fight a war. In WW II the number
was, however many it took. Says something. Spielberg makes this point
with the wide-angled shot of the channel filled with Allied landing
craft and support vessels for as far as the eye can see-a scene
incidentally right out of Frank Capra's seminal series "Why We Fight"
to which this film is indebted whether Spielberg knows it or not.World War II was a war so horrible and so all encompassing that to this
day we really don't understand it or comprehend it. Spielberg thought
he was being "objective" in showing war "as it really was," with
Americans murdering prisoners and vomiting from fear and dying like
cattle without a chance (something Capra of course was not able to do).
Yes, but to show the "saving grace" of individual valor is to
perpetuate the war system, because that valor is a fraud. It was not
the bravery of our soldiers that won the war. Just as it didn't matter
how brave or how cowardly the soldiers were in the landing craft, it
was the sheer volume of them that prevailed.I think as long as one believes that individual heroics amount to
something we will have war. Spielberg no doubt thinks he has shown us
the horror and waste of war, but while plying the trade he knows so
well (seducing the audience) he has trumpeted the glory of war, that
old fraud, and so he is just like the rest of the proselytizers, only
more skillful.Still it is impossible to say what is right. If we had not won WW II
the world today would be vastly different. Totalitarian, imperial,
repressive, racist regimes in which the state tortures and enslaves the
people would have prevailed. They may have nuked one another by now and
we could be living in the rubble of a bestial existence. Who knows?
Thank God for the United States and its incredible industrial capacity,
because that is what won the war, not individual heroics, much as our
tribal minds, along with Spielberg's, would like to believe such fairy
tales.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)

******
23 August 1999
10

I loved this movie!  It was one of Steven Speilberg's greatest films that
he
has ever done.  Just the way that his trademarks were so visible, it was
fantastic.  The start  was nothing that I had ever expected.  I was
told how real it was, but I just couldn't believe it.  It was like he was
actually at the beaches on D-Day filming the battle.  He didn't hold back
on
anything in the way that the battles were done or how real he showed the
shots and the gun fire.  I was almost getting sick because of the D-Day
battle.  He was having them get shot the second they opened the doors for
them to get off the boat.  Anyways, I think that Steven Speilberg is a
fantastic director and a brilliant human being.  And it is displayed in
this
film.

******
20 August 1999
10

Good acting, gut-wrenching scenes,realistic historic events,and Oscar
nominations. All of these things add up to one name, Steven Spielberg. One
of the greatest directors of all time. If you don't agree with me, than why
is it that a good percentage of the movies that he's directed so far have
been nominated, or in some cases have won the Oscar for Best Picture.  Even
if they're nominated, and don't win, that just means it pretty much cleaned
up a lot of the earlier Oscar subjects.I still don't see why Shakespeare in Love won for Best Picture. In my
opinion, Saving Private Ryan should've won. 

******
20 August 1999
6

The first forty minutes of this movie were some of the most visually
stimulating film ive ever seen, but it slacked off in the end.  Spielberg
is
an amazing director, but that didn't cover up the poor acting, and the even
worse plot.  If spieberg didnt feel the need to succumb to corny endings
and
famous actors, this could have been a much better movie

******
19 August 1999
10

Normally I do not like war movies, but I watched Saving Private Ryan and
loved it! It deserves to be among  the top 250 movies. The story is loosely
based on a true story of The Sullivan Brothers. There were five brothers
that were all put aboard a ship, the ship sunk and they all died in the same
day. Imagine how devastating that must have been to that family. Because of
the Sullivan Brothers there has been a law passed that siblings cannot serve
on the same vessel. 
	My father -in-law was a pilot and the only son during the Korean war.  He
was a volunteer! His plane crashed on U.S. soil. My husband is the soul
survivor and he was then seven months old. My mother-in -law heard the news
on the radio. Imagine how devastating that must have been. My husband makes
miniature model airplanes.  We have quite a collection of those cute little
planes. Every airplane is well researched as my husband goes to National Air
and Space Museum in Washington, D.C.  He is very interested in the Pacific
Theater - a war buff!  He also corresponds with several veterans. It is
really adorable. He loves war movies.  I tend to fall asleep watching them,
unfortunately,  but I try to stay awake and understand. We have a good
collection of famous war movies, educational videos etc. I purchased Saving
Private Ryan along with a very romantic movie, because I thought: I am sure
that I will doze off! But no! I watched the entire thing and loved
it!
	Let me tell you why I loved it: (1) There is no unnecessary use of curse
words. They are used properly there are no exaggerations! I watched  "Full
Metal Jacket,"  I know that those guys curse but every word in that movie is
"F word!" I hated it. (2) Then the painted faces. They scare me to death! I
know it is a form of camouflage but I still get scared. That is what scared
me the most in "Apocalypse Now"  and "Platoon." (3) I understood the story
in this movie and it is moving. It is nice story telling. Going back in
time. Private Ryan being such a nice person makes the movie even better!  I
liked two war movies so far,  this one and "A Midnight Clear." I must
understand the point. Just plain violence does not cut it! People say but
that is how war is. Well, I want to be wise about what is good, and innocent
about what is evil.  I can only take so much. I did not have to go to war.
It is just a movie. I do not want to be traumatized all at once in one
movie!  (4) I don't like the over emphasis on the use of drugs in movies
like "Platoon"either. There is nothing like that in Saving Private Ryan.
That is why I love it!
	My favorite scene: at the end of the movie cemetery, the camera pans and
there are all those white crosses:  I felt that we are all Private Ryan
because those soldiers fought for our freedom. Most of us enjoy such freedom
undeservingly. But they died for us all.  My favorite quotes: " All four
were in the same company, but after we split them  after the Sullivan
brothers died on the Juno." Ryan: " Tell her that when you found me, I was
here and I was with the only brothers that I have left".


******
17 August 1999
10

In a cinematic masterpiece as realistic and wonderful as this one, why
would
a continuity error of such magnitude escape not only minds of audiences
but
even editing? The opening scene where the later-revealed elder title
character visits the graveyard sets the rest of the movie as a memory.
There
is only one small problem; Private Ryan was not at Omaha beach, and
therefore could not have possibly remembered, let alone piece it together
in
such horrific detail. A fact that leads this reviewer into utter
disbelief.
How can such a huge mistake make it's way into an otherwise solid
film?

******
15 August 1999
10

The shock of the opening scene is so overwhelming that you don't realize
how
far into the film you are when it is over.  Tom Hanks is a truly fine
actor
who makes you wish he were your neighbor, your teacher, your friend.  The
portrayals of the young men in the squad are well done without resorting
to
melodrama or stereotype.  The action and special effects are so good that
in
many moments I almost believed I was there in combat with those men.  What
an outstanding tribute to the veterans of World War 2.  A wonderful
complement to Schindler's List.

******
14 August 1999
8

Alright, this one definately one of the best films of 1998, and contained
some of the most harrowing, frightening, and realistic battle footage ever
filmed. Now I saw it the day after it was released, before ANY hype had
touched this film. This film was so over-hyped, it became sickening. Another
thing that's so annoying is that people are calling this "the greatest war
or anti-war movie ever made."  It is may be one of the best, but is isn't in
the same ballpark as some of the others. This film is meant to show the
horrors of war through battle and carnage. Yes that is one way to show it,
but the more "anti-war" style to show it is to show more humanity and
suffering, like "The Killing Fields" (the best anti-war film) or "Born On
the Fourth Of July" (even "Platoon"). But because of hype, it has the look
of an action blood-and-guts type of film. The video stores are categorizing
this under ACTION. ACTION. The film had a weak script, but still a story to
buoy the film, and an annoying, overly patriotic, beginning and ending,
which did play a toll on the film. For a second, you might even think it
glorified war. But nevertheless, it is mostly overlooked because of the
intensity        But these people who call this "the greatest war film ever" complain
about this year's other war companion "The Thin Red Line." it was so
different from this, taking a different and interesting approach to "war is
hell" and was a great film, but obviously, flopped. Thank god hype didn't
kill that. But nevertheless, this is still on my top 5 list of 1998 and is
worth a rent.

******
9 August 1999
10

Anyone who comments on this movie as being "too graphic", "lacking in
character development", or as having "scenes that could be cut" is missing
the entire point of the movie.  While we sit here in the 1990s, in a comfy
movie theater watching a fictionalized version of the horrors of the taking
of Omaha Beach, there were hundreds of young men barely past high school age
who had to LIVE IT.  To say that a scene was too graphic is to belittle the men who had to
witness it first hand and did not have the option of turning off the VCR or
leaving the theater.  Sometimes, a movie is supposed to make us think.  Sometimes things are not
always laid out for us--we have to pick them up ourselves.  And finally,
bravo to Spielberg for making one of the few truly honest war pictures ever.
 War is not pleasant.  It is not about this super-human nobility and clean
victory.  No matter which side "wins", everyone loses. This movie made me think long and hard about what people my age (20) had to
go through just 50 years ago.  When I saw this film in the theater, I was
surrounded by members of the WWII generation, and I could see in their eyes
that this was almost too real for them.  The ability to create a movie that
makes a 20 year old girl in 1999 feel like she was at Normandy in 1944 is an
epic talent that should be cherished.  "Saving Private Ryan" is beyond a 10.
 Anyone who doesn't see that should really watch it again.

******
9 August 1999
9

It obvious this is a great movie that I don't even need to talk about. The
fact that Shakespeare in Love won best movie over SPR is absurd! SPR shows
all of us that have never been in war the psychological and physical
hardships our national heroes endured. This movie helped fathers and sons
understand each other. Shakespeare is a good movie but that's all it is. SPR
is a historical masterpiece that will be shown every Vereran's day so that
future generations will understand what these men did for their country.
Let's see who remembers Shakespeare in 2 years.

******
8 August 1999
8

This movie is worthy of the Oscar acclaim that it received.  The opening
D-Day scene will turn your stomach with cinematography that seems to come
very close to reality.
 
   I read one comment that said, "Sure, it depicted what war is like, but we
all know what war is like already."  What a  slap in the face this kind of
thinking is to the men and women who have actually stood in the line of
fire.  No one can know what war is like, unless they've actually been there.
 If you have never experienced war firsthand, and the good lord willing,
will never experience it, then this movie may be the closest thing in
depicting what it would be like.     As far as the movie's premise, I took a class in college once called
"Modern War and Morality".  In this class we pondered the same issues that
are discussed by the soldiers in this movie.  In one scene, Hanks says every
person that you kill, you have to consider it 20 lives saved, at least he
says, that is how you have to think.  Some people would call it
rationalizing an irrational act.  Well, this movie is full of these
philosophical dilemmas.      And while I have heard some people call the bookend gravesite scenes
corny and unneeded, I think they add a great touch to the movie.  James Ryan
could be any WWII vet, reminiscing on gruesome times, and great friends and
relatives lost.

******
6 August 1999
7

After making such inexcusable trash as The Lost World, Spielberg just can't
be taken seriously (neither can Tom Hanks, after
Forrest Gump), no matter how hard he tries. And in his most recent attempt
at redemption, he doesn't succeed in the slightest: He
simply cannot refrain from being the typical Spielberg with his
heavy-handed, lofty and ultimately sappy direction. The
problem here is not the film per-se, it's the fact that he tries to pass it
to us as Reality :the supreme truth about WWII. In fact,
not only there are many visible historical and strategic inaccuracies, but
most importantly, the human interaction is injected
with familiar Spilbergian fakeness I coudn't help noticing. The dialogue,
aside from a couple of obligatory f-words and a few
explicit sexual references, feels at least fifty years old, when the
Hollywood Character Actors went about delivering grand,
all-important speeches, and witty , crowdpleasing lines. Sorry, Steven, but
if you wanted to "keep it real", you should've cut
down on melodramatics or better yet, hired a different screenwriter. The
soldiers suffer from a lack of character
development, and remain nothing but polished stereotypes, their emotional
responses not always justified. If all the obvious false-note subplots that
make this a Spielberg vehicle would be removed (Hanks' trembling hand, the
German prisoner's hysterical clowning, one of the privates' "symbolic"
confrontation with the enemy as a Jew, and so on), SPR's level of realism
would have been consistent enough to allow for it's now-classic
status.
The main reasons to view this film, of course, are the two Battle
Scenes,
enveloping the story, (much like in the Wild Bunch). Only here, instead of
using Peckinpah's now-cliched slow motion
violence, the scenes are shot in real-time, or even speeded up slightly to
an amazing effect. John Williams, thank god, quiets
down for the duration of both scenes and lets us listen to the actual sounds
of war without any musical interference. The
first scene, the Storming of Omaha Beach, is so tension-packed, exciting and
simultaneously terrifying, that it could well be
the best of its kind. The last one,(a small group of men versus a veritable
army - hmmm,where have I seen THIS before?) is
almost as good, if not for the cheap Hollywood trick at the very end, which
finds the movie venturing into Indiana Jones
territory. It almost seems that SPR was directed by TWO different people:
Spielberg and his WWII battle consultant. On the very primal level, however,
the film achieves at least one of its makers' many aspirations: when I
exited the theatre, I felt
lucky to be alive. 

******
5 August 1999
10

This film made me consider the sheer brutality and terror of warfare in a
way I had never done before. It did this by placing me in the middle of the
battle while at the same time enjoying the comfort of a cinema seat. I
realised in a way I had never accepted before the horror of the D-Day
landings, and the courage of each and every man who didn't just lie down and
play dead as soon as they (and if they) set foot on the beach, which is
probably what I would have done.It made me think in a way that no other film has done. I cam,e away reminded
of the sacrifice that was made so that we can live in freedom today. It
reminded everyone that WWII wasn't the neat and tidy war that it sort of
gets remembered as. I was moved to tears, and I'm not even an American (the
Brits landed too, by the way).But that small issue aside, this film made me think more than any other film
has ever done; not just a war film, but any film. It is, to me, the most
important movie ever made.

******
4 August 1999
9

This movie has been criticised for the large amount of violence in it. But
I
think the violence is necessary to point out what a horrible thing, World
War 2 really was. The story is great, and we must all pray that a terrible
thing like this, must never ever happen again.

******
3 August 1999
10

I saw this movie the day it opened not knowing much about it beforehand. I
was really blown aray. This was without a doubt, the most realistic
portrayal of war I've ever seen in a movie. The D-Day re-enactment alone is
one of the most powerful scenes ever put to film. This movie is the flip
side of those glamorized Hollywood John Wayne movies from the 40's. And the
scary thing is, as real it it looked, it's still probably not as real as it
actually was.I'd never seen an audience so silent leaving a movie theater before. I left
that theater with a new appreciation for the people who fought and died in
World War II. I recently gathered up the courage to see this movie a second
time when it came out on video and it lost none of the emotional imact it
had on me the first time. A true mark of a great film. In the summer that
gave us "Godzilla," "Armageddon" and "The Avengers," this movie was a breath
of fresh air.

******
1 August 1999
7

Maybe the best movie in the last 2 decades. "saving private ryan" really
shows you what war is really like. But I WOULD NOT recommend this movie to
the squeamish. Is it just me or is this very very very realistic violent?
This movie puts an aspect on what other movies like The Thin red line (1998)
and some others just couldn't pull off. Lots of dead bodies but honestly i
say the best movie in a very long time. 9/10

******
31 July 1999
10

Fantastic from start to end. Speilberg had a master plan with this film that
complements Shindler's List. The story, the acting, the graphic realism,
non-stop action intermeshed with brutal irony...one could go on. Despite
criticism of Corp. Upham, he could have done little else, being a
noncombatant humanist who was deluded by being civilized in wartime.
Speilberg wished to show the unimaginable cruelty, horror, and pain suffered
by all who were caught in the entire holocaust we call WW II --and he
masterfully succeeded. 


******
29 July 1999
7

I gave it a 7, which was a compromise between the absolutely excellent
effects and the absolutely lousy plot. It could've been less, but hey, you
have to see the famous first minutes even with such a typical dumb-hollywood
scenario.

******
29 July 1999
10

Wow! What can I say...This is truly Spielberg`s masterpiece. It  will take a
lot of effort to to find any significant flaw in this epic. It is a real
disgrace that it was not awarded "Best Picture" at the Academy Awards. One
of the outstanding aspects of this film, is that despite it`s realistic
description of war as hell on earth, it clearly points out that the
sacrifices  was not all for nothing. Democracy and freedom must never be
taken for granted.
I give it a 10! See it today, and buy a copy on VHS tomorrow.


******
29 July 1999
10

War is an ugly, brutal contest in which humans actions speak louder than any
words.  This point has been made to me time and time again by combat vets
who have related thier experiences to me.  Soldiers do not speak in
metaphors, do not act as if they have P.H.D.'s in philosophy, and do not
wonder what the last artillery barrage meant to the world at large.  They
worry about themselves, thier buddies, thier families back home.  They smoke
to break the long periods of boredom and to relieve the tension of the few
moments of the most extreme stress any human can face.  They talk about
getting sleep, hot food, a good, long bath with soap, and clean underpants. 
They worry constantly in the cold, wet winter climates of getting trench
foot and/or frostbite.  And they worry about malaria and dysantary in the
hot, wet summer climates.  In the end, the combat soldier wants to get the
job done, go home, and try to forget.  All these factors were captured
brilliantly in Steven Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan".  Never has a more
realistic war film been made.  Only Steven Spielberg has the clout to break
away from the Hollywood formula of heroics (or the Hollywood formula of the
"art" war film) and present war, in this case World War II, in all it's
brutal ugliness and do justice to all combat vets.  Although the story in
"Saving Private Ryan" is excellent, it is apparent that the story is not
that important.  It's not so much what is said between the soldiers but what
is seen.  This is a very visual film and perfect for Spielberg as he is a
very visual director.  Tom Hanks is perfect in the role of Captain John
Miller, a perfect portrayal of the "everyman" combat soldier, someone who
can as easily be believed as a teacher in Pennsylvania as being asked to
carry a Thompson sub-machine gun and kill Germans.  Tom Sizemore as Sgt.
Horvath, Captain Miller's tobacco chewing NCO, is convincing as a combat
soldier who knows his tactics and is the work horse leader of the squad. 
Sizemore is also able to give the impression that he knows his tactics
because he's learned the hard way.  Which is one of the subtle underlying
tones of the film, that none of the G.I.'s in the squad is a professional
soldier.  They all know what they know about tactics and survival because of
hard experiences.  No other Hollywood war film I can think of has ever
captured this idea, the idea that American G.I.'s are, by and large, citizen
soldiers who are tasked with performing a job and going home.  For those who
doubt that this is the most realistic war film ever made, allow me to quote
the answer of an American World War II combat vet who, when asked what was
it about "Saving Private Ryan" that brought back the memories, he said "the
sound of the (German) Tiger tanks.  I don't know how Spielberg did it, but
the noise of the Tigers moving around was exactly what it sounded like.  You
never forget that sound."  There is no poetry in war.                       


******
24 July 1999
10

This the most unforgettable war film I've ever seen.The depictions of the
horror of war and what is did to our brave soldiers with always linger
with
me.The battle scenes were so brutally vivid that I thought the director
had
built a time machine
and when back in time filmed the battle scenes as they
happened.
Profound and haunting are the adjectives that come to mind in this film
and
it's images will linger long in my memory.

******
23 July 1999
10

Steven Spielberg's most unforgettable film. It is the most realistic war
film ever made. Saving Private Ryan provides the most accurate and
heartwrenching portrayal of war at its worst. The first 20 minutes will
draw
tears and sorrow as the viewer finds his or herself as just a mere
spectator
of what brave men had to torment during a quest for world
order.I loved this movie. I give it 10 out of 10.Wouldn't it be great if this movie was on DVD?

******
22 July 1999
9

Usually war films don`t appeal to me, but Steven Spielberg's latest
hype-drenced film, "Saving Private Ryan", did look like a remarkable film,
so I watched it. I have to say, from beginning to end, I could not take my
eyes off the film for one second, it was absolutely compelling, almost in a
a surreal way. I have never seen such a film as this one, Steven Spielberg
triumphantly proved to the world once again after "Schindler's List", just
what a phenomenal director he is, it totally baffled me how he could of
crafted such a physically and emotionally complicated with virtual
flawlessness. There are two major battle scenes , one in the beginning and
one in the end, and they are both extremely harrowing. The first one burns
with unflinching realism, you almost feel like you`re right there with the
soldiers instead of watching them on a screen. It shows just how terrifying
the war really was, every form of anihilation and destruction is captured on
film. The second one is a bit more sombre, mainly because the audience has
gotten to known the main characters, and after witnessing some of their
deaths, our feelings and sympathy and sorrow are evoked. The performances
given by Tom Hanks, Ed Burns, and the rest of "the crew" (Forgot their
names, but are all enormously talented) are all exceptional. They all have
diverse personalities, but when they put in serious situations, we
powerfully sense their shared emotions of instinct, terror, longing and
grief. "Saving Private Ryan"'s power comes mainly from it`s clear moral, as
it proves just how tragic the war really was, and the devastating impact it
had on the world and humanity. The story may be fictitious, but the movie
still enables us to have a pretty good idea of the savage violence that
rampaged the earth during the wars, all while asking the ulimate question;
Was there any reason AT ALL why this had to happen? It was a question that
lingered in my mind for days afterwards. "Saving Private Ryan" is a truly
extraordinary film.

******
21 July 1999
6

First of all, before I get to my complaints, let me say that this is a
fairly well-made, entertaining movie.  Spielberg puts together a good flick,
though I still maintain he has not achieved the status of Hitchcock or
Kubrik.  The battle scenes were fantastic and by far the most realistic that
I have ever seen (not including The Thin Red Line).  Anyone who thinks that
Normandy was a glorious day should watch this film (which depicts the
landing of the U.S. Army Rangers near Omaha beach, one of the most hellish
fights in army history).  And I do have to say that the cast was one of the
greatest ensemble casts ever made.  The scene where Hanks reveals who he his
to stop a quarrel is just fantastic.Now, having said that, this is NOT the greatest war movie ever made, as some
have proclaimed.  For one thing, I just find it patently ridiculous that a
platoon of soldiers would be sent deep within enemy lines to save one guy. 
Maybe that kind of stuff happened, maybe not, but I find it very
implausible.  Unfortunately, a movie with a bunch of guys roaming the
European theatre fighting Germans would have been worse.  Another thing -
one more role with a pompous Tom Hanks and I will vomit!  He's a good actor,
to be sure, but jeez.  And Matt Damon's performance did not impress me
either.That's my story and I'm sticking to it :)

******
18 July 1999
10

What's interesting is that we have a meeting of the war movie minds with
this film.   SPR has attracted the John Wayne/Audie Murphy fans with the
realists aka. Coppola/Stone/Kubrick lovers.   Both camps will find fault
with this movie, but an open mind will really appreciate what Spielberg
achieved with this film.   The action in the first half-hour is top notch.
You will not find action of this kind in any war movie to date.  Now we
come
to the plot.   War films and plots are usually blurred or non-existent
(unless they are non-fiction/attempted true to life films).   In this case
we have a fictional story with a plot.  Compared to Platoon and FMJ, this
movie HAS a plot.   The movie has peaks and valleys, as do most films.
That is how one builds a climax.   The hype of this film has jaded many to
believe that you can achieve 2 hours and 49 minutes of intensity to match
D-day.  Spielberg captures peaks and valleys of soldier combat.   It's
intense battles with a lot of boredom.to sum it up:Patton: better character developmentPlatoon: uses personal experience to judge a period of time, too much bias
to show one side of Vietnam.  Deer Hunter makes Platoon look weak.FMJ:  Characters a bit disjointed, realistic combatThe Longest Day: a puff piece, the only redeeming aspect is the German
perspective.A Bridge Too Far: weak screenplay for a true to life drama, a good war film
nonetheless


******
14 July 1999
9

I have only just seen this film on video for the first time and I must say
that I regret not having seen it at the cinema (but after sitting through
Schindler I was loathe to get an uncomfortable bum for a little bit more
Spielberg self glory and pomposity).  Except for a jingoistic 'America is
the greatest land in the world' kind of attitude - I thought that this
film
stood head and shoulders above any other film of this genre and literally
shot down The Longest Day as my classic WW2 movie.It is, as has been pointed out repeatedly in these comments, a very fine
and
realistic seeming drama.  OK so the plot is thin and intentionally narrow
minded but what Hollywood movie isn't at the moment and It was refreshing
to
see the characters in the film moaning about how ludicrous and shallow
their
mission (and therefore the plot line) was, but in Ryan, the weak plot is
it's grace.  The sheer waste of life and time hits you very hard and it is
the documentary of war-time which comes at you like a screaming fury and
provokes a huge emotional reaction which (I'll wager I'm not alone) had me
discussing WWII,  20th Century politics and war in general for quite a few
days.Yes, it may have been based on a real-life story.  Yes the historical
representation may have been unnervingly accurate.  Yes the Omah Landings
did prove costly (the artillery bomardment and armour landings failed to
materialise - Not surprising from the American Armed Forces.)  and yes, a
great number of very brave men died.  What got to me though was the huge
pointlessness of the fight.  Who was actually saved?  Ryan - certainly not
emotionally.  The war-torn lands of France - not in the film.  The
American
or even, come to that, the poor German soldiers who had to obey orders
which
did not take into account their humanity - not if the ketchup was anything
to go by.  Not even Hanks, Spielberg et al were saved the misery of Shakey
in Love picking up their beloved Oscars.But the direction of the piece,  the cinematography, the initial landing
scene (grainy and with fantastic sound and visual effects) will stay with
me
for a long time to come.Spielberg has once again shot up in my estimation and it was pleasant not
to
have his own insecurities and pats on the back so prevalent in one of his
films.  I even hear that the next "Jews during the war" movie (The Betty
someone Story) may not even be directed by him but may go to the Bard
Branagh instead. But here he has at last come of age in the realms of
adult
drama and serious film-making.

******
14 July 1999
10

This is not a film for the melancholic.Sure it has great special effects. There's more blood and guts to be found
here than in your average war movie, and if you've become accustomed to
watching NATO missions on CNN or on the 'net this might just bring to mind
the fact that in war there is suffering, no matter what the technology
used.
In this respect, the sound effects are particularly poignant.But there are two scenes in particular which brought me a cold sweat. In
one
a German soldier, and in the other an American, find themselves in a
situation where death at the hands of the enemy is now inevitable. For
each,
the only remaining option is to beg for mercy, and hope that their
communications are understood. But what brings out pathos in the viewer
wins
little understanding from these soldiers. Therein lies the most gruesome
message of all; in war these men have lost the ability to treat others as
humans. This contrasts sharply with what we learn of their private lives
prior to the start of the war.The cinematography is excellent. Just as the beach scene (filmed in
Ireland)
receives acclaim for its realism, the scene on the bridge is filled with
tension as the soldiers await the arrival of the tanks. It's "High Noon"
with Tom Hanks in the role of the sheriff.Private Ryan plays little role in the film. Perhaps this is why some
commentators have said the film lacked depth. They wanted to see how Mrs
Ryan was feeling at home. To them I say "go watch a Lassie movie"


******
14 July 1999
10

The war's heroes are losers, because generally they die.
Steven Spielberg shows exactly the horror of the war, and how a decent and
simple man, can change in a killing machine just for finding and saving
private Ryan, the last son alive...
The man won his cause (he found and saved private Ryan), but he
died.
Did it worth??

******
13 July 1999
9

I finally saw SPR on video last night. What a valiant attempt by Spielberg
to realistically depict the sacrifices of the allies during the Normandy
invasion and its near aftermath! This is almost a great movie. I had
trouble
hearing some of the dialogue, and granted some of the scenes seemed a bit
trite, but mostly this film succeeded. I'm also sorry that Blacks and
Hispanics were not included. Yes, the Germans were portrayed as being
brutal, particularly Steamboat Willie, but on the other hand there were
also
scenes where Americans ruthlessly shot surrendering Germans. It just goes
to
show that war really is hell!None of the comments that I read here focused on the Lincoln letter which
General Marshall quotes by heart in the early part of the film, and later
incorporates into a final letter to Mrs. Ryan. I found this to be
extremely
effective in establishing the overall theme, which was the sacrifice of
our
fathers (grandfathers, uncles, etc) on the "altar of freedom." In the end,
it was not the brutality of war, but the self-giving sacrifices of the
WWII
generation which is the main point of SPR.

******
11 July 1999
7

We live in an age where war is not fashionable and
Old Glory has not the respect it once did.  This
movie begins and ends with a shot of the American
flag looking as if it had been washed in hot water
instead of sent to the dry cleaner.A woman has three sons killed in action virtually
simultaneously.  Army policy is that, in such a
situation, the sole surviving son - Private Ryan -
be discharged.  Unfortunately, Ryan parachuted
behind German lines the day before D-Day.  The
Army Chief of staff meets with his wogs. Some seem
concerned about bad PR if all the sons die.
Some see the rescue mission as suicide.This may be a violent "war" movie but it is also
a story about the decision to do what is right -
saving Private Ryan whatever the cost may be.War is a duplicitous adventure.  Men do good
things for bad reasons and bad things for good
reasons. Sometimes its hard to tell the two apart.The lead character, played by Tom Hanks, tries
to do what is right.  In the "fog of war" some
die and some good is done.  Maybe that's what war
is all about.

******
9 July 1999
9

I loved Saving Private Ryan for many reasons, but mainly because I'm an
History Freak (I love to learn about the past) and Spielberg made an
excellent job at recreating what WWII was really like.  It makes you think
twice before "starting a war"

******
9 July 1999
6

"Saving Private Ryan" has several very intense and touching scenes. The
first half hour is, for instance, a movie classic already. However, having
not seen this movie on the big screen I guess I don't look upon these
thirty
minutes the way many other people do. For me they are only intense -- like
so many scenes in so many films.On the whole, "Saving Private Ryan" is far from a masterpiece. It is very
well-made and rather interesting, but not much more. I still enjoyed it
though, even if I think "Glory" and a few other films are much better war
movies.And as for the Academy Awards this year, I consider it to be a scandal
that
"Shakespeare in Love" won the Best Picture award, SPR is at least somewhat
better than that film, it's just as strange as the fact that Edward Norton
didn't win the Best Actor award.So, this film is far from a masterpiece, but I still appreciate the fact
that SPR is well-made and interesting.

******
9 July 1999
10

This war movie is probably the best anti-war movie ever made.  As a combat
veteran with some major time spent making war, I think that this movie
does
a better job than any other I have seen to show the reality of
combat.

******
8 July 1999
10

This is one of the greatest movies I have ever seen.  If there was any
doubt
that Spielberg is the greatest director of the late 20th century, this
film
removed it.  During the Oscars I was pulling for "Shakespeare in Love" to
win best pic, however after seeing this film I have to repent of my sins.
This film was the best movie of 1998.****Warning this film is graphic**** so if you don't like violence I would
not recommend it, but if you can take such violence then I would highly
recommend it.Tom Hanks is at his usual best, Matt Damon does a good job as well, and
even
Edward Burns is okay (I do not like this actor as he takes himself way too
seriously).What else can new can be said.  Go see this film.  You won't forget it.


******
8 July 1999
10

I'm only 12, and my mom didn't like me watching Saving Private Ryan-
because
of all of the graphic violence. But just think about it, this film was so
realistic, I'd see what happened sooner or later in a film in school.
Except
the fact that what I'd see in school would be what REALLY happened.It also shows that you may be at war with a country- but you don't just
wanna kill. It wasn't just like the United States sent in some bad ass UDT
team of 8, and whooped Hitler's army. People actually died from the U.S.,
and they showed them on the beach of Normandy just laying there while
being
shot at from machine guns on hill sides. It just didn't seem chee-z
compared
to like some Delta Force movies I've seen, where a guy is left behind, so
they jump 50 feet into a helicopter throw the guy out and luckily they
have
rope, or the tie something to the yoke to make it not move and they go
down
and rescue 'em. Or someone gets shot in the chest once and dies, while
some
other dude gets shot like 50 million times and ends up beating the other
side.

******
7 July 1999
10

This is without a doubt one of the best war films ever made, and how the
hell Shakespeare in Love won Best Picture over this is
beyond me.The opening scene on Normandy is definitely the most realistic
battle scene ever captured on film. The gut wrenching effects
and the horror in the faces of the soliders are endearing
images in my mind that I'll never forget.How some people can say the performances are weak is absurd.
Tom
Hanks gives one of his best, as with Ed Burns. I've also heard complaints
that the movie falls apart after the opening scene, with which I disagree.
The plot develops nicely and it did enough to keep my attention until the
the battle at the end in the abandoned city, another very realistic and
well
done scene.I give SPR 10/10. If you aren't affected emotionally by this film, you're
probably dead.

******
7 July 1999
10

My mom would tell me, "Your grandfather was a paratrooper in World War
II."
I never had any idea what she meant.  However, after seeing this movie, I
now realize the hell that my grandfather went through as he fought for our
country.  Steven Spielberg perfectly portrays the pure horror of war and
why
it should not be viewed as an action packed event.  I was somewhat
astonished while I viewed this movie, as many men never even made it to
land.  The acting is great, and the war scenes are perfectly, I mean
perfectly, done.  I never got to meet my grandfather, as he died of cancer
shortly after I was born.  I now realize how brave he really was, and I
view
him with a lot more respect than I once did.

******
6 July 1999
10

The soldiers of the United States army have fought for this country with
great courage, honor and commitment.  Because of these soldiers, we live
in
a peaceful world.  These men were brave.  They are heroes.  They have
served
this country with great pride.  What is the point of risking the lives of
eight to save one?  What is the point of saving any at all?  Is your life
worth less than the life of someone you've never met?  These soldiers
fought
to save our country, and our freedom from the people that try to take
those
away from us.  They fight so that they can save the lives of others.  We
are
the others.  To the mother that has lost 3 of her 4 children, her last
surviving son is in that category.  These soldiers fought to save one man.
That was their duty.  As captain John Miller said to his soldiers, "If
that
gives me the right to go back to my wife,"  he knew it was his duty to
save
this man.  His job is to save as many lives as he can and one life of
private Ryan should not be ignored.  I gave this movie a 10 out of 10, and
only 2 movies have got this rating on my list.  This movie, "earned," this
rating.

******
6 July 1999
7

When I got to the theater to see this "Saving private Ryan", I hadn't
yet
seen "Schindler's list" and thought it was pretty good and that it would
win
a lot of awards at the Oscars.  However, after having seen "Schindler's
list", I understand why "Saving private Ryan" did not win best picture of
the year."Saving private Ryan" is closer than a cool action movie than a heavy
drama like "Schindler's list".  Sure it's good, but it isn't the best
movie
of the year.  I think that perhaps if Spielberg had cut out more of the
action and gory scenes and had concentrated more on the fact that Mrs.
Ryan
would like to see her last son come home, it probably would have been a
higher and better quality drama than it actually is.Although the opening on the beach of Normandie on D-day is pretty well
shown, I think that there were a couple of scenes that could have been cut
for example one of the soldiers looking around for his arm in a pile of
others or the other soldier trying to keep all his intestines inside his
body.All in all, it's a very good movie but it isn't even close to being
nearly as good as "Schindler's list" (which probably explains why "Saving
private Ryan didn't win best picture of the year).


******
4 July 1999
10

The reality of war has comprised of nearly one-hundred movies during
the
past century, and no one in that time frame has been able to make it as
real
as Spielberg did in, "Saving Private Ryan". All of it was true. The death,
the destruction, the horror. Everything.The movie is quite remarkable. For nearly three hours it showed the
basics and specifics of how the Allies and Enemies went at it in WWII.
The
enormous amount of losses at Normandy were all that sparked me in the
movie.
That is where I started remembering who was on that beach at the time, or
who made it, or who didn't.The entire cast conducts an incredible performance. Hanks and Burns
shine, Damon and Sizemore strike the screen with their emotions and
thoughts, and Spielberg again amazes the world with his hard work and
dedication toward the movie industry and the history of the
world.


******
3 July 1999
10

My granddad was in World War II under many of the same circumstances as
the
characters in the movie. Seeing the movie really helps me appreciate what
he
went through. I really can't say enough good things about this movie! Tom
Hanks
should have gotten best actor and the movie should have won best picture.
I
can't believe so many people on this site gave it one star. I don't know
what movie they saw, because the one I saw was spectacular! This is a must
see! Beautifully directed, wonderful cast and a very emotional story.
Don't
miss this movie!!!!!

******
30 June 1999
10

I was surprised with this (American)war-movie. This is no
common
american:We are so good and the germans are so stupid and
evil.
It really catches the horror of war.I see great similarities with the
German
"Stalingrad"(1993).I found that "Ryan" was much better than i had
expected.I
must say; it's the best war movie I have ever seen!

******
30 June 1999
9

I guess you all know what it's all about, and you've heard about how real
it
is.Well, for me, it came across mostly as very realistic although the Omaha
Beach landing was more a gorefest than great cinema. This might have been
intentional, as the purpose probably was to shock the audience with the
full
horrors of war.Still this scene doesn't "do it" for me. Why? Because I've read so much
about the D-Day and WWII that I know people died in droves (literally) on
the beaches that day, such as they always do in war, only this was on a
much
greater scale. That same scale what is working against the scene because
we
don't know the characters involved and we do know that those we
recognise(Tom Sizemore and Tom Hanks for instance) will make it safely
ashore as they have to go and find this paratrooper schmuck named Ryan. It
is a good scene though, just not all that it was claimed to
be.Ok, ok, I've rambled on about the landing, how about the rest of the film?
Well, it starts off a bit slow, to allow the audience to get their breaths
back from the opening 20 minute blood bath and to introduce the main
characters to the audience. We are also introduced to the films moral
dilemma, is it fair to risk the lives of nine men to save one, just
because
his three brothers have already died? What price are we prepared to pay
and
for what exactly are we willing to pay that price? The message is further
emphasized by the losses incurred on our small group of heroes as they
traverse the French countryside. The whole mission seems like a suicide,
especially as nobody knows wether Ryan is still alive at
all!And it's the final battle scene that really makes the movie for me.
Because
now it's man to man, you know the characters involved and you can see the
fear in their eyes, and you can see the same fear in the germans'
eyes.So it's really gritty and intense, and Spielberg has managed to capture
all
this with a really stunning and up-close photo. The cinematics are
incredible, the shots are long with few cuts, just like in the old David
Lean movies (Lawrence of Arabia, most notably). All this combines into
one,
long and really breathtaking battle. It would probably have been easier to
start a real war and film that one instead than to shoot this battle
scene.
When I came out of the theater, my condition could only be described as
"shell-shocked".Sadly, this is a movie which will lose a lot if seen on a TV. But see it
anyway if you haven't seen it yet.

******
25 June 1999
9

I, like many young people had a grandfather that was in the war.  I know
he
faced death many times but I don't know how many times or any of the
details
of his ordeal in WWII.  He wouldn't ever talk about them, not even to my
mother or her sister.  Sometimes I could never understand that, but now I
do.  If this is really what it was like to be a soldier, no matter what
war
you are fighting, then it must be an incredibly difficult ordeal to drudge
up memories that are this disturbing, this vivid and this real.  I have
never been to war and I hope to God that I never have to experience war,
but
after seeing this movie I believe I can tell you at least what it may have
been like.  This movie is that vivid and that honest.The first half an hour of this film is some of the most amazing direction
I
have seen in any film in my entire life.  I have even read that Spielberg
toned it down some.  That is hard to believe knowing what is up there on
screen.This film is brilliant in every capacity.  The direction is so clear and
crisp that you feel like you know these men when the film is over.  You
feel
like you understand the war a little better than you did before.  The
acting
is terrific.  And not just Hanks and Damon, but everyone from Sizemore to
Ribisi to the grunt that gets his guts blown out ( take your pick as to
who
that is. )I can't believe a film like Shakespeare in Love, a film that could have
been
an after school special, was chosen as best picture.  Best picture?  Over
this?  How is that possible?  If you haven't seen this ( and there aren't
many of you out there ) please do yourself a favour, see it tonight.  It
is
such an amazing film and it is one that I will never forget.A final note:  Even though my grandfather has been gone for about 8 years
now, I salute him and every other guy that put it on the line and did so
because they believed in what they were doing.  I have a new understanding
and appreciation for people like my grandfather.  And that a film could
make
me feel that way is something special in itself.

******
23 June 1999
10

I grew up believing that the greatest silliness the Academy ever managed
was
naming Annie Hall "Best Picture" for 1977.  The Academy Awards are trivial
in the grand scheme of things, true, but when The English Patient swept a
few years back, I allowed myself to be pulled back in.  This brief period
of
interest in the Academy came to an abrupt end, however, last March.  Not
only was Ryan stiffed, but the Best Picture Award went to not even the
next-best film.  Shakespeare In Love pales next to Elizabeth, let alone
the
greatest war movie ever made.  Yup, from now on I'll let my heart and head
guide me...to hell with lists.
This, of course, is not the greatest lesson one may glean from Ryan; in
this
age of reckless exposure it is truly satisfying to hear Tom Hanks say that
the memories he has of his wife are his alone.  Some things need to die
with
us, otherwise our lives are mere vehicles.  Don't think that this movie
falls to long, distancing reflections about intangibles--that was The Thin
Red Line.  Everything here is grounded in the mud, blood and rusty
mechanisms of war.  That Ryan anchors itself so firmly, yet still evokes
such beauty is its greatest gift.  Maybe that's what we have been looking
for in war films all along...an angel that greets us during the
massacre.

******
18 June 1999
7

Here it is: a movie that demands to be seen on the big screen- amazing
fight
sequence to start the movie. It may not always be 'real'- movies just
can't
be- but there is drama and intensity. Some good and solid performances,
terrific sets and sound overcome the plot and some belabored
dialogue.

******
18 June 1999
10

This movie is what being an American is all about!  It showed us just how
proud we should be to be part of such a great country and to love, honor,
and respect those who fought so we could be born and be loved by the
people
who were meant to love us.  This movie is a perfect 10 and then some!  God
bless America!!

******
15 June 1999
10

This is the best war movie ever. It has to be one of the most powerful
movies ever made. The D-Day re-creation at the beginning of the movie is
the
most stunning sequence ever to be put on film. I still have no idea how
Steven Spielberg was able to pull it off. Tom Hanks turned in a great
performance as the leader of the troop. The whole supporting cast was
excellent, all worthy of an Oscar nomination. Along with "Schindler's
List",
Spielberg has made the two best movies of the 90's. Movies like "Platoon"
and "Apocalypse Now" showed what it was really like in Vietnam. But now
there is a movie that shows what it was really like at D-Day and WWII. It
was robbed of a Best Picture Oscar.

******
14 June 1999
7

No film in 1998 was more hyped by critics than this film. The First 30
minutes of Saving Private Ryan does not disappoint. The editing, sound and
camera work are so energized (combined with graphic violence) that the
sense
of being in battle is more real than any film I have seen. Also, Spielberg
is the first director to use the grotesque violence of the Coen brothers
and
Tarantino  in a war movie where it actually feels more natural. All of
this
makes for some very thrilling moments. But while Saving P. Ryan is a
technical tour de force its script is not of the high standard as the rest
of the film.The main story (let's find our guy) is routine for a war film. So, the
development of the characters is very important to make the movie work. In
this regard Saving Private Ryan for the most part was mediocre. I did not
feel connected to most of these characters. There was too little dialogue
for them to be real. Many war movies deal with the squad under pressure.
Eight Iron Men (1952) comes to mind as doing a better job of showing how
people cope with this.Saving P. Ryan also presents us with the horrors of war. The best movie to
confront this subject is Apocalypse Now. Saving P. Ryan by contrast to
Apocalypse Now seems to have its morality upside down. The most
interesting
character in the film, the interpreter, learns that the best thing to do
with prisoners is to shoot them. There is no adequate comment on this
brutality in the movie.The effectiveness of a final scene is essential for a high quality film
and
the one in Saving P. Ryan falls apart. The emotion shown by the actors
works
but the dialogue makes little sense as the final message of the movie.
Because the film almost ignores the big picture about why we fought World
War 2, it tries to make some sense of the loss of so many lives on an
individual level, by private Ryan himself. This cannot be done. The
justification of war, if any, is a cause for the greater good; i.e. ending
slavery or stopping the Nazis. There is no other way to make sense of war
and Spielberg should have used these issues.Saving Private Ryan got what it deserved at the Oscars; the award for best
direction, editing and some technical awards. It is very well made but has
a
script with too many flaws.


******
12 June 1999
9

I must say that when Saving Private Ryan came to the cinemas, I wasn't
compelled to go see it. I usually avoid films that have hoards of lemmings
camping out to see it (read SW Episode One). Pvt. Ryan had been on the
video
shelves for a few weeks before I picked it up. I wasn't really looking
forward to YAAWF (Yet Another American War Film).This film is absolutely brilliant filmmaking. If Speilberg had not made ET
and Indiana Jones, he would not have had the creative control to make a
masterpiece like this. He reminds me of Hitchcock at the height of his
powers in the late 50's early 60's.This film is riveting from beginning to end. Every scene, every shot,
every
sound has meaning and is seamlessly integrated with the overall artistic
vision of the film. I have a degree in Film Criticism and have seen a lot
of
film. You quickly become jaded by formula after formula.Speilberg has created a fresh approach to what could be considered a tired
genre. The hand-held, chaotic filming of the Omaha Beach landing along
with
the sizzling soundscape make this sequence one of the best in cinema
history. The point, however, is not to bombard the viewer with gory war
scenes for shock purposes. It is a setup for the rest of the film. You are
never at ease at any time for the rest of the movie. They payoff for this
setup is the sequence towards the end of the film in the battle to hold
the
bridge.One beautifully crafted sequence (of many) is setup in the opening
sequence
crossfade from the old man's blue eyes to Tom Hank's shaking hand at the
Omaha landing. That crossfade is a film convention that Speilberg subverts
for dramatic effect. When you see the final crossfade from Pvt. Ryan's
face
to the old man's face (beautifully done) it comes full circle. This
subversion of a typical film convention is what makes Tom Hank's final
scene
so incredibly moving. You'll know what I mean when you've seen it.Speilberg has gone beyond technical mastery of film, he has become a
consumate artist, using his film making skills with intelligence,
sensitivity and confidence.

******
10 June 1999
10

True the pre-release publicity this movie does not glamorize war nor does
it
pull any punches.  For anyone who has never been to war this is a perfect
example of what it is really like.  For those of us who have been there
its
like going back there.Hollywood has done veterans a great disservice by trying to
make
war look glorious and something to be desired.  But as
Private
Ryan shows, war often provides individuals and groups the opportunity to
rise to their finest moments while at the same time showing their darkest
sides.War is not something to be sought after and Spielberg shows that lesson
with
great clarity.  My hearfelt thanks to all the people that participated in
the production of this great movie.  I hope that it goes down in history
as
a great classic.

******
8 June 1999
9

My god!
I just saw this movie and I'm still shaking. It shows WWII
like it seemed to be. I wasn't there at the time.
I've read all the reviews about it and one thing sprung to mind...When Soldier Upham has the Germans under fire, he shouts a few things in
German, and their Captain calls out Upham's name...
Do they know each other?
Still... true horror and all credits to Mr. Spielberg,
Mr. Hanks and Giovanni Ribisi.A true **** out of ****

******
7 June 1999
10

I spent 26 years in the military, participating in more than one
altercation
with the "other" guys, and I never saw action more realistic than this.
Beyond being an almost perfect "war" movie, Spielberg has made the perfect
anti-war movie. 

******
6 June 1999
9

It's true, the first 45 minutes is the best part of the movie.  The movie
loses some of its realism later, starting with that ridiculously accurate
shot by the American sniper to the German sniper.  Then, during the last
battle scene, the Germans look like they are TRYING to get killed.  They
don't hide behind stuff, but instead just run at the Americans.  And Tom
Hanks should play professional football with that incredibly accurate arm.
Every one of those mortar shells he threw killed somebody.As for the demonization of Germans in the movie, I didn't see it.  Many
critics point out that "Steamboat Willy, toot toot" guy was an ungrateful
b*****d and he was the only attempted German character development.  The
thing is, I didn't see him as evil and I don't think I was "supposed" to.
He begged for his life, which is normal of anyone who thinks he is going
to
be killed, and he was released.  So he ran into a German unit instead of
an
American one.  They gave him a new rifle and sent him back to the front.
That doesn't make him evil.Some foreign critics have criticized that there was no representation of
the
British and Canadians.  If this was a documentary, I would whole-heartedly
agree with this.  However, this is a story of a group of American soldiers
moving from one American occupied area to another.  Why would this group
run
into British and Canadians who were further East?As for the critics that say this movie does too much "flag waving", I both
agree and disagree.  I did not see any real American patriotism being
forced
upon the viewer UNTIL that uncalled for flag scene and the very end of the
movie.Still a good movie that will stick in your head for a while.

******
5 June 1999
10

We first see an elderly man walking to the cemetery where millions of
soldiers lay.Now it's June 6, 1944,Captain John Miller along with the
Sergeant and soldiers prepare to invade the beaches of France.Even before
the soldiers can get off the boat they are shot to pieces,Others having
their limbs blown off and soldiers with their entrails laying beside them
on
the beach,this goes of for about 20 minutes.After the Carnage,the captain
is
given a mission to complete:Three brothers died during battle,the fourth
one
might still  be alive,so Miller takes 8 soldiers with him to find the
fourth
brother.Incredible war drama won 5 well deserved academy awards including best
director,the film greatly acted and shows the insanity of war.I am
surprised
that this kind of content only received an ''R'' rating.Rating:***** (out of five)  

******
5 June 1999
10

This is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  I never, ever, want to
see
it again and feel the way I did after watching it though.  I have never
seen
combat, but, to me, this seemed more realistic and scary than any other
war
movie I have ever seen.  The movie is scary, sad, brilliant, and
depressing.  Watch it once and it will change the way you think.  LIFE IS
PRECIOUS!  DON'T TAKE YOUR LIFE OR ANYONE ELSE'S LIFE FOR
GRANTED!!!!

******
4 June 1999
8

I liked the movie off the bat but after a while I started to think when
are
they going to find this guy.  There was a few funny parts but they sort of
took away from the seriousness war movies of this type should have.  They
wanted to make a movie with a cross of comedy, man vs man,and man vs
himself.  The movie was a bit disappointing for a 'Spielberg' film.  I was
expecting more of a drama like "Shindlers List." I hope the next  war
movie
to come out will be one or another not a combination of a few aspects of
the
movies.

******
30 May 1999
9

How many people have to die so that one will survive? A very important
question...how many people have to die for a just cause?
That what war is all about? Since the history of human kind, there have
always been wars...except that not always they have been so expressfull as
this one. So...open, so ...real. Hollywood has a record to make good war
movies, but not all of them show you the REAL face of the war. This time,
we
all have something to watch and learn...from Steven Spielberg.
He did his "homework" and he did it very well. "Saving private Ryan",
proves just that.
Tom Hanks plays great. In the movie, he "used to be" a teacher, but now
he
is a captain, and he certainly deserves his rank.
If, by any chance, you didn`t see this movie yet, you have no idea what
you
are missing. Rent it, buy it...totally regardless which one you choose
cause
you don`t loose.
If you have a surround sound...you WILL feel every explosion, every shot,
every scream...and you will definitely not stop until you have seen it
all.I highly recommend this movie...in fact you can go strait out and buy
it...add it to your collection...it will be one of your favorites!


******
30 May 1999
10

I saw this film the night it opened last Summer. I sat in awe for the
entire
film. It was amazing. So, when Harrison Ford read Shakespeare in Love off
the Best Picture envelope, I was in shock. I had seen both, and I feel
that
SPR is so superior in every way. Shakespeare is a comedy with no real
message or any quality that makes it eligible.
I watched the film again when it arrived on video, and It affected me even
more on video. I broke down during the end. The first 5 minutes of this
film
are some of the most powerful you will ever see. I doubt I will ever
forget
seeing a soldier searching for his arm on the ground, or a another, a
intestine laying on the ground beside him, screaming mommy when he bled to
death. These are the most amazing scenes ever shot. Even the Longest day's
epic scale battles do not hold the same power. This film portrayed WW2
amazingly well. It was the first to really show the hell of it. The early
films somewhat glorified it, this was the first to handle WW2 in a long
time.
Seeing it again, I realize it is easily the greatest film I have ever
seen.
The opening moments and the final battle will go down as some of the
greatest battles ever filmed, as well as the most realistic. The Academy
was
wrong in choosing Shakespeare in Love. This film blew all the others away.
I
did see the Thin Red Line, which I consider to be the WORST film ever
made.
it is horrific. Even it's battle scenes don't affect as the characters are
so dispicabule.
Private Ryan is amazing, and will be remebered as the most powerful film
of
the last 40's years. A triumph of film making.

******
30 May 1999
10

Steven Spielberg's second great WWII epic. The beginning battle at
Normandy
to the last great words. It showed war as it is, opening minds to the real
horrors of what their grandparents and parents lived and still live. The
realism was eerie. You knew the men on the screen, the bullets were flying
at you, it was your family receiving the dreaded letter. It wasn't your
every day film. It brought you to tears. It showed not only war, but human
goodness. Eight men, men with lives and families, risk their lives to save
the last of four brothers, they didn't know him, he wasn't important to
them. They did it, for him and themselves. The stories told by Private
James
Ryan made him somebody to the soldiers, so that they fought for him after
their duty of finding him was done. Told by the greatest teller of our
time.The true feeling of the movie is belief. In people. Would I have done
this?
Would I have stayed for the final battle? Someone would. Someone did.
Many.
They died for you, years before you were born most likely. All you can do
is
hope that you did "Earn it."

******
29 May 1999
10

I honestly don't know where to begin in praising this film, but I will say
that this is without a doubt the strongest and greatest film of the
1990's.
It is also my fifth favorite film of all time. Saving Private Ryan has to
be
Steven Spielberg's greatest film, I even think it's better than the very
highly acclaimed Schindler's List.Spielberg has above all achieved the next to impossible: to create a film
so
realistic that it will make the veiwer feel like they were part of the
film.
The brutality of warfare presented in SPR was so realistic that it made me
cry, and I never, ever cry at movies.I could go on and on about how great this film is but I
believe
that it is to great to be completely explained in just a few
words.
I strongly suggest that everyone see SPR, because if you don't see it, you
will be missing a truly, profoundly, realistic experience.

******
28 May 1999
10

This movie gave me an understanding of what war is really like. Unlike
other
hollywood war movies, this movie provided in unflinching detail the
horrors
of war in a very intimate way. Only one other movie had similar impact on
me
and that was Platoon.It seems to be the consensus among many, if not all, SPR viewers that the
first 30 minutes is the greatest battle scene ever created on film.I have
to
agree. The utter confusion and slaughter of war were so realistically
portrayed that I was on the edge of my seat unaware of what horror was
going
to appear next. The movie as a whole created that feeling in me--the
feeling
of unease and tension of not knowing just what was going to happen next.
The
kind of feeling the soldiers must've felt at the time, although in much,
much greater magnitude.Similarly, the last battle scene was harrowing and exciting. I thought it
showed the utter confusion and violence of urban combat in graphic
realism.
The execution of some of the stunts and fight scenes were incredibly
well-choreographed.All in all, SPR was the best war movie I've ever seen.


******
27 May 1999
10

A depiction of war seldom seen on film.  Great F/X and
audio
mix/editing.  I especially liked the scent where the sniper
shoots the sniper.  Lots of great models too.Spielberg will direct better as in the past.

******
27 May 1999
10

This is not only the best film of Mr. Spielberg's career, but one of the
decade's best. It takes a lot for a movie to make me even shed a tear, and
this film did. The performances are terrific all around. This is one time
that I wished Tom Hanks would've won. He has a wonderful scene were he
reminds his squad that he's not a hero, but an ordinary man who wonders if
the war is changing him at all. That element alone makes this film the
remarkable achievement that it is.

******
27 May 1999
10

This film is amazing. Actually, it isn't even a film, it is an experience.
By no means am I saying it is being there, as it is in the lightest sense
of
the word. This film, about the search for a soldier whose brothers have
died
and he has a ticket home, contains the most brutal and accurate battles
you
have ever seen. You will walk away from this film tired. You will STAGGER
out of the place. I rarely cry during a film. However, the final{and first
scene} had me sobbing. The final scenes hit hard and show you how powerful
freedom is and how horrible war is, and, especially, how brave the men and
women of the armed forces are to risk their lives for people they don't
know. This film is about honor. It makes you appreciate our presence in
WW2
and how much we have...
"Earn it"

******
26 May 1999
9

Many people have talked about this movie in terms of the realistic
violence
and action throughout the movie. This certainly helps to drag people into
the movie, but was not the most stunning thing I saw in this movie. Some
people have highlighted the simple, but effective plot as a means to prove
that it was not worthy of the title of best war movie of all time. My view
was the movie was not really created to have detail plots to confuse
people
and make them think, rather the movie was about how pictures and images of
war can say much much more than words can ever do.
We not only get scenes of realistic action, but fundamentally the
characterisation of Corporal Upham is one of the best achievements in ANY
war movie. Whereas the other characters we have seen before in other
similar
war movies, Upham was so unique in war movies of any sort that he blew me
away. Saving Private Ryan should have focused more upon Upham's character
because it was far more interesting and realistic than all the other
characters put together. This movie was a character study rather than plot
tangles. Upham should not even be in the war, he is not only innocent, but
is the moral person in the movie who affects the decisions and lives of
the
other soldiers around him. Throughout the movie we see his character
slowly
change and develop to the final scenes that is so full of emotionally
realism that he beats other war movie characters. Scenes to watch out for
are:
1) When he is left behind and watches his new friends take out a guarded
post.
2) When he sits on the steps - absolutely incredible.
3) When he tries to save a German person's life.
4) And the final horrific emotionally scene of realism.
And so many besides.The only off-putting thing about the movie is the propaganda concerning
giving the impression that America is the best country in the world and
saves us from losing the war, when in fact they were just additional help
who did not join until Britain was in too much debt to the USA.


******
25 May 1999
10

I know it is not original, but this is, beyond a shadow a doubt, the
greatest war movie of all time.  This is how the veterans want it to look.
In this age of sensationalizing of violence, this movie sent a wake-up
call
to all of us about what violence really is.  And, through this movie,
Speilberg continues his legacy, and preserves their legacy for future
generations.CAN'T WAIT TILL IT COMES OUT ON DVD!!!!

******
25 May 1999
9

I have read many of the reviews for this movie, as well as listened to my
friends at work review this one.  First off, I'd like to say that all of
you
who complained about how this movie dragged in the middle have never been
a
soldier.  Five hours of boredom are suddenly followed by 5 minutes of
unrelenting terror.  That is precisely what this movie
conveyed.Mr. Spielberg has done a masterful job putting you into this infantry
unit.
The combat scenes are grittily realistic, and
not the least bit overly graphic.  Got news for you folks, that's
war.Everything is realistic and accurate, Dale Dye deserves a major bit of
recognition for this.  Tom Hanks and his bunch looked like an group who
had
seen their fair share of battle.  Mr. Dye worked his magic to the same
level
on "Platoon".If you truly want to see an accurate depiction of what real war is like,
this is the only film to see.  Five stars out of five

******
22 May 1999
10

No doubt about it... this is the most intense films I've ever seen.
Unlike
any other war film made, this film takes the view from one end of the
emotional spectrums to the other and leaves the viewer with a sobering
view
of what our brave fighting men had to endure - giving the viewer a sense
of
awe, disgust, horror, and total confusion.  This is Spielberg at his
best.

******
21 May 1999
10

As i watched Saving Private Ryan i became so deeply aware of
the
the incredible sacrifices fighting men of all sides gave.
Obviously , speaking from the point of view of residents in
the
U.K i will always remember the fact that the fighting men
from
the Allied side gave the ulitmate that a person could give
to
ensure that the way of life that we all enjoy, possibly take
for
granted even , was preserved.
For that was truly what was at stake back on the beaches of Normandy in
1944.We all should see Saving Private Ryan and remember this fact.Without
that sacrifice the world would be much different today.

******
18 May 1999
9

I truly enjoyed this movie.  it was very graphic, but somehow I think we
need to see this.  It was made up of real people, not just action heroes
who
save the day.  I think Steven Spielberg did an awesome job and I would
love
to see more films done in this honest, forthright manner.  Thank you Mr.
Spielberg for opening up our eyes to see that war is NOT
glamorous.

******
13 May 1999
10

To say that 'Saving Private Ryan' is a war film would be like calling a
Corvette a wagon.  War films tend to glorify war, and show the other side
as
being Supermeanbadguys (new word!).  But 'Saving Private Ryan' can be more
accurately described as a war drama.  In it, the war is anything but
glorified.  The scale of the war is shown on both a massive size (the
Normandy invasion) and on a more personal level.  The Germans seem bad,
but
they're just doing what we would do under the circumstances.  However,
even
with this in mind, the audience can't help but hate them.  This is the
most
dynamic part of the film; and is enough to make us forget the appallingly
deflated character's in Speilberg's 'Schindler's List.'  And, of course,
there's the acting, with Hanks at his best, and the rest of the cast (Tom
Sizemore and Jeremey Davies in particular) shines as well.  Overall, a
great
film.  And an utter travesty that it lost the Best Picture Oscar to the
massively inferior 'Shakespeare in Love.'

******
12 May 1999
10

For those seeking a fanciful film with multiple plot twists, this movie is
not for you.  For those seeking a simple, powerful film, this is it.  A
simple story, a powerful message, something that Hollywood has lacked as
of
late.  See it

******
10 May 1999
10

This film has you clinging to the edge of your seat from the moment the
credits stop.
This is a  visual masterpiece.Spielberg excels yet again in his
film-making.This horrific depiction of war numbs one into sheer
disbelief.War is hell and it has never been better illustrated than in
this
masterpiece.
Spielberg is a master,from his earlier masterpieces such as Schindler's
List
comes another,if not better, film.
The depth,visuals,acting  will make one think of it every
time
the war-issue comes up.
This is the benchmark of war films,if you can't do better don't
try.
Hail the master,Hail Spielberg!!!

******
9 May 1999
8

This film is an exceptionally well done war movie.  It is perhaps the
greatest of all time, although in my mind it is waging its own war with
Apocalypse Now for that prestigious title.  It pulls no punches in its
representation of the horrors of war.  I am certain that most movie
aficionados have heard the stories of veteran flashbacks and emotional
breakdowns caused by the film.  It is certainly the best portrayal of war
in
this decade.  It has even bested Braveheart's violence, a feat thought
impossible three years ago.  The scene in which Private Mellish is killed
by
the German soldier chills me to this day.  It is indeed a fantastic war
movie.  As a movie in general it is not quite as great.  It still is a
wonderful tale with moving emotional content but I feel certain it was not
robbed at the Academy Awards.  The characters seemed quite one-dimensional
to me and the plot left something to be desired.  In the end this film did
not approach the quality of Tom Hanks' two Oscar winning performances.
And
to risk missing the forest for the trees, I must say that the opening
scenes
of the storming of the beaches at Normandy almost made me feel sick.  This
was not from the excessive gore, and that fact does trouble me somewhat,
but
instead from the camera work.  I understand that in this age of "ER"
popularity the "messy camera" look has become incredibly popular.  In
spite
of this I think the excessive motion of the camera during this scene
detracted from the film.  I found it difficult to concentrate throughout.
Personally I thought the camera work during the battles in Braveheart were
much more effective in conveying the mood of a battlefield.

******
8 May 1999
6

This movie was, by far, the most overhyped movie of the year. It was out
in
theatres six months before I went and saw it, and for the most part I was
unimpressed. It was just two very detailed battle sequences, with a
mediocre
story sandwiched in between. Mind you, those sequences were breathtaking,
and disturbing. But The Thin Red Line had more of a lasting effect on me
than this. This movie was far too long, two hours would have sufficed, it
was overly patriotic, with a McGyver ending slapped on at the
end.

******
7 May 1999
8

They shoot a lot in this movie and it looks great. All the action scenes
are
magnificent especially the ones on the beach. Tom Hanks sees that life
isn't
like a box of chocolates... Luckily for this 3 hour movie 2.5 hours is
action, because the storyline isn't much (Spielberg!). The part that plays
in our own time: cut this out of the movie. With a good story this movie
would be a real number 1.

******
4 May 1999
9

Spielberg was shunned by the Oscar nominations last year in large part due
to the controversy over who deserved the writing credit for "Amistad."
(Then of course there's the whole white-director-black-story issue, for
which he's been paying ever since "The Color Purple".but don't get me
started on that.)  It may have been the best possible move for him to work
with Tom "He Can Do No Wrong" Hanks this time out.  This is definitely a
five-hankie picture: I wept continuously for the first twenty minutes and
was on the brink of tears for almost the entire remainder of its
three-hours-plus running time.  Spielberg has an uncanny ability to
confront
us on film with things that require our social and individual
attention--consider "The Color Purple," "Empire of the Sun," "Schindler's
List," "Amistad," and now "Saving Private Ryan."  That these films were
made
by the same man who directed "Jaws," "E.T.," and the Indiana Jones movies
is
astonishing.  No other filmmaker working today produces this variety of
films, from those intended to prod and provoke thoughtful adults to those
that speak so clearly to our children and to the child in each of us.
"Saving Private Ryan" is a devastating depiction of and meditation on the
costs of war, a heart-breaking but ultimately affirming examination of
individual human worth.  Tom Hanks is Everyman, with whom we can all
identify, and Matt Damon is the titular Private Ryan, a beaming,
scrub-faced, bright-eyed beautiful boy whom we all want to save.  What is
one man's life worth?  What are the consequences of inhumanity?  What is
the
value of integrity?  This film shows us that society cannot answer these
questions; the answers lie inside, and must come from within.

******
1 May 1999
9

This isn't nearly as good as my favorite war movie--Das Boot, but it has
some similar elements that are fantastic. It isn't one sided, nor does it
tell you what to think. To avoid a spoiler I won't go into detail, but the
whole subplot with the translator is one of the highlights of the
movie.
One thing is certain--this is a must see movie (very preferably on a big
screen).

******
29 April 1999
8

This was truly a wonderful film from start to finish.  I have never
experienced war first hand, so I appreciated Spielberg's graphic depiction
of the taking of Normandy Beach.  The images of wave after wave of soldier
being picked off by bullets or shrapnel truly gives meaning to the phrase
"war is hell."  Very few directors could do what Spielberg did for this
first 20 minutes. Spielberg was able to build on this event and develop a
story and a group of characters that the audience could truly identify
with.
Special kudos should go to Tom Hanks, whose presence on film easily
matches
that of Jimmy Stewart.  In this movie Hanks embodies every American
soldier
who put his/her life on the line no matter the reason or the locale.  A
classic film that will be remembered for years to come.

******
23 April 1999
8

Saving Private Ryan was two films, for me.  The opening Omaha Beach
landing
sequence of 'Ryan' produced the most intense feeling I've ever experienced
while watching a movie.  Spielberg manages to trap history in a bottle and
the sights and sounds -- especially the sounds -- are terrifying.  Like
the
car chase in Steve McQueen's 'Bullit', Spielberg sets a marker that will
hard to duplicate.  After it was over I fully felt deserving of a campaign
ribbon to wear on my polo shirt.Having thus been promised a peek into history, I was overly disappointed
with Part II which degenerates into just a good
action flic.  Spielberg junks historical accuracy for post Vietnam
sensibilities.  Captain John Miller (Hanks) and his squad of Rangers are
portrayed as post Vietnam philosophers who dwell on the unfairness of
having
to risk their lives for a political necessity -- saving the fictional
Private Ryan.  In point of fact, the loss of the five Sullivan brothers
when
their ship, the USS Juneau,  was sunk in 1942 resulted in changed Navy
policy about allowing brothers to serve on the same ship.  The public
wanted
(but never got) a law to that effect.  So, the idea of saving Private Ryan
would not have struck these 1944 Rangers as particularly odd.   The movie,
though, portrays Gen. George C. Marshall as a callous political hack for
recognizing this exigency.  While the  World War II grunt fought for the
same reason all grunts fight -- honor (cowardice, at least in 1944, was
still viewed as more distasteful than death), these guys need fulfillment.Other lapses continued to shake me out of my trance.  A cameo appearance
by
Ted Danson, for instance, seemed out of place and I found myself thinking
about Normy and Carla on Omaha Beach,  and the pre-production Hollywood
party when Spielberg says, "say Ted, if you're not doing anything
tomorrow... ."    Later, this squad of savvy Rangers is seen marching in
file on the
crest of a ridge, fully back-lit by the moon.  Hardly something out of the
Ranger survival guide.  The action sequences, as always in a Spielberg
production, were
terrific, but by the end of Part 2  I was cynical about Spielberg's
motives.
Rated 8 out of 10 overall.

******
23 April 1999
10

i knew that this was supposed to be an awesome movie, but it hit home to me
when i saw my father (four sons) crying in the car on the way home.Steven Spielberg has done an incredible job, and i hope he keeps it up. 25th
of April is New Zealand's equivalent of armistice day, and until i saw SPR, i
had no clear idea of what our veterans went through. Thank you for an
eye-opening experience.

******
21 April 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan may very well be the greatest war film in existence.
The
Movie opens with the D-Day invasion at Normandy. Blood flying everywhere,
pieces of body parts are missing, even a guy who sits there and screams
while trying to hold his guts in, make that first war scene a scene you
will
never forget. Not only does this movie have realistic war scenes but also
has a very good script and top notch performances by Tom Hanks and Tom
Seizmore. Go see this movie unless you're too squeamish to handle the
graphic
violence. **** out of **** for SPR.

******
19 April 1999
10

Film stilled my voice for hours. NATO is in Yugoslavia. We cannot forget the
Vietnam War. And we may never know enough about W.W.II. Etched forever in my
memory is the scene of James Francis Ryan's mother, her body folding
downwards and collapsing on the porch, on her knees, as she faces the men
who bring the words of her three sons' deaths.  Never has grief, the
enormity of this grief, been captured with so much power and been so
evocative. There is the scene with the French child returning to her family
who appear to be living "on a shelf," that is, what is left of the floor of
their bombed-out building, and this precious little girl hitting at her
father, after her father's attempts to give her to the soldiers to take to
safety. This is a film to see over and over, and to never ever
forget. 

******
16 April 1999
10

"Saving Private Ryan" Anyone who's ever doubted Speilberg's past works, no
problem,  but his last three historical epics are masterpieces. This film
concerns a group of soldiers in the Normandy Invasion who are searching for
a missing soldier, in which all of his siblings were killed. This movie is
also filmed in different formats never before seen in other war films. This
film was nominated for best picture of the year and lost, but that's all a
matter of opinion anyways. This film's depiction of graphic warfare is not
for everyone and is not for children or the squeamish. All the acting is top
notch. MPAA Rating: R (graphic combat violence and profanity).

******
16 April 1999
9

The effect this movie has on you is devastating.  The combat scenes in the
movie are where you can find Speilberg exploring territory that no other
director has before in war movies.  Spielberg comes as close to capturing
the madness of war by showing us the horror in an unrelenting fashion.
Deaths alternate between quick and horrifying and slow and agonizing.  It's
unfortunate that such a pedestrian script was used to connect the awesome
combat scenes.  But the frustratingly simplistic plotline serves as a way for
the characters to question war in a way a post-Vietnam American would,
without making such questioning seem historically preposterous (as it did in
"The Thin Red Line," whose "hero" has gone AWOL just months following Pearl
Harbor).  The movie would have been a 10 if not for the bookends (Private
Ryan visiting Normandy as an old man) that were taken from
"Titanic."

******
14 April 1999
9

The most stunning war film in cinematic history. Steven Spielberg has
crafted an unbelievable recreation of the Normandy Invasion and story that
follows. By using bleached out lighting and a guerrilla style of
camerawork,
Spielberg thrusts the viewer  into the battle. Januscz Kaminski's camera
seems to be everywhere at once without losing the viewer. At the center is
the performance by its cast. They perform with a quiet sense of dignity
not
seen in films today. Tom Hanks gives his most memorable performance to
date
as Capt. John Miller, a battle-weary citizen-soldier who has seen too
much.
Hanks is without a handicap in this role, unlike Forrest Gump and
Philadelphia. The character he creates is one who is faced with an
insurmountable task and in carrying it out, must keep himself and his men
alive, and without losing his own sanity and decency. This performance
easily surpassed Oscar winner Roberto Benigni's.  Alongside Hanks'
performance is beautiful portrayals by Tom Sizemore, Ed Burns, Giovanni
Ribisi, Adam Goldberg, Barry Pepper, Jeremy Davies, Vin Diesel, and Matt
Damon. This was by far the best film of the year, easily beating
Shakespeare
in Love. It is sad to see that an ad campaign can buy a film an Academy
Award. 

******
11 April 1999
10

I agree that except for the first 30 minutes, and perhaps the last battle
scene, the movie turns into a standard Hollywood war movie.  In general, I
think Spielberg"s films are over rated.
For authentic battle scenes in other films, try "When Trumpets Fade,"
"Hamburger Hill, and also, "Pork Chop Hill."

******
9 April 1999
7

I think Spielberg bit off a little more than he can chew with this
movie. While the Normandy invasion at the beginning haunted me for weeks and
was far and away the best war movie sequence I ever saw, the ending of this
movie seemed too easy and neatly wrapped up. It asked a question that could
not be answered; was saving private Ryan worth it? They'll say yes and have
a tidy ending. It isn't that simple and I would have taken a different
approach with the ending and left that question unanswered. But I guess
Hollywood doesn't do that. Too bad, it really could have been one of the
best movies ever made. I recommend it but watch out because it is very
intense. 

******
7 April 1999
10

I saw Saving Private Ryan the other day and I was shocked at how realistic
it was, and how affected I was by it. That night I could barely get to
sleep
because every time I closed my eyes I pictured Wade asking for his mother
or
Caparzo(?) holding the letter to his parents.I also have to say that one
of
the reasons this movie was so great was the power of the performances, not
just Tom Hanks, but Ed Burns,  Adam Goldberg(Mellish), Jeremy
Davies(Upham),
and Giovanni Ribisi(Wade). 

******
7 April 1999
10

We see movies to be entertained. As a form of escape from our every day  
lives. Saving Private Ryan instead, takes you to experience the horrors of
war.
Everything we fear about war is confirmed true in this movie. The question
is,
do you really want to experience war?Technically, the movie is flawless. The story about a platoon trying to
retrieve
the only surviving of four brothers in WWII France takes a second place
behind
the brutal battle scenes, some of the most impacting in the history of
movies.
Some scenes you won't be able to forget, maybe for the rest of your life. So
be
prepared. Do not pay attention to it's R rating. Ryan's an NC-17
a

******
5 April 1999
10

Most all that can be said about this film has been said.  I won't argue with
"Saving Private Ryan" naysayers, because in a sense I see some of the points
they try to make.  Personally, it is one of the most powerful experiences
I've had at a motion picture.I think it's important to point out that, though we've seen some scenes from
the middle done before in other war movies, that doesn't make them in any
way conventional or hackneyed.  The film's much-heralded opening scene of
the landing at Normandy provides color and mood for all scenes that follow.
One very nearly may not have enough emotional resources left to endure the
final battle scene, but Spielberg is not beating us over the
head.In 1987, my mother made me sit through the harrowing TV holocaust drama
"Escape From Sobibor", for which I was resentful then but grateful now.  In
the early days of film, audiences literally ducked out of the way, reacting
to a shot of a speeding locomotive.  I mention these two things because I
want to communicate why we go to movies to begin with.  One reason is to
witness the horrific events of our past, in hopes that we can prevent them
from happening again.  The other--and this can only be done if the movie
makers are skilled enough (and Spielberg clearly is) is to convince us of
the authenticity of a time and place.We go to the trouble of going to the movie theatre for a reason.  We hope we
are going to be glad we went.  When the lights go down, our muscles tighten
in anticipation.  I was happy to have seen "Saving Private
Ryan". 

******
3 April 1999
8

What a movie!  Something for everybody: action packed, very well-written,
emotionally engaging (a rarity for films of this genre), and superbly
directed.  Even the art direction is top-notch!  (I won't carp about the
improbability of the setup.)Probably the greatest war movie ever made, and
surely the the best since FULL METAL JACKET back in '87.  An instant
classic.  

******
31 March 1999
6

The first 30 minutes I sat with my toes clenched. People around me were
sobbing, which I honestly found to be over-reacting. After the 30 minutes the
movie begins to slow down and the wafer thin plot is introduced. The
characters in the movie are never really fully developed and stay two
dimensional. That's why I was surprised about the Oscar nomination for Tom
Hanks, in my view totally undeserved.
The visuals are good and effectively show the chaos during
combat.
Overall I would put the movie in the same category as "The dirty dozen" and
other mission type war movies, very entertaining but not worth the hype this
movie has gotten.

******
28 March 1999
7

The initial 30 minutes are groundbreakingly realistic, and probably
give
a truer sense of what it was like to storm the Normandy beaches than any
film that has come before.Unfortunately, the middle half of the film wanders about aimlessly, as
the characters - a checklist of war-types - gather themselves for the
finale, which sets the soldiers on a well-worn path. Also, the attitudes
of
the soldiers reflects the cynical, resentful 1960s generation of war
protesters and draft dodgers, not the genuinely heroic generation that
actually fought WWII. As a result, I think this film (like almost
everything
else) pales next to the more authentic THE LONGEST DAY; another good one
is
THE BIG RED ONE which features a checklist of movie-army-types led into
battle by Lee Marvin, and is similar in structure to RYAN but more
authentic
as well.That said, the opening scenes and the finale feature some of the best
war
scenes ever filmed. The movie works on another level as well: we're the
ones
who were saved by that generation's ultimate sacrifice, and like Ryan we
should be asking ourselves, "What have I done to deserve the sacrifices
made
for _me_?"

******
27 March 1999
7

The film is at most fun. The production is speckless, the action very
intense in the vital moments, the cinematography is excellent, the sound
involving, all very beautifully done, but... it is all. It is just a
millionary production, a little more than ID4.
The story is very poor, and the historical context is far away from
making the film outstanding. It feels like anything about war one has
seen,
only better made.
It is outrageous that people put Saving Private Ryan above others of
the
genre, such as Apocalypse Now, Platoon or Full Metal Jacket. The acting is
hardly good, not because of the actors, who did what they could, but
because
of the story, which made the acting secondary. Since the story is so poor,
and the American Hero appeal is not what can make it better, the whole
film
has become just another nice and entertaining Spielberg production. Far
from
deserving an Oscar, further from being mentioned in Cinema History (as the
Art).

******
23 March 1999
10

No matter what the Oscars said, Saving Private Ryan was the best
film of 1998. It's realistic recreation of the horrors of war make it
worthy
of praise for years to come. Another top-notch performance from Hanks, as
well as a memorable performance by newcomer Jeremy Davies. Great job,
DreamWorks!10 Points out of 10


******
23 March 1999
10

The first time I laid my eyes on this film (I have seen it about 10 times
now), I was filled with awe and inspiration.  The "transitional"
wide-angle
shot of the grunts being torn to peices just as the higgins boats reach
the
beach are the most horrifying (and at the same time) the most beautiful
images I have ever seen on film.  The half-hour that follows (and I don't
think that many will disagree with me) is flawless filmmaking.
Unfortunately, that is the problem.  The first half-hour is SO damned
strong
in fact, that it is in MY opinion that the momentum of the rest of the
film
suffers in comparison.  Like "Braveheart" and "All Quiet on the Western
Front", Speilberg showed his ideas through emotions and feelings rather
than
words.  I believe that was all accomplished in the first act of the film,
leaving the rest of the picture to fend for itself.  What turned out to be
a
very intelligent move by Robert Rodat and Speilberg was to use each member
of the squad to express an intruiging symbolic idea.  To me, that made upfor the lack of any solidity to the story-line that may have existed.  The
level of violence and arbitrariness are without a doubt maxed out here,
but
at good cause.  ANYONE who knows ANYTHING about what unfolded on Omaha
Beach
that morning knows that it was a collosal bloodbath full of blood, guts,
vomit, and death.  If you would read Steven Ambroses' "D-Day" novel, you
would actually realize that "Saving Private Ryan" was just an edited
version
of what occurred that morning on the different sectors of Omaha Beach.
Never-the-less, this film is a true repreasentation of raw power and
gritty
realism, that I am sure, will not be passed up for a long while in scope.


******
22 March 1999
10

There are those that say, that this movie won't play well
on the small screen. It probably won't.  Most films don't.
Some say that it was too violent. Others say that the subjectmatter has been done before. But I challenge anyone to find afilm that has ever told the story war so well.  Like with
Oliver Stone's  "Born on the 4th of July",   the truth,
can
sometimes be more reality than most people handle.  I left
the theater numb.  It became one of my personal top 10's.
It made my grateful to the many that paid the ultimateprice.
Speilberg made, perhaps the greatest war epic ever.  And,
this
was the best movie Tom Hanks has ever been in.  Tom Hanks'
may have earned his oscars for "Forrest Gump", and
"Philadelphia", but "Saving Private Ryan"  was a better
film.

******
22 March 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is in itself a simple story and the mission of saving
private Ryan not a major event in this terrible war.  Yet it points out
that
it was still about human values and our fight to preserve them.  The
terror
facing those brave soldiers and the agony that they lived in, could not
have
been visualized better than in this Spielberg's masterpiece.  These eye to
eye, life to death moments of this film are icy cold realistic and closer
to
experiencing the WWII we can hardly get.  It is an long awaited ovation to
the bravehearts and the victims of this war.  The lessons from WWII should
never be forgotten.  As in Schindler's list, Spielberg and associates have
again given us the vital lesson of realizing how precious piece and life
are.
This powerful film is one of the greatest ever - my score is
10.


******
21 March 1999
10

I just returned from my third viewing of Saving Private Ryan. I get more and
more out of it every time I watch the movie. As a student of conflict in
general and World War II in particular, I find it to be a masterpiece, a
tribute to those men who, when history called, put down their tools, calmly
went off defeat the forces of evil, then modestly returned to everyday life
without another word.Their generation was the bravest there was. I wonder if the "me-me-me"
generations which followed have earned the sacrifices they made at Normandy,
Iwo Jima, Okinawa, Tarawa, and Anzio.The Academy would be doing a great disservice if Saving Private Ryan is not
selected as best picture for 1998. 

******
21 March 1999
7

Spectacular action scenes do not make a classic war movie. This film has
two of them, that serve as bookends for a rather dull middle.The war scenes are extremely well done, that much is true. But many people,
who hail this film as a classic, seem to substitute
well filmed action & carnage for that of a "classic". How many films that
came before this one have told us of the horrors of war, that war is hell, &
"this is how it really was"? Even if the war scenes in SPR are superior to
that of ,say, the Deer Hunter or Platoon, does it make it a better film? No.
SPR has nothing new to say about war. It may contain more extravagant war
scenes than these other war films, but don't go mistaking it for a classic,
or the "ultimate war film".Something has always bothered me about Spielberg's films.
He
is incapable of subtlety or nuance . Everything is out in the open, spelled
out, leaving nothing to the imagination, or to the mysteries & complexities
of human nature.He has always struck me as a kid, showing off his film
making skills, trying to outdo everyone else's films on whichever genre. .He
takes heavy weight subjects such as the holocaust, war, slavery, & cheapens
them. And because of the sensitivity of these topics, we are not allowed to
criticize him or his films, because his intentions are worthy or noble. It's
not the subject matter of his films I have a problem with, it's his
treatment of them that I dislike.Compared to the Thin Red Line, SPR has a connect the dots mentality.It has
none of the compassion, complexity or rich layering that the TRL has. But
because it does have the enormous amount of carnage & gore that the TRL
doesn't have, it gets more attention.Even in a war film such as the TRL,
there is still room for subtlety. Spielberg is only trying to outdo the war
films that have come before his. He'll push all the buttons necessary & use
all the tricks he knows to do this.SPR is firstly an action film, and that's why most people like it. The bits
about the loss of human life, the sacrifices these men made,etc. are
secondary, and only serve to prop the film up
and attempt to give it loftier & more meaningful ideals than it actually
has. Let's face it, SPR enthusiasts are going to see this film for the very
thing that the film (unsuccessfully) tries to denounce: the horror &
violence of war. Don't be fooled.


******
20 March 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is the best war film I've seen in a long time. The
acting is fantastic, everything about it amazing. Although some people would
call it to gruesome, but that's war. It's about time someone made a film
that depicts WWII accurately. Steven Spielberg is a genius, and broke a lot
of rules when making this film. I highly recommend it, and I hope it wins
Best Picture at this year's Oscars.

******
19 March 1999
8

It's pretty much all been said. I saw this movie in the largest theater in
Dublin, and it was a full house (800). After the opening battle sequence
there was a deathly hush unlike anything I have ever experienced before or
since. It was obvious, that this was the closest anyone there had ever
gotten to actual combat - that we had been transported back in time to a
hell on earth and that nobody was ever going to be able to look at any war
movies in the same light again. For this alone this film deserves its place
in history.

******
17 March 1999
7

I don't like war movies at all but I went to see SPR to understand what all
the hype was about.  I am still suffering from the effects the morning
after.  All the jostling of the camera gave me a headache and my mom felt
like she was going to throw up.  I tried to explain to her that was intended
to portray the chaos of war.  However, I don't know how realistic the movie
is since I wasn't there at Omaha Beach and I'm not a military buff.  Being a
member of generation x, I'm pretty far removed.  Through the opening scene,
I just thought it was great special effects.  But, if this is even close to
what our veterans had to go through, then I'm shocked at the horrors and
grateful for their sacrifices.SPR was intended to show the brutal ugliness of war.  It wasn't meant to
entertain.  The storyline itself was stupid.  I don't think eight men would
be sent to find one.  On the whole, I was very bored by the three hours and
normally I would give a movie such as this 3/10 stars because war just isn't
my favorite genre.  However, due to the important message it carries,
especially to young people, I give it a 7/10. 

******
17 March 1999
10

Spielberg is the best! As one of our theatre guests said "War sucks!" This
"movie" makes You sit still after the end titles starts with your thoughts
running. Giving You a feeling of "God I live a fortunate life!" In the best
way You are given a little bit of humanity and You might start thinking of
other people than Yourself. Does this still happen? It's nud just a
movie!

******
14 March 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan, with all respect to The Deer Hunter and Platoon, IS the
greatest war film there ever was, and probably ever will be.  Many people,
especially in this website,  criticize the film for its many "flaws" like
story structure, violence and nationalism.  First of all, this film was
intended to be a dramatic portrayal of war, but its brilliant realism made
it seem almost like a documentary in some ways-----and people criticized the
film for this.  Well, isn't that the point of cinema, to make something on a
screen seem real?  Apparently, some people on this website don't think so.
As for the extreme-violence, HELLO, this was a war film, and war is violent.
Another general criticism of this film was its dull, and unrealstic plot.
Whoever said that this film's premise was unrealsitic should have done some
research since the whole plot is based on a true story of a platoon that was
sent to save a soldier whose brothers were lost in WWII.  And finally, the
person that criticized the film for having too much nationalism was just
trying to attack the film for the opening and closing scenes with the
American flag blowing in the wind.  Those scenes were not there to imply
nationalism----they were actually there to say that the country's
involvement in WWII is what was honorable.  Get it....the flag was waving
from the beginning of the war to the end, i.e, fighting the war was
something we should be proud of.  You want a film that was absurdly
nationalistic---how about "Bridge on the River Kwai," a film where the
soldiers were so determined to give their nation a good name that they built
a bridge to help the army that had captured them.

******
13 March 1999
10

this is an extraordinary movie. i have seen
it three times. from the opening assault
on normandy to the climactic battle scenes
at the bridge it just overwhelms. i have
never seen a movie which draws the viewer
into it's world so completely. and this is
fact, not fiction.
spielberg in his brilliance has brought
the reality of war to us as no one before.
people in the theatre have just sat
mesmerized and stunned by the scenes which
were so remarkably shown. it is the best
war movie ever made and one of the best
movies of any genre. the heroism of the
regular gis is portrayed here as a lasting
testament to their bravery. tom hanks was
brilliant as was his supporting cast.
great movies are sometimes difficult to
watch, and this is no exception, but if
one can get past th carnage and blood a
very rewarding and uplifting experience is
there for the taking. the sacrifice of our
fathers, brothers, etc. is shown here as
never before. congratulations to all
involved! a great experience!

******
13 March 1999
8

I saw this a week after "You've Got Mail" which sucks. I did not expect a
lot from Tom Hanks. This film is well made, well edited and is an exciting
and disturbing look at war. The film contains two members of the friend's
cast, the medic is Phoebe's brother and the Jew killed by the knife is Crazy
Eddy Chandlers ex roomate. Not a must see... no film is, but a worthy should
see if at all possible.

******
12 March 1999
10

I so enjoyed this movie.  It was a good story for generations to see, and
re-see.  I took my children (ages 11 and 13), and I'm glad I did.  They
learned something...

******
11 March 1999
10

Spielberg demonstrates that he is the greatest filmmaker of all time.  This
film is, perhaps, the most spectacular achievement I have ever seen in
cinema.  I am still in awe days after having seen this film.  I thought
Schindler's List was, perhaps, the greatest WWII depiction I had ever seen,
but no more.  This film realism is so real it is hard to believe that this
production was,in fact, after all, a drama and not a documentary.  My mind
is now permanently blown.  Steven Spielberg is the ultimate.

******
10 March 1999
10

I really, really, really, thought this was a great movie. Other people do
too, but I don't think the ones I know like this movie the right way. My
psychiatrist didn't think it held up too well, and my sick friends thought
the gut-wretching violence was funny. I am very offended by their views and
anybody else's views if they disagree with me. I want to see this movie in
theater before I miss my chance. I will never watch this on video. You
couldn't pay me. Back to the movie, Steven Spielberg is one of the world's
greatest directors. Tom Hanks is also one of the best actors. All the actors
were excellent in their roles. I also liked Jeremy Davies. He was a really
good character. I think he should have gotten nominated for an Acadamy
Award. The direction, every conceivable detail, the wonderful
cinematography, the editing, the fact that humor could be fit in to a movie
like this, the battle sequences from Omaha Beach to the final one in the
destroyed German town, this is just some of the things I can mention. I
don't have anything bad to say about this movie. I only have good things to
say. 

******
8 March 1999
10

The genius of Steven Speilberg is just breathtaking.  NO other director has
his talents or resources.  This movie is VERY close to being a perfect
movie.  The beginning scene itself is WELL worth admission.  If you miss this
movie on the big screen, you will be missing greatness.  It deserves best
picture, director, and actor Oscars AT LEAST.

******
6 March 1999
9

Spectacular cinematography.  Wonderful art direction.  Some of the camera
work makes you think that you were actually there.  A definite must for the
WWII buff.

******
4 March 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan does a couple of things that make it a worthwhile
film.
1)It depicts combat as hell. It gives a realism to film combat that lets
those of us lucky enough not to have been there realise just how lucky we
are.
2)It lets us pay tribute to those old men we see on Veterans Day and ANZAC
day (in Australia & New Zealand). We now can appreciate why they still
march.
As for the sensitivity of some of American friends to comments regarding
American patriotism...
Of course there is no reason to criticize the depiction of Americans in an
American war film. However, maybe, just maybe, the film would be stronger if
nationality was taken out of the equation and we saw it for what war
is...People killing each other while in fear of their own lives because of
politics. We can be proud of what these people did for our freedom but they
didn't do it for a coloured piece of cloth, they did it because they were
asked to defend freedom and once in battle, they did it to survive.
So, American friends, don't be so sensitive. Your people have done alot for
the rest we know but we're allowed to criticise a film maker who likes to
wave flags in his war movie...that's what starts them!

******
4 March 1999
10

I enjoyed this movie.  However, my mom didn't.  She doesn't like war movies
very much, so why she agreed to see this movie with me and her friends, I do
not know.  However, when I went to see the movie, the only place to sit was
in the front row.  I don't recommend doing this for this movie because the
camera jumps around a lot and caused me and all of the members in my party
to not feel very well.

******
2 March 1999
10

My humble skills as a writer lend me no assistance in capturing the
trauma that one experiences while watching this movie.  The best way for me
to sum it up is by telling you what typical audience reaction greets the end
credits - stunned silence.It is a testament to the power of this piece of film that it leaves
viewers in shocked awe of the ordeal that the WWII generation must have
faced at home and in combat.  The documentary-style cinematography and
gritty violence draws the audience into the terror that faced every person
that came ashore in Normandy that cold June morning.As incredibly nerve-wracking as that sequence is in the film, there is a
hard truth that every viewer keeps in his mind.  It is this fact alone that
allows us to watch in fascination as scores of men are slaughtered on the
beach.The undeniable truth is that this is make-believe.The bullets are not real.  The blood is fake.  When the director called
"Cut!" everyone in the scene got up and went to the buffet.  So as bad as it
looks on camera, we realize that it's all just a lot of masterful
storytelling.The film's triumph lies in the slowly dawning idea that grows within the
audience.  By the end, there is a small voice that whispers, "This is a
movie, but for many it was real - and even worse than what was
shown..." 

******
2 March 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is one of the best films. It shows how truly gifted
Spielberg is. It starts out with the most horrific 25 minutes I have ever
seen on film. What I would like to rave the most over is the
acting, especially Tom Hanks (his best performance),Giavanni Ribisi, Jeremy
Davies,and Tom Sizemore. The first 25 minutes of the film is some of the
greatest camera work in the history of film. This film shows the true horrors
of war and I now have admiration for the soldiers who fought in the
war.

******
2 March 1999
7

"Saving Private Ryan" is a deeply and affecting movie.  The first 24 minutes
at Normandy is riveting. Spielberg carries you right up the beach with the
others.  It is hard to overt your eyes.  I think that this was the first
movie I've gone to where it was completely silent throughout the whole film,
and after as the audience was in awe.  The movie is deeply moving and
affecting. Hanks, Sizemore, Burns, Davies, Damon, Ribisi, Goldberg, et al
were stupendous in this movie.

******
2 March 1999
10
Spielberg's 2nd masterpiece of war is a shocking and relentless epic
that is a perfect blend of emotion and current film technology. There
has never been a battle scene as brutally realized as the storming of
Omaha Beach, and no other filmmaker has come anywhere remotely close to
capturing the horrors of war. You find yourself forgetting where you
are and who is even in this 'movie'. I say this meaning the film seems
like a documentary, as well as a first hand account, exemplified in the
compelling scenes where Hanks' Captain Miller sees everything in slow
motion, blood splattering on him and all. The carnage is as close to
war as anyone who has never been to war can get. Forget APOCALYPSE,
forget THIN RED LINE, forget even PLATOON. This is it.Actors who have participated in the film say they cannot believe what
is on the screen. Matt Damon is quoted as saying he forgot he was in
the film while watching the final sequence. People will ask them
forever what it was like to be in this picture. Veterans have sent
their thanks to Spielberg and his crew for honoring them with this
absolute classic. It will be studied forever in schools, grammar on up.
It deserves every award it will receive and we all a owe debt to those
who made such an important and awesome film that shows us the depths of
the human condition, human collaboration, and human hell. Best Picture
of the year, if not the decade. It will be universally immortalized.

******
25 February 1999
10

Like I said this is a movie just as good as "Titanic" (better actually). But
this is for men. None of that romance stuff. However Spielberg is able to
tell the story so great, that you are moved to tears. And the scene on Omaha
Beach is some of the best action I have ever seen (and I am a huge fan of
Schwarze-
negger). All in all I have only seen one WWII better than this. That was the
famous "D-Day". 

******
24 February 1999
10

The first time I saw this movie I thought I was going to get ill but it
kept my attention. I am only 12 years old and Saving Private Ryan is my favorite movie. The first thirty minutes of this movie were so
powerful and graphic and that is what I like about this war movie.
Oh yea, I loved Tom Hanks' performance. I would highly recommend this movie for war movie fans.This movie is superb.


******
21 February 1999
5

Saving Private Ryan had an incredible beginning. Some of the greatest
cinematography I've ever seen. And much credit is due to this wonderful
scene. However, the movie relies too much on this one aspect of the film. If
there was as much time spent on that first thirty minutes as in the rest of
the film, it would have been a true masterpiece. I admit, the ending picked
up a little more, but only in a few scenes. The middle dragged, and I hardly
remember it. Now, a lot of people are all talking about the great first
thirty minutes and rightly so, they are great, but in ten years, I can still
only see this movie being remembered for its first thirty minutes, and not
the film as a whole. 

******
20 February 1999
7

If this movie wins the Oscar for best picture, I´m never gonna watch the
academy-show again. I think it is a typical Tom Hanks-movie.He says maybe 10
lines.And he is nominated for best actor. I´m not saying that Tom Hanks is a
bad actor. I loved Forrest Gump and Apollo 13. This movie is good but I think
that "The Thin Red Line" is a better war-movie. The ratings for this movie is
just 6.5 of 10.

******
19 February 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is the greatest movie ever.  I can't believe there were
299 votes for it as a "1".  You guys are crazy!  If you don't like the movie
because of the brutality then I feel sorry for you.  Watching it fills me
with pride.

******
18 February 1999
8

I agree that "Saving Private Ryan" is a good movie. Mostly because, to me, it
was able to show the horrors of war in a quite realistic way. And how there
are no heroes, in fact, for an American movie, its strength was that it showed
the grays,
not the black and whites. And the first twenty minutes I sat watching as the
lump in my throat grew.But why the present-past-structure? I think the message would have been
brought across to me just as powerfully if it had been done in the past only.
Without the manipulation of perspective, without the dreadfully over-the-top
sentimental scene at the end at the cemetary. Without those frightfully
unbelievable last words (wouldn't he have thought about his wife, maybe linked
to that memory in the garden?). I could've done without it. And also without
those glorious American flags that started and ended the movie.Why claim this war? What I liked about it was that it was quite vague about
all the different nationalities, making it more of a general protest against
war. The American flags weaken that aspect. Other than that, it could've been
a perfect and very powerful movie. That makes me, a post-war child, respect
all people who've experienced and survived war even more.


******
17 February 1999
10

This movie made me realize how horrible war is, and why it is important that
we are never involved in another one.  As always Spielberg has presented us
with such an exciting and involving picture that the experience will not soon
be forgotten.  There are some stand-out performances in this movie.  Tom
Hanks puts on an exceptional performance as "Capt. John Miller", trying to
keep his men alive as they engage in a mission that even he himself has
trouble believing in.  Another great performance by a fine young actor named
Barry Pepper, as the talented sniper who quotes scripture as he disposes of
his enemies.  This film grabs a hold of you from the opening scene storming
the beach, and doesn't let go until the closing credits and beyond.  About
the highest endorsement I can give this movie, is that my Grandfather was in
the WWII and he saw the film and said that it was as close to being in a war
that(hopefully) I would ever get.
Kudos to all involved in this amazing motion picture.

******
15 February 1999
10

It was two weeks before it came out and saw previews in the cinemas, i was
desperately wanting to see it, so the first saturday of the opening week it
came out, i bought my tickets and ran to the best seat and started to wonder
if it was all worth going all psycho about, and let me tell you something,
YES IT WAS! i have never seen such a graphical movie like this besides say
"Man Bites Dog" (see in the database). Personally I enjoyed Saving Private
Ryan very much. I had some pros and cons to it though: the pros were that it
was long, intense (like on the battle of normandy scene was very disturbing
yet it felt like you were there), but the cons were that halfway through
though i thought was a little bit yawnish, but still i sat and enjoyed a
wonderful tale of a group of soldiers searching for another soldier to take
back home to his mother since his mother had 3 other brothers that died in
the war too. This is a type of movie that should be shown to schools
worldwide, but one thing i found amazing was the fact that there were old
people in the cinema, after the normandy scene, they all left, one was in a
wheelchair and collapsed, so i thought that the graphical scenes had to just
pull you like a hand and take you into what was probably like in real life.
IT IS A MUST, go see it.
9/10

******
15 February 1999
9

This movie was the absolute best perfomance I have seen in a
war
picture. The realism was constantly present throughout the entire picture. A
terrific job done by actor Tom Hanks. 

******
15 February 1999
10

Where do I even begin? Well, maybe I'll start by saying that this is the
best movie ever made.  I don't know how Spielberg did it, but this
movie captures you like no other.  Maybe it's his brilliant usage of
hand-held cameras, but during the battle scenes, you feel like you're there.
You feel like you are in the battle.  Veterans who saw the movie said that
the only thing missing is the smell of gunpowder.Many have criticized Spielberg's use for making the movie so violent.  They
said the film is just too bloody.  Wrong!  Spielberg always trys to go for
realism, and that's exactly what he does.  The film is gory because the war
was gory.  That's the way things happen on D-Day.The film definitely deserves the Oscar. It is the most powerful piece of
work ever put on the screen.  Can you honestly do any better?

******
15 February 1999
10

Superb movie.  Harrowing, realistic, disturbing, with just a touch of
humour.  One of the best movies ever.  An excellent performance from all the
cast, especially Tom Hanks.  Deserves to win a bundle of Oscars and other
awards.

******
14 February 1999
10

I am almost 20 years old and I could not imagine myself being in the same
position as other soldiers my age portrayed in this movie.I own over 400 movies and have seen thousands and this is the first movie to
actually change me.  What I mean by this, I feel like a better person just
seeing it, because it opened up my eyes to see who actually gave me what I
have today.  It showed me who the true heroes of this world are.  Not just
this country but this world.  If it weren't for them I couldn't imagine what
it would be like.
This film showed me respect for all veterans of all wars.  You just have to
respect every soldier in all wars because they are fighting in what they
believe in, although we might not agree with some of their views.I would just like to to thank all veterans from the bottom of my heart and a
special thanks to Steven Spielberg.


******
10 February 1999
10

I'm so sick and tired of reading people's criticism about the last battle.
Have you ever heard the simple truth, that defending territory is easier
than conquering it?  It's absolutely true in all facets of life.  It's no
different in this case.  Even when the Americans prevailed in the end, it
wasn't Hanks and crew that delivered the decisive blow.  It was the P-51
tankbuster airplane.This movie is classic from start to finish.  You can't walk away
unaffected.I also feel the criticism saying the bookend cemetery scenes was unnecessary
is crap.  I thought those scenes provided intro and the proper closure to
the film.I know that the first time I watched the movie I was wondering who the old
man in the beginning was.In the end, I feel this is one of, if not THE, best film I've ever seen.
It's hard for me to understand the logic behind contrary
beliefs. 

******
9 February 1999
10

The subjective viewpoint of this film gives it a power we can only imagine
from reading about war. Spielberg's use of experimental shutters in his
cameras, his use of bleached and muted color and a masterful sound mix
recreate the shock and utter hellishness of combat. The audience is put in
the center of the action and knows what it is like to experience Omaha Beach
on June 6, 1944, and the fighting across Normandy in the weeks
after.Casting is superb. Each and every actor in this film is utterly perfect,
from Tom Hanks through the veteran Harve Presnell in a powerful cameo
appearance. The scenes of present-day Ryan visiting the cemetery cause me to
appreciate anew the sacrifices of my father's generation. Do I prize highly
enough what was done so I might inhabit this world free of Hitler and his
Nazi evil? God help me, I hope I do.The screenplay brilliantly introduces elements at perfectly timed intervals
to underscore the physical, emotional and mental suffering war inflicts.  It is the demon face of war.I ask my British cousins to not feel neglected or slighted in any way by
this film. The story's focus is on Americans in Normandy, June 6-15, 1944.
It could have been a movie about British, Canadian or Free French forces,
but it is not. It in no way diminishes, overlooks or ignores British or
other Allied contributions and  sacrifices, without which victory certainly
would not have been accomplished.Steven Spielberg deserves the thanks of every one on this planet for so
clearly defining the central issues of war in general and specifically what
is arguably the defining moment of the twentieth century, World War II. Let
the Oscar balloting reflect Spielberg's contribution to the world and to the
motion picture industry.


******
9 February 1999
10

Film has never captured the grand invasion with such accuracy and detail.
Never has the near defeat of the allies on the beaches of Normandy been so
graphically and accurately portrayed.
Every actor gave a performance equating the actual performance of the real
soldiers in this great endeavor; the accuracy of detail is unsurpassed in
cinema.
If anyone wants to know something about the horror of war, if they think
there is honor a glory in war, this movie is a must see.

******
8 February 1999
10

How stupid are you people? "American Patriotic Rubbish"?? Give me a break.
You people don`t know a good movie when you see one. You were apparently
looking for a "Rambo" clone. Get a life people.

******
8 February 1999
10

This is, by far the most incredible movie I've ever seen.  I
hope to see it many more times as well.  I also suggest that
you see it, if you haven't already.  The first 15 to 30 minutes
are some of the most gruesome and realistic moments of a war movie that I've
ever seen.  So be warned, those who can't take much or any blood and gore
should be wary about the first bit of the movie.  But if you can get through
that, it's an incredible movie.

******
7 February 1999
10

I was fortunate enough to see this movie during the second release, it was
my great misfortune to miss the first one.  You must see this movie in the
theater to get the full impact of it.My uncle who is a WWII veteran and who was also present during the D-Day
invasion has gained a whole new level of respect from me, this man has few
words to say about the war and after seeing this movie he needs not say
more.  That is how realistic, graphic, intense this movie
was. 

******
7 February 1999
8

The first 30 min. are worst - you can almost feel what these soldiers must
have gone through.
Even though people told me that it was terrible, I was almost shocked by the
opening.The end, however, is very typical American, and that's why I couldn't bring
myself to give the movie 10 points.But it's a very good film, and Steven Spielberg has done a wonderful
job.I liked it because of the actors and the story, but the end is too American
to me. 

******
6 February 1999
10

The "Cappella Sistina" of Michelangelo is esteemed the most beautiful
masterpiece of the western art of every times;
this work of art represents what of most perfect a man will never able to
carry out with a paintbrush and colors.
"Saving Private Ryan" of Spielberg will be esteemed the
most
beautiful masterpiece of the war movies of every times;
this work of art represents what of most perfect (touching, involving) a man
will never able to carry out with a camera
and actors.
It will make history!

******
4 February 1999
10

The graphic, ugly, realistic depiction of violence in "Saving Private Ryan"
sets this film apart from all other war movies.  There is no glory in
killing and dying here.But there is much more to "Saving Private Ryan" than just us versus the
enemy.  The film asks, "What is the group's responsibility to the
individual?  What is the individual's responsibility to the group?  What
price is too high to pay in fulfilling these responsibilities?"  Spielberg
in his film does not supply the answers.  If there are answers, it is left
to the audience to come up with them.


******
2 February 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan is the best film of 1998.  Why?  It is the most accurate
description that anyone living today will ever see of World War II combat.
It is visceral, it is gut wrenching and it was real.  What we are exposed to
in Saving Private Ryan was a meat grinder, and that's what the soldiers on
Omaha Beach faced that day.  Spielberg throws us into the melee and we are
there, we get to feel the dread as the boats come ashore.  We hear the
pounding bass of mortar rounds as they roar in from above, and we feel the
fear that the soldiers feel.  We don't know what's waiting for us on that
beach, and when those doors open, we step into hell.The camera work during this sequence is amazing.  You are disoriented, and
you don't know where the fire is coming from.  You try to make it to cover
as machine gun bullets tear into the beach and your fellow soldiers.  Mortar
rounds deafen you as they explode a few feet away, and you watch in a numb
horror as you see friends vanish before your eyes.  That's what war is, pure
and simple.  No time for thoughts on what the nature of God is or any of
that metaphysical junk, you're just thinking am I going to live?Saving Private Ryan lets us see what it was like to be a soldier in WWII.
We get to know each of the soldiers under Tom Hanks' command.  We feel the
loss of their lives because Spielberg invests time with these men.  We feel
their anger and resentment toward Ryan.  Why is he so special?  Why does he
get the ticket home and we get to stay here?  The more time we spend with
these men, the more we know them.  When they finally find Ryan, our view of
him changes.  He's not just some punk that the top brass sent us out to
find, he's a soldier.  He's one of us, and we'll do everything in our power
to get him out alive.You want a meditation on the nature of war and man and what God is?  Watch
The Thin Red Line and have your butt numbed.  You want an experience that
will linger with you for days?  Watch Saving Private Ryan, then ask your
grandparents about WWII.  See what they say.

******
2 February 1999
9

I'm only a teenager, so I never experienced WWII, I have of course studied
the war in school, however I never really understood the impact and terror
the men went through. Everyone warned me of the first 20 mins. but I never
thought they would be that intense. The movie was three hours, and I cried
through the entire three hours. All young people should go see this, so they
can get a feel for what these brave young men, gave up for the
country.

******
2 February 1999
9

I liked this film from top to bottom.  I have to disagree with other
reviewers (and there have been many) who claim the film is overly patriotic
in tone.  Have they noticed that the American flag shown at the beginning
and end of the film looks washed out, almost bled down?  I'm sure this is no
accident.  I felt that there was a message in that curiously colorless flag.
I somehow knew the instant that flag was shown that there were some bad
things to come.   It said to me that patriotism is a little hollow in light
of the fearsome carnage that people are put through in a war.  As for the
flag being American, well it was an American beach and the choice of the
U.S. symbol is entirely appropriate.  I would expect the Maple Leaf on Juno,
or the Union Jack on Sword or Gold beaches. This movie isn't really about
D-day in a grand sense anyway.I also disagree with those who say the "bookends" (boy do they love that
term) with the old man at the beginning and end are unnecessary.  Maybe it's
just me, but his reaction doesn't seem overly dramatic in light of what
transpires for him in this story (and other things that happened to many
people for real)  The thing of it is, it seemed absolutely necessary to
point the finger squarely at this generation of people.  We have a bad habit
of shrugging off or even never bothering to learn what it meant to live
through those days and times.  They're old men now, they look a lot like
that old man in the film.  Shouldn't the mantle rest on their shoulders?  Be
honest now, aren't you glad it was theirs and not yours to bear?  Give
credit where credit is due.  I think that this is a specific American story
aimed at everyone everywhere.  Not an American story aimed at only
Americans.  I would dearly love to see an honest treatment of the horrors of
the Eastern front, for both the Germans and the Russians and the hordes of
desperate souls trapped between them.  Now that would be
graphic. 

******
2 February 1999
10

Like someone, I forget who, wrote in, I can't wait to see this again when it
reopens on February 5.  Except for the last scene at the cemetery, which was
unnecessary, I can't think of a film that's moved me more all year.  The
fact that it's been coming under heavy criticism is yet another
demonstration that a vocal minority of people have a bug up their a** when
it comes to Steven Spielberg, and that's sad and shameful.  If he hadn't
directed this film, it would get unanimous acclaim as the best film of the
year.  But people can't handle that the man who made E.T. and RAIDERS OF THE
LOST ARK would make a serious film about the horrors of war.  For those who
say it's powerful battle scenes at the beginning and end and nothing but
cliches in between, I say hogwash!  Is it a cliche when Tom Hanks' character
is screaming at one of his soldiers not to save a child?  Ignore all the
Spielberg bashers, and if you haven't seen it yet, see it, and if you have,
see it again.

******
28 January 1999
8

The thing that hit me the most after seeing this movie was the way that the
audience, upon the turning on of the theater lights, simply rose as one and
walked silently out of the theater.  Not more than a word was said, and I
think that's the best compliment anyone can give this movie.  Out of all the
teenagers and Gen-Xers that were in the theater, not one of us felt
compelled to speak after watching this.  I can say that the opening sequence
hit me harder than anything I have ever witnessed in my (albeit short) life.
I found myself wrapping my arms around my knees, trying to hide my eyes but
unable to avoid the horror unfolding on the screen.  I actually felt like
somehow I was in danger.  The horror I felt as the soldiers stepped out of
the boats into the gunfire was gut-wrenching.  All the movies we watch in
school, all the History Channel specials don't even touch what this movie
touched, honestly.  I never realized the horror of what D-Day and this war
was until I saw this movie.  It took it out of the abstract and forced those
of us who have never had to live through a real war to see it as they did.
It makes me want to thank every one of the men who were in this war for what
they sacrificed for those of us who live here now.  I don't know if I would
be strong enough to handle it, and I hold as my heroes anyone who
was.About the movie in itself, I actually thought the scenes at the beginning
and end were touching.  A bit too theatrically staged, definitely, but I
thought it was a nice beginning and end for the movie.  The battle scenes,
enough said.  Phenomenal.  The one and only criticism I have is that I think
the script was a little weak in its character development.  I had a hard
time really feeling for the characters, and I think that maybe the battle
scenes were emphasized so much that we lost who the men really were.  It's
hard to develop characters while the audience is concentrating on gunfire.
However, this was an excellent, excellent movie, definitely, a 9 out of
10.

******
27 January 1999
7

The opening and closing battle scenes are among best I've ever seen, yet
the war torn cliches sandwiched in between are major detraction points, as
is the film's hypocrisy and the Ryan character himself, one of the worst
written characters since Jack Dawson told Rose of his bohemian days. Overall
Quite powerful stuff, and the cast (all except Ed Burns) is
spectacular.

******
25 January 1999
7

I'm waiting for the second run of SPR so I can see it for a third time. This
is not to say I loved this film or consider it to be the great masterpiece
so many have over-hyped it to be. I happen to love historical epics and WWII
is my favorite history subject along with the rarity of this type film these
days makes it the more desirable for me to view. I do concur with all the
rave about the opening beach landing being an intense awe-inspiring film
experience however the remaining two plus hours of the film are quite
ordinary and only the exciting battle at the conclusion of the film rescues
SPR from being a dull disappointment. I also find the battle at the end of
the film to be a contradiction to the opening battle and confuses the whole
message.  In the first battle we are in the middle of massive carnage and
gore and get the feel of being pinned down and what it's like to fear moving
an inch and being killed but if you don't move you will be killed anyway!
There is no false heroics only desperate men trying to stay alive and do
their job. This better than any battle I've seen on film convinces me that I
don't want any part of combat and there is nothing glorious about it and
those that endured through it deserve our greatest admiration and respect
which I believe is the primary message in the film.  The conclusion however
resembles the rousing old adventure war films of the past.  Capt. Miller has
found Ryan and has orders to bring him back to be sent home and this is his
mission but instead he is talked into defending an important bridge by Ryan
who doesn't want to abandon his comrades. We are then treated to an
exhilarating battle that does not nearly match the terror and gore of the
first and all the old W.W.II movie clichés start to show up. The rock hard
sergeant who feels no pain no matter how many times he is shot, Ryan and his
honorable loyalty to his men refusing to go home without having to risk his
life any longer and of course the cavalry saving the day at the end when all
appears lost !? I have a problem with films today dealing with war in that
they go out of there way to try and convey too many messages as I believe
there is a fear that its no longer politically correct or acceptable to make
a war film for the sake of entertainment.  I do believe there have been some
great war films with a message such as Paths Of Glory and Go Tell The
Spartans and others but there have been far too many that try too hard to
preach war is hell and so on and SPR is one of them. I'm not ashamed to say
that I prefer films like The Longest Day and Where Eagles dare as they are
more entertaining and far more successful at what they are trying to be. No
film today tomorrow or a hundred years from now will ever convey the horror
of war or will impact society's view of war alone.  Twenty years from now
some other war film will come along and SPR will seem tame in comparison but
it will still just be a movie like SPR is.   I went to see SPR for the
action and my W.W.II interest and was compelled only by those two things not
the weak story line or pretentious messages and syrupy drama. SPR is a good
film because of two great action pieces that hold up the long message laden
middle and if it wasn't for the cliched conclusion and Ryan simply returned
to the rear this film would not be seen by as many people who would have
been disappointed by a anti-climactic non action conclusion which is the
primary reason people view war films to see combat action not be preached at
about how horrible war is !


******
25 January 1999
10

I can't understand that someone dislikes this movie.
In my country you still hear the stories of this
bloody war and i assure you : it was one living hell.So, if you can't stand a realistic movie that tells us
exactly how it happened, maybe you should read Batman comics
instead.

******
22 January 1999
10

Every American (especially the younger generations) has an obligation to see
this movie for the sole purpose of having an appreciation of what American
soldiers (and any veteran from any nation) can and did go through to
preserve the freedom of their country.  Remember this movie on dedicated
holidays like Memorial Day and Veterans Day. 

******
20 January 1999
10

I'd like to say Amen to Allan-14's comment.  This movie is supposed to be a
tribute to those who fought in war by showing the rest of us ignorant people
what war is like.  I know you can't actually get there with a movie, but it
made me not want to partake in the real thing.  And it gave me a whole new
respect for those who have had the real thing.


******
19 January 1999
10

To me, "Saving Private Ryan" is more than the greatest war film ever.  It
was an experience that has left an indelible mark on my psyche.  And I'm
sure it would do the same for most who see it.This film opens our eyes and makes us truly aware of the utter brutality and
nightmare that is War.  People who see this film should realize that war is
nowhere near glorious; in fact, it shows us that war should be the last
thing that any of us, even "Hawks," would want to experience.I came away from this film with a new respect and appreciation for those
people who actually experienced combat like that seen in this film.  I can't
believe they had the will to do anything more than curl up in a fetal
position and simply wait for the fighting to end before
moving.In short, this film does something that needs to be done more often--it
de-glorifies war, but glorifies the courage exhibited by anybody that's ever
put on a uniform and fought for their country.Everybody should see this film.  Either to appreciate the heroism it takes
just to stand on a battlefield, let alone fight on it.  Or to reconsider
their thoughts when confronted about the prospect of war.Thank You, Mr. Spielberg, for opening our eyes. 

******
18 January 1999
5

It's realistic, it's gritty, it's interesting...sure.  It's just not THAT
interesting to me.  I don't think it's nearly as good as PLATOON, which I
consider to be the best war film ever. 

******
14 January 1999
10

I belive it is wrong of us to depict the average German soldier as being
evil.  I imagine each soldier as being a man.  That is enough.  Both sides
of this struggle were only men. 

******
13 January 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war movies that I have ever seen.
 From the opening scenes on D-Day to the finale at American bridgehead, the
movie never lost a beat in its portrayal of the American fighting men.  What
I liked about the movie was its simplicity of message.  It attempts to
historically document a time in history without much of the underlying
political messages.  Men did not fight for honor or courage like some of
Hollywood's creations would lead us to believe.  They did not fight to
purposely crush the enemy or defeat Hitler.  GI's fought for themselves and
the survival of their fellow men.  Saving Private Ryan also dispelled many
of the myths of war.  Anyone who thinks war is glorious and glamorous needs
to experience Spielberg's masterpiece.  War is not fun; it is hell, and
Spielberg conveyed that message very clearly in the opening battle scenes.
Men were being machine-gunned without knowing what had happened to them.
Yet there were moments in the movie where I felt that I had forgotten about
the war.  For example, before the final battle scene at the bridgehead,
American GI's were swapping back and forth stories about the homefront.  War
definitely has moments of comradeship as portrayed by Spielberg.  Overall,
it is one of the best movies I have ever seen.  Steven Spielberg creates yet
another masterpiece.  I loved the movie and would recommend it to anyone
(except small children, of course). 

******
12 January 1999
10

Spielberg takes a giant leap forward as a filmmaker with this amazing movie.
Beyond "entertainment," this film actually left me examining my own place
and responsibility in the world.  Lured in by a typically cliched Hollywood
war-film plot ("we've got to save Pvt. Ryan... for his Mama!") that plays to
our most romanticized notions of war, the film instead devolves into the
incoherent, bloody mess war actually is, and finally, with the closing
scenes, attains an allegorical plateau as it makes its true point - that we
are all "Private Ryan," enjoying lives of pleasure and freedom thanks to the
thousands of common men who united 50 years ago to destroy the most evil
human endeavor of modern times.  Bravo. 

******
12 January 1999
7

I hate to see a movie like Saving Private Ryan incomplete. It is a
masterpiece of a film but it could have been the greatest film ever made. It
is not. Spielberg was so close and yet Saving Private Ryan is not quite the
movie it should be. Don't get me wrong, it is an impressive film and I'm
glad I paid to go see it. The opening sequence on the beach is utterly
perfect - there are no other words to describe it, and Tom Hanks actually
performs a role that is definitely Oscar worthy (Philadelphia was overrated).
But there are mistakes Spielberg makes: The opening and closing shots of the
American flag - (didn't Spielberg see Minghella's 'The English Patient'?),
the use of the older Ryan attending the graveyard - completely unnecessary -
Spielberg should have left it during WWII; and finally the character focus
on Ryan - I had more interest in the Corporal Upham character played
brilliantly by Jeremy Davies. I felt that at times Spielberg was doing so
but then he switched back to Hanks and Damon's characters. It would have
proved more effective to use Davies' character as the main
protagonist.
But enough of the criticising - it is nevertheless still a fine film and I
think the only reason I find myself picking at these little things is my
disappointment in the fact that it could have been one of the greatest films
ever - and fell just a few feet short of it.

******
11 January 1999
9

This is the most realistic war movie that has probably ever been produced.
Realistic, in that sometimes I felt that I was actually in there ducking,
dodging, running and crawling.
As they were waiting at the bridge for the tanks it gave an eerie
feeling.
I am not a veteran so I can only imagine, the "waiting" for the enemy which
you know is coming would be quite harrowing, as against being in the thick
of the action where you don't get time to worry.Purists may complain that certain events would not have happened, but those
are just technicalities that do not detract from it being a superb film.(to
the layman in any case)
Although, I think I spotted a mistake too. (not a military or historical
one, just a minor production one) Just before they came across the guarded
radar, there was a long distance shot of them walking across a field in
formation. I counted 8 of them.
(It looks like the filmclip used when they first began their
mission.)War veterans don't like to talk about some of their experiences,
and having watched this movie I can understand why. Many would have seen and
done things that they now regret, such as murdering prisoners of war, acts
of cowardice, the making of crucial decisions that resulted in the loss of
our mens lives, inaction or hesitation and just being plain "scared".Other
war veterans would have many painful memories of the loss of friends and
relatives, and just the ugliness and horrors of war.I understand that the
age range of those that went to war were 18 to 21yr olds. Unbelievable! They
were just "kids".This movie has an R16 rating, however I have no worries about my 11 and 9
year old daughters viewing it, when it comes out on video.For the realistic depiction I give it a 10 out of 10.
For this movie I give it a 9 out of 10.

******
10 January 1999
10

Saving private ryan left me in total awe. I have been to hundreds of movies
and never have I heard such silence when the movie ended, not one person
spoke when the movie ended, not even the little teeny bopper girls who came
to see Matt Damon. I was left with ever growing respect for my elders for
what they went through during that war. All actors, with the exception of Ed
Burns, did a fantastic job. I highly recommend it. 

******
10 January 1999
7

This film lives up to much of its hype.  It is, in fact, a morally ambiguous
film about late World War 2, told from a soldier's perspective.  However, I
wasn't nearly as impressed with the entire film as I was with the truly
incredible opening sequence.  For much of its development, the film seems as
aimless as its characters, searching for accomplishment and meaning in an
otherwise chaotic environment.  Solid acting turns, although nothing
superlative, from Hanks, Damon, and Norton, especially. 

******
9 January 1999
7

For the most part, "Saving Private Ryan" is a film of great integrity and
honesty.  For the bulk of the breezy three hour length, I thought that
Spielberg had enough trust in his material to allow it to stand on its own.
No such luck.  In the final minute of the film, Spielberg unleashes a scene
that is so melodramatic and manipulatingly cloying that it severely
undercuts an otherwise fine film.  Spielberg needs to learn that his movies
can have a powerful message and leave a lasting impression without having to
tell the audience what he wants them to get from it. 

******
8 January 1999
10

More than anything else, I believe that eliminating the above myth (ref:
summary, above) was the thesis Spielberg was trying to communicate to the
so-called ''allies'' and especially the American public.  When one looks at
the attempt at glamour, beginning with TV shows that trivialised the
so-called "good war'' in the 1960s (e.g. ''Hogan's Heroes'', ''McCale's
Navy''), not to mention a warehouse full of WW2 flicks where soldiers fought
with clean uniforms on dirty beaches -- cranked into production beginning
not long after the Japanese surrendered aboard ship with two nuclear holes
where cities once sat -- one can certainly understand why Spielberg felt the
need to bring home this long-overdue message.Oliver Stone and others have already reminded us of how horrible was
Vietnam, and the DMZ on the Korean peninsula is a living reminder of that
war, but WW2 remained glamourised until relatively recent times.  While the
first 20 minutes of ''Saving Private Ryan'', following a brief but touching
introduction, have received much ''press'' -- and indeed that stretch of
film is quite an ordeal for the viewer having ANY level of sensitivity
whatsoever to get through -- it is the remainder of the film that will
convince you utterly that war of any kind is a useless waste.  Kudos go in
abundance to Spielberg & Co. and one quickly envisages at least 6-7 Oscar
nominations on the way, to include ''Best Actor'' (Tom Hanks -- who just
keeps getting better and better with age), Spielberg for ''Best Director'',
and the film itself for ''Best Picture''. Top rating (5 stars of 5) -- make
that six!


******
8 January 1999
10

The opening scenes of this movie are amazing.  You see Omaha Beach battle
and feel like you're really there.  Spielberg's directing is outstanding and
the acting is good too.  "Private Ryan" captures what it's like to be in
battle.  The cinematography effectively showed things from the characters'
perspectives.  This movie deserves best pic more than any other I've seen
this year.  If can handle SERIOUS violence, don't miss
it.

******
6 January 1999
10

I have a feeling from reading all these negative messages about the realism
of Saving Private that Spielberg has been grossly understood by the
majority.
Spielberg was not trying to make a super-violent war movie to persuade
people from war..he said himself that he hopes after people are done talking
about the the first 30 mins on the beach of Normandy that they would talk
about what the movie is really about - those WWII veterans, and the
sacrifice that they made for us so we can argue whether or not SPR is better
than Thin Red Line. I have never been so affected by a movie. All I hear is
people arguing that they didn't know about radar then or that the story is
not feasible and so on. These people unfortunately miss the symbolism which
is deeply rooted in this movie.
This movie cannot be summed up as it is too complicated - like a person.
Many feelings and thoughts went into this feel and they all come out. I do
feel that this is a truly great movie and the best one I have ever seen.I admit that it is a very American movie....but I do believe that the
French, Canadians and English can relate....
Saving Private Ryan is grossly misunderstood in its characters. I have heard
a lot of talk about how they are stereo-types and such.....hardly so but
none the less these thoughts are distracting you from the true meaning of
this film.
And please forgive me for rambling on. =))


******
3 January 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan is a great picture - no doubt about that! Even though I
think there's room for better yet. The first bit is wonderful realistic and
I like seeing someone who at last shows the battle scenes more or less as
they where. However it is not as choking as I would have thought by the
reviews. It lacks the final shot of realism and the element of chance or
coincident.Now chok in these pictures is of course important. You simply have got to go
out the cinema either before the ending or with a really bad taste in your
mouth! We owe that to the ones who fought and died! And so this film was not
"violent" enough! What about the random shootings on the beaches, the
lacking accidential killing of fellow soldiers or at least a more sombre
ending. Not this more or less happy ending which unfortunately is becoming a
Hollywood trademark.
But it is a fine movie...........................

******
2 January 1999
10

Probably by the time you get to my entry, you'll have made up your mind as
to whether or not to see this movie.  However, if the other 600 entries
still have you unsure... GO BACK AND READ THEM AGAIN!!  The film is
unbelievably good, extremely violent, but it's absolutely worth
enduring....  why're you still here.... go see it!

******
1 January 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is without a doubt one of the greatest films of all
time.  The first half hour is the most powerful 30 minutes in film history.
The questions raised in the film are sure to trigger discussions on the
value of human life.  The performances are fantastic.  This film is as close
to perfection as one can get.

******
27 December 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan
Rated:  R
For: Graphic Violence, Adult Langauge, Adult Content
Starring:  Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Ed Burns, Tom Sizmore
Directed by:  Steven Spielberg
Running Time:  2 hours 48 minutesWell, to start off, this movie should not be viewed by children under
15, that is, unless you want to teach your children about the real effects
of war.  This movie starts off with an older James Ryan at Omaha Beach, his
family behind him.  He has walked up to the marble gravestones that are
placed there in remembrance of the soldiers that dies at D-Day, which he
flashes back to.  In the flashback (which is simular
to Titanic as
in it being the whole movie) to the beginning of D-Day, with a shot of
Captain Miller (Tom Hanks), and his platoon of soldiers, who, before landing
on Omaha, vomit in terror, they hit the beach and two rows of soldiers are
taken out, the others dive into the water, a couple drown under the weight
of they're equipment, others dying before even hitting the beach.  For the
first half-hour of this masterpiece, I dare say "masterpiece" because that's
what
it is, the soldiers go through hell, a mess of blood, dead bodies, and gun
fire that'll make you appreciate those that went through that.  After that,
Captain Miller and his team of soldiers, on the mission to save Private Ryan
(Matt Damon), along the way save Ryan, they run into a run down radar tower,
a run down town, and several other things which leave them with unexpected
loses.  And the final battle may be the best, and most prolific  in
the
history of cinema, Tom Hanks delivers an Oscar worthy performance, Steven
Spielberg should get an Oscar for best director, and he proves his is the
greatest director of our time.  Edward Burns, Matt Damon, and Tom Sizemore
are also giving great perforances, along with guest appearances by Dennis
Farina and Ted Danson, this movie has major star power, a great plot, great
dialogue, and a great direction, all-in-all, this gets my vote for best
movie of
the year.  I give it an A+."Sometimes I wonder if I've
changed so much, my wife is even
gonna recognize me whenever it is
I get back to her ... and how I'll ever be able
to ... tell about these days like today."
Captain Miller

******
26 December 1998
8

The opening 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan are some of the most brutal
images put on screen. I don't care what you've seen before, this is
absolutely shocking. There were times when it was difficult to watch these
events flash in front of my eyes. War is not pretty, and Speilberg shows you
this in a way that will grab you, a man holding his intestines is crying for
his mother, another man who loses an arm confusingly tries to pick it up
with his other hand. You know that this is not gonna be a pretty
ride.Saving Private Ryan is Speilberg's follow up to last year's highly
underrated film, Amistad. Tom Hanks is Captain Miller, who gets word of
Private Ryan (Matt Damon), who lost all of his brothers in the war (he still
doesn't know it yet), Private Ryan is therefore granted a safe trip back
home, and it's up to Captain Miller and seven others to make sure that he
makes his return home as soon as possible. The only problem is that they
don't know exactly where he is, just somewhere behind enemy lines. The eight
begin their journey and on their way each of their characters are revealed,
we find out that Captain Miller, as tough as he is, wants nothing more than
to get out of the violence and tragedy that he has to deal with everyday. He
just wants to return home, as does almost everybody else.Speilberg is in top form again, and although it's not as perfect as his
masterpiece, Schindler's List, it does rank as the best film of 1998 (so
far). The performances are top-notch and incredibly real, especially Tom
Hanks' character.So what can you say? Speilberg has done it again. Never before has war been
shown so realistically before. If there is one film that can show the
atrocities that soldiers had to go through every day, SPR is the one. Is it
the best war film ever made?... I don't think so. But is it a damn good
one?... definitely

******
23 December 1998
10

Objectively, I consider movies as good and relevant based on the following:
a) it is based on true story; b) it has social impact ; and c) flawless. SPR
has met all these requirements and even more. Seeing the movie would stir
one's imagination, that will stay in one's consciousness for quite sometime.
The film is technically excellent and at par with other good war films such
as Platoon and Full Metal Jacket.  Congratulations to Mr.
Spielberg.

******
19 December 1998
10

I am an Officer of Marines and have been waiting for a war to depict war in
its entirety.  With this movie, the wait is now over.  All that is needed is
the smell of burning flesh and hair, and one would have a realistic
experience of the effects of war.  This movie is as real as it
gets.I have always wondered why my father (who was a Marine during the Korean
War) never mentioned the crazy things that happened to him during his two
tours of Korea.  He kept these things hidden within him and they only
surfaced around loud noises or when the mentioning of his old comrades was
brought up in certain circles.  You could see the pain and suffering that
hit him.  The movie's ending followed this as if my dad had written his own
autobiography.  Watching help myself answer these unknown questions and
prepared me more for what my job entitles as a leader of Marines.The best part of watching this movie was doing it near a military base.
Opening night the theatre was completely crowded with Marines and their
significant others.  The Marines enter cocky as usual; proud, confident and
ready to see another action war movie.  As I watched them leave with a
sobbing friend, I could see a new light in their eyes in the understandings
of the effects of war.  They were able to see the consequences of some of
their actions in future situations.


******
18 December 1998
10
This movie is a splendor.The opening battle scene will be
remembered as the greatest opening shots in movie history.Tom Hanks gives his
best performance of his life.In Saving Private Ryan all things are
relative.The film makes you think a DANGEROUS CONCEPT  not found often on
the screen? No waterboys needed here thank you.The film leaves you with a
feeling of being there in WW2.Platoon is the second most realistic war
film

******
15 December 1998
10

When I went to see this movie I said to myself OK another war movie, but I
was very wrong. I never cried in a cinema before but this time, at the end of
the movie, everyone was quiet a almost everybody was crying including me.
That movie showed me what a terrible thing is war.


******
15 December 1998
7

I really wanted to like this movie. The opening battle sequence was
unquestionably powerful, but not nearly as ground-breaking as people seem to
think. All Quiet on the Western Front and Paths of Glory plumbed similar
ground years ago. Private Ryan is a good war movie, but it is nearly
capsized by Spielberg's choking schmaltziness. He undercut the emotional
impact of Schindler's List with his syrupy sentimentality, and does likewise
here. I'm beginning to think he should go back to making children's movies,
where his tendency toward cloying sweetness is more excusable.BTW: Private Ryan is not an anti-war movie. It glorifies the sacrifices of
the soldiers and romanticizes their heroism. That's the same B.S. the
military has been feeding young men for centuries -- a lie that is exposed
and villified in All Quiet on the Western Front, Paths of Glory and The
Grand Illusion, among other true anti-war films. But sentimental Spielberg
doesn't get it. He can't resist his urge to make everything romantic,
idealistic, and maudlin. 

******
15 December 1998
7

I really wanted to like this movie. The opening battle sequence was
unquestionably powerful, but not nearly as ground-breaking as people seem to
think. All Quiet on the Western Front and Paths of Glory plumbed similar
ground years ago. Private Ryan is a good war movie, but it is nearly
capsized by Spielberg's choking schmaltziness. He undercut the emotional
impact of Schindler's List with his syrupy sentimentality, and does likewise
here. I'm beginning to think he should go back to making children's movies,
where his tendency toward cloying sweetness is more excusable.BTW: Private Ryan is not an anti-war movie. It glorifies the sacrifices of
the soldiers and romanticizes their heroism. That's the same bullshit the
military has been feeding young men for centuries -- a lie that is exposed
and villified in All Quiet on the Western Front, Paths of Glory and The
Grand Illusion, among other true anti-war films. But sentimental Spielberg
doesn't get it. He can't resist his urge to make everything romantic,
idealistic, and maudlin. 

******
14 December 1998
8

It was good to see the stupidity and wastefulness of war portrayed so well.
Only critcism - some overhead beach scenes were obviously not real.


******
12 December 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan's going to take a whole bunch of oscars and probably
best picture, but it shouldn't. Okay, it may be a realistic portrayal of war
and blah-blah, but let's look at it as a real MOVIE.  Tom Hanks doesn't
deserve any sort of oscar for this (he was good, but it's nothing Jim Carrey
didn't do ten times better in The Truman Show).  Matt Damon, let's face it,
reeked. Jeremy Davies gave about the only oscar-caliber performance in the
whole thing.  Any movie that opens with a shot of an american  flag can't be
too original. It must have been done by fifty other movies. The script was
pathetic, with some pretty dumb lines and not much of a story (if the script
is even nominated for an oscar, it'll show how low the academy sinks to meet
hype.) But every review of the movie gave it 5 out of 4 stars and so-on, and
I'm starting to get the feeling this is one of those movies the media almost
*forces* you to like, such as Titanic and Forrest Gump.  I'm not saying it's
not a decent movie.  It is very realistic, and the cinematography, sound and
art direction is great.  Jeremy Davies should at least be nominated for
something. And it's one of Spielberg's best directing efforts.  But as for
being the best war movie of all time.... to this day, nothing compares with
Apocalypse Now.
And if Saving Private Ryan wins over the Truman Show (heck, over
Pleasantville) then there's something seriously wrong. But that's just my
opinion.

******
12 December 1998
10

Sure, the plot was thin at times
(10 under-armed men stop an armed army)
Sure, the flag at the end was overkill
(....but remember Schindler's List's ending....)
Sure, the reference to 'monty' was insulting (and wrong)
(my dad had a fit over this)But really...get over it. This movie is not about specifics, but rather the
amalgamation of a serious, harsh and at times poignant images. So if you
thought the soundtrack was too loud (oh my bleeding heart)I suggest you go
home and crank DOWN the Enya music. For those who were disgusted by the
brutality, please understand that this was what it was like. War isn't meant
to be a nice, warm, fuzzy experience.Lastly...if you thought the movie wasn't a testimony against war...then what
the f**k where you watching?


******
11 December 1998
8

I am from Israel, used to hear about dead soldiers on the news. When such
horrible events happen, the radio starts broadcasting quiet, beautiful songs
and a feeling of deep sadness spread. I see in my mind fresh graves, the
teary faces of girlfriends, mothers, fathers and fellow
soldiers.But after watching Saving Private Ryan, I see other things.
Torn flesh. Pools of blood. Shattered bones. Impossibly
loud
explosions, raising dust and ashes. The cry of the wounded mixed with the
confused shouts of officers. I see bullets piercing chests and heads. It is
all live, horrible and shocking.Saving Private Ryan brings a new angle on War. The personal angle, that of a
single human being facing the horror of death around him, of blind chance
deciding whether he'll get wounded or killed or just scratched. Spielberg
managed to do what no director have done before - bring you inside a
battlezone and let you feel the chaos from within. You suddenly find
yourself crouched in your chair, not knowing when the next blow will come
from. Shaking with every bone of your body when a tank approaches. Ducking
when bullets come near.The film could have been a masterpiece, if the plot was more sharp, if the
characters were less flat and if the 'dirty dozen' ending was avoided. But
still, it's a must to see.

******
9 December 1998
8

Spielberg is back, but - there's something missing! In his new movie, "Saving
Private Ryan", Spielberg once again showed that he is one of the best
directors in the world. But the problem with this movie is in the script.
The beginning and the end of the movie, i.e. parts that take place in
present time, are redundant and belong in soap opera, not in movie. In the
scenes on Omaha beach solders die violently and realistically, but as the
movie develops it becomes more "Hollywood" movie, and less an intensive and
(relatively) realistic story about war. The most disappointing moment is the
one in which captain Miller dies. Why should he give his little speech
instead dying like all the others? Is he "better" than the others are? And
even if he is better (I don't think that he is) - so what??? In my opinion
the whole movie aims to justify war and tries to do so by proving that: a)
people get killed so that other can live, and b), war was horrible, but it
made this beautiful presence possible. And I don't like it when others
impose their opinion on me - I prefer to make my own conclusions.


******
4 December 1998
10

This is one of the most powerful war movies ever made.  It shows the realism
and horrors of war, and whether you like the movie or not, you will have a
greater respect for those who fought.  Today's treatment of veterans is
shameful, but movies like this will open some people's
eyes.

******
3 December 1998
7

I was 100% gripped by this movie all the way through.  Total action, great
and disturbing scenes of violence on a level of realism never before
reached.  This movie DID entertain me and was shocking.  But as an actual
movie it does fall down.For a start, nothing actually happens plot-wise.  The confrontation between
Hanks and Private Ryan when they finally meet is pure Hollywood rubbish.
This movies tries to be realistic but the illusion goes at parts like that.
On the same subject, people get mown down left, right and centre...yet our
core heroes have bullets bouncing around their feet and seem
immune.However these flaws are no less than you'd find in any other movie so I
think it is a victim of its own success.  Because the action and gore is so
realistic and gripping you expect too much from the rest of the
movie.One other thing in its favour was that it wasn't *too* over-the-top with
American schmaltz...however it was there a tad.God bless America!

******
2 December 1998
10

What can be said about this film which hasn't already been said.  The
acting, the setting, the cinematography simply captures your mind, heart,
and soul and brings you (sometimes dragging you unwillingly) on this journey
into one of the darkest yet most vital and necessary moments in our history
as a nation.  I think this movie provided many with an insight into the
reality of war on a level which has not been previously captured.  There are
scenes in this movie which once seen cannot be "unseen".  Images which will
last in your mind for a very long time and make you appreciate the sacrifice
of so many not so long ago.  We praise Firemen for their courage to stand
ready to enter a burning building to save a life.  How should we praise the
men and women in uniform who likewise stand ready to enter combat, at a
moments notice, to preserve our way of life.  Yet the latter group tends to
be praised or spurned with the changing of the political tides.  Every now
and then a movie comes along which can do something to correct such an
injustice in our mindsets.  This was one such movie.  It should become part
of high school or college history curriculums for either the study of the
history of war (though this was not based on a true story) or as a study in
human character and psychology, much as Moby Dick is a study of human
obsession with a task which must be accomplished.  I give this the highest
rating of 10 for the superb acting, the script, and the courage to show us
the realistic effects of war on people.

******
1 December 1998
10

I saw SPR way back in July and I have returned to see it a few times since.
I, like most everyone, seems to have had a strong reaction to the film's
brutal portrayal of 20th century warfare.
Being curious to see what others from around the country and around the
world thought of the film, I have returned to this page from time to time to
read people's comments. Upon reading some of these comments, I have a few of
my own.To those who thought the film was not perfect, but overall pretty darn good
- I agree.To those who thought the film was lousy - p*** off.To those who thought the film didn't have good character development - get a
life.To those who thought the film didn't have a good plot - what film school did
you say you went to?To those who thought the film was not anti-war enough - hello, the sixties
are over, then go back and see the film again.To those who thought the film didn't answer the meaning of life - read the
bible or do yoga, then lighten up, it's just a movie.To those who thought the film was too violent - war is undoubtedly worse
than this film or any other could ever portray.To those who thought the film was too "mushy" - ask any veteran about his
lost friends, (bring a tissue).To those who thought the film should have shown soliers from the other
nations involved in D-Day - it's an AMERICAN film about AMERICAN soldiers in
the AMERICAN invasion sector on an AMERICAN landing beach looking for an
AMERICAN paratrooper in an AMERICAN drop zone, enough said.To those who thought the film was too Pro American - spend the next 70 years
and billions of dollars in the country of your choice building your own film
industry and then make your own film about D-Day.To those who thought the film was too "Hollywood" - see my comment
above.To those who just want to take a poke at Spielberg - what have you done
lately?Finally, the right to freely express ourselves as we have all just done was
paid for in blood. Real people died to protect this right; to all
veterans...thank you.

******
29 November 1998
8

Firstly, I'm impressed at how many Australians have commented here on what
is clearly a very American movie in attitude and content.
Secondly, anyone who says this is easily the best movie they've ever watched
needs to watch more movies.
That said, this is an exceptionally well made film and definitely worth
seeing. The criticisms I have with the movie don't nearly outweigh its finer
qualities. Too many criicisms focus on what a movie isn't (and should be?)
rather than what it is. This movie attempts to provide some insight into the
horrors of war, without straying too far from the standard war-fare (cute
pun). I also felt a touch of the Cameron-esque (chiefly in the unnecessary
use of the flash-back but other things too). The 'hooray for America' line
that is so common is trundled out again, the only reference to the rest of
the Allies is criticism. I was impressed 'though that Spielberg didn't try
to suggest that American soldiers were flawless saviours. The execution of
prisoners was an important part of this.
The comments of others seem to suggest some tenuous holds on reality. The
camera work in the battle scenes could be jerky, but I thought it was
effective and didn't last too long. The bloodshed was unpleasant and
realistic, but not real. If this movie made people a little more educated
about how horrific war really is, how chaotic and terrifying, all the
better. I am not sure 'though that some glory did not attach itself to
Miller's team and their deaths.
Lastly, I was impressed that, although this was a long movie, it didn't feel
it at all. It held my attention the whole time.
Anyway, enough already. Very good movie, 8/10 (9 being my highest - no such
thing as a 10 in art). Definitely worth the price of a ticket, even in the
home of costly movie tickets. 

******
28 November 1998
9

Steven Spielberg has created the greatest war movie ever seen in the history
of cinema. It takes the audience into battle and has you looking for a way
out. For the characters in the film there is no way out and survival is pure
luck.
Finally this generation will be able to recognise why our grandfathers hold
annual ceremony to their fallen comrades. Not in a glorification of war but
in solemn remembrance to those they fought with but didn't return home.
Thanks to the efforts of Spielberg, the generation of today should carry on
their tradition and remember too.

******
27 November 1998
10

This is one of the best war movies that I ever seen in my life. The OMAHA
beach part looks like real. One of the GIs got his head blown off by a MG-32.50 caliber and that's what you call it real war, not like John Wayne style
of war movie. The movie has a plot and the effect, sound, etc really grasp
the audience. Moreover, what the film really delivers is that no one really
wins in a war, but it is important that young people know about the
past.Yet it was an allied campaign and forces from the British empire and
Australia were totally involved. It would have been nice if the Australians
got a mention somewhere in the movie.


******
27 November 1998
8

A very good movie. Beautiful pictures, good acting and good sound. The only
thing that disappointed me was the typical American script. The story about
bringing back private Ryan was so typical for Hollywood. But the rest of
the film was so intense that you almost forgot this annoyance.Saving Private Ryan is a film I will recommend to everyone with a strong
stomach who wants to see a good movie.

******
26 November 1998
10

I have never ducked or weaved in a film.
I have never imagined the true horrors of war.
I have never understood cowards in an army.
I have never felt how it would be like "being there"....
...until I saw "Saving Private Ryan"

******
25 November 1998
10

This film is an amazing piece of film. The first thirty minutes are at the
height of cinema anywhere - sound design is awesome. However, the film
continues from such a prodigious sequence and actually improves as we get to
know the finely constructed characters. The film is a visual masterpiece,
more than complimenting any of the dialogue. No one can tell a story through
images like Spielberg can, and that's why people call him "simplistic."
However, only high minded critics that want a greater 'text' would say this
- In reality, the great text comes through the images, which is what film is
really about.The battle sequences are constructed with greatness. The editing is
outstanding, especially the sound editing, which is amazing (the
fear/security contrast that Spielberg always uses is demonstrated between
the sound of the bullets in combat, and the ticking of the typewriters.
Another bullet like sound used effectively is the rain drops). This is
undoubtedly a great film. It is in my mind, highly anti-war, and the first
thirty minutes are perhaps the most eloquent statement of that - for no
other film maker has really captured an anti-war message by expressing the
sheer chaos of an event that saw thousands sacrificed before they even got
out of the landing craft. This film will raise many issues and ignite much
debate - the film may look deceptively simple, but behind it lie many issues
that run very deep.

******
25 November 1998
6

"First person perspective" shaky camera cinematography (a-la TV's NYPD Blue)
distracts the viewer rather than enhances. Mainly during the beach-head
scene, a lot of the motion of the camera should have been "steadied".
(anyone running usually does not see the world as a shaky
mess)Overall a very gory account of what war is, but is it necessary?

******
25 November 1998
10

This is no doubt Spielberg's best one. I have seen most of his movies and
this is truly something. I left the theater crying. I don't (never) cry on
movies. The first action scene of this movie is nothing like I have ever
seen. Go watch this movie. This is The best war movie ever made. You are
going to thank me after you watch this great masterpiece.

******
24 November 1998
8
...in a way that only Spielberg could. Really, if the man wants to be
realistic, you can expect reality. Nothing in recent memory can surpass the
impact of that beach landing carnage. It's the hideous, laughing face of War
personified, and seeing that is the most disturbing aspect of this
film.Unfortunately, I have to agree that the work as a whole seemed flawed. To
put it bluntly, it's a story reminiscent of an episode of Combat (now that
someone brought it up), plus some movie-scale battle scenes. All bound by
that flashback structure. It all held together all right, but just a tad
less satisfactorily. It's painfully (yet distantly) similar to what Titanic
suffered from.Nonetheless high production values, all-round good performances, and an
undeniable capacity to put you "right there" in the middle of the action
(the apprehension was almost unbearable during the early moments of the
final battle) far outweigh the gripes. Heck I still ended up giving it an
8/10. That's a "Go watch it!" rating.

******
23 November 1998
10

I've just gotten back from the cinema, and let me say this.  This is a
masterpiece, easily the best film which I have ever seen.It has left me shocked, horrified and numb.  The fact that anybody could
have survived what is depicted in this movie amazes me.  It has made me
truly think about war, about my family's and Australia's of it, and gives me
a new meaning for the phrase "Remember then for what they have done for
us."No wonder WWII vets left the theatres in tears.


******
23 November 1998
10

This is Spielberg's best film since Schindler's List.  As with all his WWII
movies Spielberg gets his best performances out of his actors.  Tom Hanks
does more with his eyes in this movie than most actors can do period.
Saving Private Ryan, like 99% of all war films, is a protest film.  It tells
us why we should not go to war simply by showing us what war really
is.

******
18 November 1998
10

this was the best war film i have ever seen and i have seen a lot. it was
inspiring, awesome and very true to life on D day

******
18 November 1998
8

Couldn't be bothered to read all the comments, but it seems like
everything's been said. But I would like to add that whilst SPR is a damn
good movie, and that the actual depiction of war reaches a new level of
realism (and this is mainly WHY it is such a landmark movie), various parts
of it have been ripped off (for want of a better expression) other, better
movies.The 'shellshocked perspectives' (where everything goes silent during the
intense battle-scenes) appear to have been lifted from Kurosawa's (far
superior) "RAN", particularly the much talked about 'man-picks-up-severed-arm'
shot.The inexperienced non-infantry soldier attached to the squad idea was put to
far better use by Wolfgang Peterson in "DAS BOOT", and the basic plot
outline doesn't really deviate from the standard WW2 action movies that the
film critiques.In the Mr Showbiz interview, Spielberg said he was trying not to use the war
as a "springboard to false adventure", but he has instead used the war as a
springboard to re-examine the 'adventure' of war. The war itself is
marginalised, the experience of war is the subject, and is examined simply
through the harrowing recreation of it.Mr Showbiz also compared the film's opening scene to that of "The Wild
Bunch", and it does have the same power. The difference is that the latter
film would maintain a certain greatness MINUS the violence, whereas SPR
rides on the power of its opening scene.As pure technique, Saving Private Ryan is genius, and ranks among the most
noble achievements of cinema in recent memory. But as an original work of
true greatness, it is something less.
9 out of 10.

******
17 November 1998
10

No movie has ever moved me more than "Saving Private Ryan"  You know a movie
is a great portrayal of war when you get shell-shocked from watching it.  I
positively shuddered throughout the entire movie.I saw this movie with a friend of mine.  Normally we stay to watch the
entire credits.  We make our comments, give a rating, and go home.  I could
not move if I wanted to.   For several full minutes after the credits had
stopped and the lights returned, we both remained speechless and motionless.
It is THAT powerful.  Amazing.  On the way home it took me a while to
notice that I was driving well below the speed limit.  My hands gripped the
steering wheel tighter than they had ever before.
When we got home, we stood outside my house for two hours, simply talking
about the movie, about war, about what it MEANS to be human.  Any movie that
can do all that and then some, has got to be the greatest of all time.  On
this scale, a 10.  On my scale, 9.8.  (9.8 is the highest rating I have ever
given a movie)

******
15 November 1998
8

First... there was a comment from someone about taking
their
8 year old step-daughter to this.  Yeah, let's show a child the horrors of
war in a brutally realistic fashion and then tell
everyone here what a freakin' idiot they are to drag an
eight
year old to this movie.  I'm a parent and there are films which obviously
are ones they should not, under any circumstances
be exposed to.  #1--they have nightmares  #2 --they are very very much
bothered by many of the scenes and are told --don't worry it's only a
movie--although it's a pretty damn accurate one about a real event with
fictional characters  #3--they are numb to depictions of violence, filmed,
or real.  They might not
differentiate too much between film or real life and therefore
might have a tendency to act in a violent way or be attracted
to violence and shock... in order to FEEL something...
because
they are numb most of the time....You get the idea.Okay the film has some flaws. The framing device doesn't
work
particularly well and feels .. well like an attempt to do
what
Speilberg in Schindler's List.  If the movie is a character's
memory, then why are some scenes not possibly the memory of
the
character?Not a serious flaw but a really unnecessary device to use inthe film.The characters are not particularly well-drawn, and what little back story
they do have (with the exception of Hanks) is very
cliche'd stuff.These things don't matter much however over-all.  It depicts
in
a gruesomely realistic and emotional way what war is about.
And that's a feat that has rarely been accomplished.This is a powerful anti-war film for the coming millennium, much as All Quiet
on the Western Front was in the 1930's.There is a minimal amount of pathos and sentimentality in the film, and what
there is, although cliche'd, works to some degree.There are some wonderful moments.  The man who picks up
his
own arm (or is it leg) on the field of battle.  The young man who is amazed
his helmet has saved his life.  He takes off his
helmet looks at the dent where the bullet was  and then....
that's right... he gets shot in the head and dies.The nervous breakdown Hanks house in the battle.The inability of the interpreter character to be a hero and
save
someone's life....during the final battle scene.
More affecting perhaps because some of the film does resort
to
cliche's.  But not here.  When you really want it to.  When
you
hope it will.   It doesn't, making the scene more powerful.Bravo.Please stop letting your kids see violence in movies.  Sex
and
language is one matter and isn't going to hurt them.  Violence
particularly realistic violence (not slapstick or cartoon)
is
having an effect on young children.  DON'T BRING THEM TO VIOLENT FILMS
PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE...

******
13 November 1998
10

Wow. One word that sums up the whole film. I was totally blown away with it.
Steven Spielberg did such a fantastic job with 'Saving Private Ryan',
furthur boosted by one of the strongest and best performances in Tom Hanks'
career. For those of you who manage to sit through the first twenty-five
minutes of carnage, you will be totally blown away by what one can easily
call, 'the greatest war movie of all time'. I was in awe of the feat Steven
Spielberg has accomplished. Some may place it alongside 'Schindler's List'
as his greatest achievement. Me, I rate it higher.Seeing the film in a cinema, with surround sound, places the audience in the
middle of the D-Day Invasion. Gruesome as it may be, the opening scene may
well be looked upon in the future as one of the most memorable and impacting
scenes in cinematic history. With strong back-up performances from the
relatively young supporting cast, 'Saving Private Ryan' will no doubt go
into the 1999 Academy Awards as favourite to take the honours in several
main categories, including best actor (Hanks), best director (Spielberg), and
best picture.It has opened the door to reality. The public can finally see what war was
really like. Frightening. Some veterans have received counselling after
seeing the movie. But finally we have a realistic war film. 'Rambo',
'Apocalypse Now', 'The Deer Hunter'. None of the myths of war these films
have created. 'Platoon' is the only realistic war film in recent memory.
Yes, they are all Vietnam movies. But give me an example of a decent World
War II movie. Alongside, or even above, 'Das Boot', 'Saving Private Ryan' is
a classic World War II film. A modern
classic. No more, no less. Congratulations to Steven Spielberg on such a
fine effort.


******
13 November 1998
9

What can I say, I was gobsmacked within five minutes of this fast and
frighteningly realistic war movie. During the first battlescene on the beach
my heart was pounding out of my chest and I was nearly sick in my popcorn,
the portrayal of the landings was so accurate I could cry. I have great
knowledge of the D-Day landings having read books, been to France and
strolled around the museums for the 50 year anniversary and watched many
films and thus I can say with all sincerity that this is the most realsitic
yet. Other films such as 'The Longest Day' do not really show the full
horror of D-Day whereas in SPR I felt as if I was their experiencing the
soldiers fear and anguish, it was fantastic.
As for the claims that 'without the two battlescenes it wouldn't be any
good' they are rubbish, their is still plenty of tense and exciting moments
in between to keep me happy, anyway if it just consisted of battlescenes all
the way through my heart would have packed up. Also in this months Total
Film two people have written in letters that suggest that SPR has no
substance and character development. I do not agree with these statements as
you really have to look into the film and what it's about to get something
out of it. I could tell you something about all of the eight men as the
characters were developed in such a way that was probably realistic for the
period. You have to realise that this is a war film not some movie about a
man trapped in a TV show (Truman Show), so character development is not as
important in this case although it is still crucial for a good
film.
Also the cinematography is excellent. Mr Spielberg used a slightly slower
film than normal during the battlescenes to give the feeling of speed and
this is why I spent the first 30 minutes with my heart in overdrive, the
direction from Mr Spielberg was as ever excellent. He attempted something
new in the portrayal of injuries and deaths (guy picking arm up off the
beach, German sniper, knife in chest close up) and I was overjoyed yet
disturbed. For too long film directors have side stepped the brutal reality
of war. I also liked the way war is not glorified as invariably happens in a
war film.
In all a great movie which had the right blend of ingredients for a war
movie and it has now replaced Platoon (Oliver Stone) as my favourite war
movie. It is a particuarly exciting  but moving film and I will look upon
war in a different light from this day forth. 

******
13 November 1998
6

This was probably the singularly most effective, deterring war movie ever,
but who was it really about? I didn't see a real main character throughout
the movie. Tom Hanks's character does not have much to do except bark orders
and be the remote leader, and Pvt. Ryan himself we only get to know after
two thirds of the film. The only interesting character was the interpreter
guy, but he was treated like a minor character.
In the end, this means that this movie was about World War 2, which was
terrible. Well, I had figured that out before.

******
13 November 1998
8

I like war-movie very much, but I've never met a war-movie for a long time.
But this film is so realistic that it can remind me the TV series
'Combat',which is the most favorite war-film for me.But I had a headache after seeing this movie because of those
sounds.Thank you

******
12 November 1998
10

I loved the movie.  It is the best movie of 1998.  Give that movie at least
ten Oscars.

******
12 November 1998
8

No one can deny American movie makers, and Spielberg is a king, can produce
the best technical effects in movies.   This movie also has some wonderfully
personable stars.   (Tom Hanks is great, and I liked the sergeant, too.)
And the human scenes are tastefully understated - no brash posturing here.
This is Hollywood art.  But under the beautiful technical veneer, is there
anything more here than an incoherent collection of cliches?Is consistent thought or feeling or fundamental honesty too much to ask?
What is the point of making another movie about World War II after all this
time?   What does this movie say that so many others have missed, if
anything?  War is a serious subject - "serious" is a drastic understatement,
if you happen to be in one - one that a new generation knows nothing about.
And it doesn't look as if the world has made any progress in avoiding them,
since the one depicted here.I think it's dishonest to play the patriotic sentimentality card with such
intensity while claiming credit for condemning war.   To show blood and guts
is not necessarily to say that war is wrong - only that it is unpleasant, or
possibly, exciting.   Is shooting prisoners really wrong?   Or only what you
gotta do, and the mark of a real man?   Is war really senseless?  Or is it a
patriotic duty, well worth giving your life for?I have never been in a war, but I promise you war is a lot worse than what
you will see here.  

******
8 November 1998
10

Steven Speilberg has once again amazed audiences world wide.  His newest
movie, Saving Private Ryan is the most realistic war movie ever made.
Stunning performances from all cast members especially Tom Hanks, who should
win the academy award, Tom Sizemore and newcomer Barry Pepper.  The
realistic first twenty minutes and the last battle are incomparable to any
movie ever made.  This movie is not anti-German, but anti-war, a first in a
long time. This movie does not glorify death, but shows it as it is,
especially in war, horrible.  This is an amazing movie that should be shown
to all children to show them that death is not glamorous, contrary to most
movies, news, and TV shows, show it to be.  

******
7 November 1998
10

Wow. One word that sums up the whole film. I was totally blown away with it.
Steven Spielberg did such a fantastic job with 'Saving Private Ryan',
furthur boosted by one of the strongest and best performances in Tom Hanks'
career. For those of you who manage to sit through the first twenty-five
minutes of carnage, you will be totally blown away by what one can easily
call, 'the greatest war movie of all time'. I was in awe of the feat Steven
Spielberg has accomplished. Some may place it alongside 'Schindler's List'
as his greatest achievement. Me, I rate it higher.Seeing the film in a cinema, with surround sound, places the audience in the
middle of the D-Day Invasion. Gruesome as it may be, the opening scene may
well be looked upon in the future as one of the most memorable and impacting
scenes in cinematic history. With strong back-up performances from the
relatively young supporting cast, 'Saving Private Ryan' will no doubt go
into the 1999 Academy Awards as favourite to take the honours in several
main categories, including best actor (Hanks), best director (Spielberg),
and best picture.It has opened the door to reality. The public can finally see what war was
really like. Frightening. Some veterans have received counselling after
seeing the movie. But finally we have a realistic war film. 'Rambo',
'Apocalypse Now', 'The Deer Hunter'. None of the myths of war these films
have created. 'Platoon' is the only realistic war film in recent memory.
Yes, they are all Vietnam movies. But give me an example of a decent World
War II movie. Alongside, or even above, 'Das Boot', 'Saving Private Ryan' is
a classic World War II film. A modern classic. No more, no less.
Congratulations to Steven Spielberg on such a fine effort.

******
6 November 1998
9

I can't see why everyone thought this movie was so great. The plot was
improbable, and the whole movie was two big battles spewn together over 3
hours. There was no real drama to it. On the plus side, the acting was OKAY,
and the characters were enjoyable, but overall, just a senseless war movie.


******
4 November 1998
10

If someone expects a movie to capture the real feelings, events, and horror
of what WWII soldiers felt during the war, then they had better re-evaluate
their own reality.  It is true, no movie can ever give true credit to the
real feelings of WWII soldiers, but Saving Private Ryan seems to come close.I have never been close to being in a war or even in the military, but
Saving Private Ryan has given me new respect not only of WWII, but of all
our armed forces today.  In these days, it seems freedom in America is
something that almost has naturally always existed. Most children and teens
don't realize the sacrifice that has been made to bring about that
freedom.
Steven Spielberg, has crafted a movie to bring that lost reality of war to
us who do not fully understand the terror of it.  The details in this movie
especially in the opening battle scene, allowed me some idea, although can
never do justice, of what my grandfathers had to endure.
I was truly impacted in more ways than I had expected before viewing the
movie.  This movie has succeeded in making people think seriously about life
and death and what it all means.  I think we need more of that in
America.
I have to say this is my favorite movie of all time, but I hate the fact
that it ever had to exist in the first place.

******
4 November 1998
9

Saving Private Ryan is one of the most frighteningly realistic movies I have
ever seen. The sound effects are awesome, you almost feel as if you are
there with bullets zipping around you. The visual fx are excellent and more
importantly realistic and believable.
I have only two problems with SPR; 1. It seemed as though the only people in
Normandy were the Germans and the Americans. What about the British,
Canadians, and all the others that fought?
2. The jeeps and troops which all of a sudden appear when the P-51's
arrived.
Other than that I thoroughly enjoyed this movie.
Congratulations to Spielberg.
This film deserves at least the following Oscars: Best Picture, Best Sound
Editing, Best Visual Effects, Best Score. And a swag of others which I can't
remember.


******
3 November 1998
9

Never I've experienced a similar feeling watching movies.
I was anguished for the rest of the night.
This is actually virtual reality.

******
3 November 1998
6

There is no doubt that the movie has some great war-scenes,
but it becomes to much in the end. Furthermore the story
is very poor and has no surprises.

******
3 November 1998
10

The most intense battle recreation I have witnessed. Superbly choreographed.
The SDDS puts you in the middle of it.

******
2 November 1998
8

This movie really says: "Give us all the Oscars!" The effects
are good, but this movie is made to win all the Oscars
and
that's why it's not that good. But I still have to say that
it's
the best second world war movie I've ever seen.

******
31 October 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is the best film I have ever seen.  It is unforgettable.
I really cannot wait to see it for a third time.  The second time I saw it
it had the same effect as when I saw it the first time.  Everybody has to
see this film.

******
30 October 1998
10

Well. Titanic, beat this, I don't care how many awards you got, this one takes
my vote, after watching this I decided not to join the army. This movie
earns **** stars from me.

******
30 October 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is not only the best war movie ever made, it is the best
MOVIE ever made.  Tom Hanks is superb and so is his supporting cast.  I
especially liked the performances by Giovanni Ribisi and Barry Pepper.  This
movie is sure to win best picture, and Steven Spielberg, Tom Hanks, and
Jeremy Davies already have their Oscar acceptance speeches
memorized.
IF YOU HAVE NOT SEEN THIS MOVIE YET-- SEE IT NOW!!

******
29 October 1998
8

I am growing very weary of these Spielberg films that are
just jam packed with `emotional pauses'. It's just too much!
Okay, I can accept a few important moments in a film in
which
the background music winds up and the action slows down
and
we get a `poignant moment' but these films have one of
these
moments on average about every five minutes. This film
was
bad enough but Amistad was far worse.

******
28 October 1998
7

Now I know that I am in the minority, but I left "Saving Private Ryan"
extremely disappointed.  I loved the first half hour and the last half hour,
but the remaining two hours was a drawn out generic film with poor character
development and a throw-away plot.  The only character who evoked any
emotion was Jeremy Davies' overly sympathetic translator.  All the rest were
a bunch of bad Hollywood stereotypes (the guy from Brooklyn, the hardass,
the mysterious commander... etc.).  and the acting made the movie even
worse.  I love Ed Burns as a director but think he is awful as an actor
(especially after viewing this film), and Tom Hanks assumed his standard
heroic role doing little to draw all of the Oscar attention that has come
his way.
The two portions that made this movie worthwhile were the two battle
scenes in which Spielberg masterfully placed us in this horrifying world.
but I would have been just as satisfied if the movie consisted of just these
two parts leaving out all the excess garbage.  And with that you can proceed
to hunt me down and have me tarred and feathered.

******
27 October 1998
10

This is a visually effective war film, the best I have ever seen.  The
actors were top-notch.  Finally, Edward Burns will get recognized for the
brilliant talent he is.  Tom Hanks gave a better performance here than in
"Forrest Gump."  Usually, I hate watching movies that are three hours long,
but watching this film, I wanted it to be longer.  A much better film than
the OVERLY-HYPED "Titanic." This is Steven Spielberg's very best motion
picture.  If there was a movie to sweep the Oscars this year, I hope it will
be "Saving Private Ryan."

******
25 October 1998
8

Great gory realistic battle scenes.  Some unrealistic stupidity in the plot
(gee, all my bros are dead - think I'll stay here and get killed too) etc.
Bad guys baaaaad.  Good guys gooood.
Not a word about the fact that both sides sent kids into a meat grinder,
that kids on boths sides were scared as hell.  The one German we are
supposed to feel something about comes back later to kill kill
kill.And when push comes to shove, and the bridge should have been blown...poor
plan.  C'mon guys.  Were these guys supposed to be idiots?  I can think of a
lot more defensible positions & solutions.Go see 'A midnight clear' as it is a better movie in many respects and tries
to leave you with the notion that the enemy were little different than
ourselves.This movie was good but left me without much feeling.  "Deer Hunter", "Das
Boot", and "Patton" made me feel something.  Heck - even the older movies
with limited high-tech effects, such as "Great Escape", "Twelve-o-clock
High" and "Stalag 17" made me feel something more than this movie made me
feel.Nowhere near as powerful as Titanic so I hope this one does not get stuffed
down our throats as best picture.

******
21 October 1998
8

First, this is a good movie. I gave it an eight out of ten. But to all of
you who have called it the greatest war-movie ever; you haven't seen enough
movies. It may be the best American war-movie, but it isn't nearly as good
as for example "Stalingrad", or "Das Boot". It starts out very good, the
famous first twenty minutes are really very good. But then it deteriorates
steadily. Especially, it is very one-sided. Some people say it's an anti-war
movie, I can't agree with that. This movie shows only the allied soldiers as
human, and the Germans as faceless monsters. The real horror of war is that
there are ordinary scared young men on both sides. This dimension is lost
completely in this movie.

******
19 October 1998
8

I don`t know if it is the better war film ever made. I don`t know if
other ones can make a better film. From now I have a
before and after "Saving...".
I think all the people must see this film, to know what happened in a war,
and think more before to support one.
In this movie we can see all the suffering, the agony of anyone who stay in
a war.
Thank you.Mario

******
18 October 1998
10

Best war movie ever done!! fantastic!!
first 30 minutes very realistic, that´s the real D-day.

******
17 October 1998
10

This movie is great!  I love the scene with the semi-war in the battered
town.  If you haven't seen this movie before, you will stay on the edge of
your seat till the end!

******
17 October 1998
10

Never have I been so affected by a movie. To know, in part, the price our
fathers paid for us to live as we do is staggering. I left the theatre with
a form of shell shock that made my serene life in America seem surreal.  I
can only say "thank you" with all my heart to the men and women who fought
and died, worked and cried through a horrific war that was won only by the
grace of God.  Thank you, thank you.


******
16 October 1998
10

Wow. One word that sums up the whole film. I was totally blown away with it.
Steven Spielberg did such a fantastic job with 'Saving Private Ryan',
furthur boosted by one of the strongest and best performances in Tom Hanks'
career. For those of you who manage to sit through the first twenty-five
minutes of carnage, you will be totally blown away by what one can easily
call, 'the greatest war movie of all time'. I was in awe of the feat Steven
Spielberg has accomplished. Some may place it alongside 'Schindler's List'
as his greatest achievement. Me, I rate it higher.Seeing the film in a cinema, with surround sound, places the audience in the
middle of the D-Day Invasion. Gruesome as it may be, the opening scene may
well be looked upon in the future as one of the most memorable and impacting
scenes in cinematic history. With strong back-up performances from the
relatively young supporting cast, 'Saving Private Ryan' will no doubt go
into the 1999 Academy Awards as favourite to take the honours in several
main categories, including best actor (Hanks), best director (Spielberg),
and best picture.It has opened the door to reality. The public can finally see what war was
really like. Frightening. Some veterans have received counselling after
seeing the movie. But finally we have a realistic war film. 'Rambo',
'Apocalypse Now', 'The Deer Hunter'. None of the myths of war these films
have created. Yes, they are all Vietnam movies. But give me an example of a
decent World War II movie. Alongside, or even above, 'Das Boot', and perhaps
'Platoon', 'Saving Private Ryan' is a classic war film. A modern classic. No
more, no less. Congratulations to Steven Spielberg on such a fine effort.


******
16 October 1998
10

Wow, for just under 3 hours I laughed, I cried, I was on the edge of my seat
and I was craving a cigarette!  This is the most exhausting movie I have
ever seen.  I staggered out of the theatre a shadow of my former self.  I
don't know if I have the stamina to see it again, but don't wait for the
video.  The big screen is the only place this movie belongs.
phew!

******
16 October 1998
10

Actually, the one-liner actually covers it.  Growing up at a time when
personal sacrifice is not emphasized or encouraged among the youth of
America, Saving Private Ryan gives me a new sense of what the generation of
my grandparents went through so I could know the world as it is
today. From the "movie" point of view, this is definitely an excellent movie.
Spielberg has mastered the art, and he proves it yet again with a new style
of cinematography, putting the audience in the foxhole with the soldier
instead of on the outside looking in.  A masterful performance is turned in
by Ed Burns, but the real art comes from Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies, and of
course, Tom Hanks.  Though Matt Damon is one of the headliners, his
performance is short and solid, but lacks the great emotion that earns
Oscars.  The great performances in my opinion are by Jeremy Davies, who
masterfully portrays an unexperienced soldier/translator in the heat of
battle, and by Tom Sizemore, who portrays a hard core, experienced, loyal
sergeant that hasn't been seen in the movies since John
Wayne.Everyone should see this movie at least once in their lives.  The acting is
great, the story is great, and the realism is shocking.  Its wrenching tale
and realistic portrayal of war should give everyone a new appreciation for
the American flag and for the independence we call freedom.

******
16 October 1998
8

I watched the movie today and I was quite surprised about the violence shown
in it. I'm not unused to that, but seeing this and knowing that it was and
IS reality was a real hard trip.
However, I think it's OK to show how brutal war is in the real world. Maybe
it's good for all the youngsters to see that a man, who was shot, isn't dead
at once and how war really works. "Saving Private Ryan" is no movie about
heroes and clean fights with some blood running down the cheeks. It's
reality, how it was and how it is. And it's worth seeing
it.

******
15 October 1998
10

Steven Splielberg has again created a masterpiece that not only gives us a
accurate potrail of the horrors that occurred during the war,but also sends
out a plea human kind to understand that no one wins in
war.A steller cast,lead by Tom Hanks,all give award-worthy performances that
should elevate their careers to new heights.
With the realistic scenes,steller cast and Steven Spielberg at the helm,this
movie is the best movie you will see this year.Don't miss this movie.

******
15 October 1998
10

Amazing use of the camera during the 30 minutes on Omaha
Beach.
Sometimes underwater, sometimes onboard the vessel, scary
sounds from the bullets hitting metal, flesh, anywhere. I
felt
really sick during this massacre - as if I was hit by a glove in the belly.
And the story goes on: why saving one private Ryan
and risking the life of a handful of other soldiers during
this
mission? A moral dilemma - in the hands of a master director: Steven
Spielberg. My opinion is this, in short: the best anti-war movie I've ever
seen. Oscar Best Movie, Best Director
1998...


******
15 October 1998
9

hi there! i 've now seen it twice. and the only thing i can say about it is
that this is one of the best movies ever made!! although it is very graphic
spielberg doesn't celebrate the violence. he just shows how it must have
been. my favorite for the academy awards best movie, best director, best
camera and maybe best actor!
you have to see this one!have fun! christoph

******
14 October 1998
9

Over the last 20-odd years Speilberg has provided us with some of the most
memorable moments in the cinema. From Jaws through Close encounters, E.T.
Indiana Jones and most of all Schindlers List. Now he has added another
milestone, Saving Private Ryan.This film in the first half hour must come as close to showing the full
brutality of war as anything ever seen before. Despite an occasional soggy
middle section, in the opening sequences he fully makes up for any short
comings that the film may otherwise  have.With his track record now, I await the time when he makes his true
masterpiece and ditches his more saccharine elements. In the meantime there
is still plenty to appreciate.P.S. I liked Amistad as well!

******
14 October 1998
10

It is one of the best films I have ever watched. I was completely
speechless. I think every one of us should see it. Maybe we can avoid a new
war.

******
13 October 1998
10

This is the greatest war movie and one of my personal favourites and I don't
even like war movies that much.  This should easily be the best film of the
year.   

******
13 October 1998
9

It´s without a doubt the best war epic since All Quiet on the Western front
(1930). The opening with D-Day is perhaps the most skillfully made movie
sequence of all time. A terrific film.

******
13 October 1998
10

I've been recommending this film from the minute I left
the
movie theatre.  Only a true master can give the audience such a shocking
experience as does Spielberg with the first scene in Private Ryan.  This
film will become a classic on its own right.


******
13 October 1998
9

none better,
none equal.....

******
11 October 1998
10

This film is an attack on your senses. The first half hour should be shown
to all the world, that all wars may end.
This film has you glued to the seat and everyone in the movie theatre is
dead quiet. The sheer magnitude of the event(s) depicted in this film are
beyond all imagination and can only leave you feeling awed. Hanks is just
outstanding.Not since "Shindler´s List", I think has there been a war movie so powerful
and......ANTI-WAR!Don´t miss it  

******
11 October 1998
10

Know this was really good. The story, the effects, the directing, everything
was superb.It is a movie for those of you who have stomachs for blowed up people, heads
blowing, arms ripped apart.Everyone should see this film anyway, it's about war and what a war does to
people. It's very effectfull, but if you think for a minute you'll see that
war is probably even worse.it's an extremely good movie, it's a 10 on a scale of 0-10loved it.
Steven you've done it again. Gonna thank you for your academy award, before
you get it, but you will.

******
10 October 1998
10

I´ve seen dozens of war movies but never anything like this before. I´ve
read lots of comments before I actually saw the movie especially those of
veterans who said: "This is how it really was !". I couldn't quite imagine
what I was about to see.
Now I can ! I will never forget these unique pictures and the brilliant
acting of all these guys who gave me an idea of what those people went
through 54 years before.
To me it's another masterpiece of a man who jumps from genre to genre and
never ever disappoints.
Thank you Steven.


******
10 October 1998
10

I´ve seen a lot of war movies , but this one is the best
EVER...
I think that all of the involved had done a wonderful work ..especially Tom Hanks.. he is the best in the whole movie..

******
8 October 1998
10

If you are ex-military, this movie will make you wince, and you will find
tears in your eyes at several places in the movie, especially the ending.
You will curse the coward who causes the death of the Tom Hanks character
and others and be disappointed when he does not get killed. If you had
relatives in World War II you will gain a new respect for what those
relatives went through so that you could be there to see that movie.  This
is a Spielberg masterpiece and the only movie that I have ever given a 10
out of 10 rating. Don't take your sub-teen children to this movie.  It is
too intense and they won't understand it.  The plain fact is, the older you
are, the more you will appreciate it.  My grown children and the children of
my brothers and sister have seen it and were very much impressed.  One
nephew/niece are having their American flag signed by all their friends and
relatives who are military or ex-military.  Don't know if it happened
everywhere, but the people in the theater were very  quiet and subdued
before the movie and the same after the movie.  It was almost like any noise
would have been a sign of disrespect.  I was moved.

******
7 October 1998
10

I have been waiting for a movie like this to be made, and it's about
time.It is about time that the glory was removed  from the notion of war and the
abject horror be made clear.This is less of a movie and more of an experience.
When  I left the theatre I truly needed a week to recover form the images
and ideas.A must see at all recruiting stations.

******
6 October 1998
10

I've read some comments on the plot lacking believability, so I feel it's
imperative that I inform you plot junkies that the events depicted in Saving
Private Ryan are based on historical fact.  The US government did, in fact,
attempt to prevent the destruction of entire familial lines, and in many
cases, the only way to retrieve those personnel was to send out small units
to track them down.  The fact that some find the events depicted in Saving
Private Ryan incredulous merely reinforces the superb nature of the
structure and content in this film.This was hands-down the best war movie I've ever seen.  I wept buckets at
the end--afterwards finding myself walking around my beautiful city,
comparing it to the ravaged French landscapes presented in Spielberg's
masterpiece.  How fortunate my generation is to have been spared such a
calamitous sacrifice, and how trivial all of our concerns are, when
contrasted with the tribulations faced by all those who witnessed or served
in the wars of generations past.


******
5 October 1998
9

This is an amazingly good film.  The opening 20 minutes is wonderful in its
horror.  And the
"Liebestod" is almost erotic in a bizarre sort of way.


******
5 October 1998
7

In contradiction to what all the critics are saying SPR is NOT that best
'war' movie ever. Even though in the first half hour Spielberg gives a
superb and intense view of what the insanity of war should be like he fails
to really move you in the rest of the film.
Because, after that first episode the movie slowly degrades to a sort of
action movie in which way too many cliches have to be met. You instantly
feel what the outcome will be of ever dilemma that is faced during the
travel. The movie really does, therefore, NOT make a lasting impression as
did some other films in this genre, like Platoon. It is simply not
convincing enough nor creative in picturing all the horrible events of
war.

******
4 October 1998
10

This may be the best film I've ever seen, a film which gives me so much
thoughts and feelings. Although the film is a little bit too cruel and
fleshly, but it is a good media to let people think about the reality of a
war, a campaign that can ruin millions of lives and souls. The most horrible
thing to take part in a war is not being killed, but to watch the others
died one by one besides your feet. Think of it, they are flesh and blood,
not the characters in the TV games. Should they be killed just for one or
two people's foolish decision? They all have families, they are innocent. I
appreciate with the decision about that chief marshal, to save private Ryan
and send him home at any cost, he didn't mind to sacrifice 8 soldiers for
giving console to the old lady with 3 sons already died in the battle
fields.Steven Spielberg has produced a very great movie, different from the other
scientific films he had ever made, but it is a most touching film that give
a good lesson to most of the people. It makes me think about the song "Where
have all the flowers gone?" Yes, there are still battles even in this modern
world, still destroying millions of spirits and families, when will they
ever learn?


******
2 October 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is Steven Spielberg's finest work and can be compared to
nothing that Hollywood has ever produced.  It is raw, unforgiving, violent,
and saddening.  But, at the same time, it is triumphant, inspiring, and
hopeful.  The audience finally has the opportunity to see war as it
is...Hell.  Saving Private Ryan is (and forever shall be) a timeless war
movie to symolize ALL wars.  Nothing more can be said in words when the
movie so vividly speaks - even screams - in a film that challenges
Schindler's List as one of the greatest visual stories of all
time.

******
2 October 1998
7

After making such inexcusable trash as "The Lost World", Spielberg just can't
be taken seriously (neither can Tom Hanks, after "Forrest Gump"), no matter
how hard he tries. And in his most recent attempt at redemption, he doesn't
completely succeed: He simply cannot refrain from being the typical Spielberg
with his heavy-handed, lofty and ultimately sappy direction. The problem
here is not the film per-se, it's the fact that he tries to pass it to us as
REALITY :the supreme truth about WWII. In fact, not only there are many
visible historical and strategic inaccuracies, but most importantly, the
human interaction is injected with familiar Spilbergian fakeness I couldn't
help noticing. The dialogue, aside from a couple of obligatory f-words and a
few explicit sexual references, feels at least fifty years old, when the
Hollywood Character Actors went about delivering grand, all-important
speeches, and witty , crowd-pleasing lines. Sorry, Steven, but if you wanted
to "keep it real", you should've cut down on melodramatics or better yet,
hired a different screenwriter. The soldiers suffer from a lack of character
development, and remain nothing but polished stereotypes, their emotional
responses not always justified.
However, THE reason to view this film is the two Battle Scenes, enveloping
the story, (much like in the "Wild Bunch"). Only here, instead of using
Peckinpah's now-cliched slow motion violence, the scenes are shot in
real-time, or even speeded up slightly to an amazing effect.
John Williams, thank god, quiets down for the duration of both scenes and
lets us listen to the actual sounds of war without any musical
interference. The first scene, the Storming of Omaha Beach, is so
tension-packed, exciting and stimultaneously terrifying, that it could well
be the best of its kind. The last one,(a small group of men versus a
veritable army - hmmm,where have I seen THIS before?) is almost as good, if
not for the cheap Hollywood trick at the very end, which finds the movie
venturing into Indiana Jones territory. It almost seems that SPR was
directed by TWO different people: Spielberg and his WWII battle consultant.
On the very primal level, however, the film achieves at least one of its
makers' many aspirations: when I exited the theatre, I felt lucky to be
alive.


******
2 October 1998
8

It starts as a good Anti-War movie. Graphic depictions of what a bullet
really does,etc BUT at some points we are subjected to  'glory' scenes which
destroy the feeling of abhorrence gained in the first 30
minutes.
It is truly a great war movie?
It has a very basic story line, it is well filmed, the special effects are
fantastic, but if directors of war movies in the past had access to these
technological advances, perhaps their films would have been just as good, if
not better.
Are we judging this film on the thought behind it or on what we see in front
of us?


******
1 October 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is the most powerful movie of camaraderie, death, hope,
and strength of men in times of war I have ever seen.  Anyone who wonders
what it may be like for men who fight and die side by side should see this
film.

******
1 October 1998
10

The most intense prologue I've ever seen! Saving Private Ryan is one of my
favorites now - although I do believe the ending sequence should have been a
little bit more dramatic - however:
Others who want a nominee for the Oscars or the Academy Award itself are
adviced to postpone till next year. Hopefully... this movie should get them
all.

******
1 October 1998
10

Profoundly powerful. This film is just that. When you see this film you'll
realise that Schindler's List was just a warm up exercise for Spielberg.
Everything is just incredible. The acting is just one intense ensemble
effort (Tom Hanks and Tom Sizemore are assured of Oscar nominations), the
direction is stunning (the graining in the film, the lack of sickly
sentimentality, an unbiased view of the Germans, the handheld photography,
visceral but vital violence, the silent moments in which Tom Hanks blocks
out all noise in the heat of battle etc.etc.etc.) There are countless
reasons to see this film and they are all as important as each other. I saw
this movie last week and I'm still lying awake thinking about it and what
the real war heroes went through. True, I cried at Titanic but it pales into
insignificance when compared to the sheer brilliance of this film and the
emotional hell you experience whilst watching it. Guilt, horror, awe.
Private Ryan will almost certainly clean up at the Oscars but this won't be
enough. It should win every single award going and then some. Maybe then
people will stop wasting their money on Godzillas and Armageddons and begin
to make more movies like this.

******
29 September 1998
10

Oscar-winning director Steven Spielberg and two time Oscar-winning actor Tom
Hanks have collaborated on their first film and might well add to that
collection come Oscar night. Saving Private Ryan is a no holes barred epic
film about a group of Rangers who land on Omaha Beach on D-Day and then get
sent on a very personal mission, to find one man who has parachuted behind
enemy lines and is being sent home because his three older brothers have all
been casualties of war.The first 30 minutes of SPR is filled with seemingly never-ending images of
the savagery and brutality of war.  It is the landing at Omaha Beach on June
6 (aka D-Day). Hanks plays everyman Captain John Miller, who leads his men
into battle there. Some survive the carnage but many do not. The imagery is
fierce and honest from the opening of the first transport to the blood
washed beaches at the end.  In the middle of this film we have a
philosophical dilemma which Miller's men try to sort out - is one man worth
the lives of 9 men (Miller and his elite team)? And in the course of trying
to answer this question we get to know John Miller and his first sergeant
Horvath (well-played by Tom Sizemore), his sharp-shooter Private Jackson
(Barry Pepper), his translator Corporal Upham (superbly acted by Jeremy
Davies) and the other men in his unit - Edward Burns as Private Reiben - the
NY bred, cocky recruit, Private Mellish (Adam Goldberg) who is Jewish and
takes great satisfaction in killing Germans and who also plays a prominent
role in an unforgettable scene at the film's conclusion,  Medic Wade
(Giovanni Ribisi) who becomes frustrated over his inability to save
everyone, and Private Caparzo (Vin Diesel) who tries to save a young French
girl in the face of sniper fire. But it is Hanks who holds the film and the
unit together with his quiet determination.Also admirable in smaller roles are Ted Danson as another Captain who helps
Miller's unit track down Ryan and Dennis Farina as a Lieutenant, Harve
Presnell as General George Marshall, whose decision to extract Private Ryan
will change the lives of 10 men forever and Matt Damon as Private
Ryan.Not for the faint of heart, this movie pulls no punches and spares no one as
the human carnage continues throughout the film but particularly at the end
where the juxtapositioning of the troops listening to a German love song
while preparing to ambush some German tanks trying to traverse the bridge at
Ravell lends an eerie quality to the eventual fighting and emotionally
charged climax of the film.One thing is for sure - once you have seen this movies you will never look
upon World War II in quite the same way.Not to be missed, see this on the big screen and in a THX theatre and
prepare to be devastated


******
29 September 1998
8

When I went to this film I expected blood, guts, severed limbs, death and
destruction all round, and that is what I got. But when the first twenty
minutes are over and done with there is nothing there to see, the patheticly
boring insight into Tom Hanks' character is a mere side track to keep the
audience interested. The film is no doubt good, but only for the way in
which it portrays war, bloody. Even so Spielberg goes over the top in some
instances. When the German sniper is killed in the village church tower, you
didn't need to see his brains splattered all over the wall, unlike the D-Day
landings when it was important to get a feel for what it was like. In
general this film was over-hyped and Hanks in no way deserves an
Oscar.

******
29 September 1998
10

Spielburg's epic of the quest for one man is not so simple.
There is much more involved in the story.
The first twenty minutes show the horror and brutality of war.My jaw was wide open.  I could not believe it.  I had never seen this aspect
of war before.  I knew about it, but it didn't register.  It made me think
of all the other battles--Gettysburg--and movements not only in Europe but
also in the Pacific.  Men died for me, and I took this freedom for granted.
After the highly ironic ending I was glued to my seat.  I was so touched
that I could not move.  I could only sit and continue to realize that this
really happened.  Tom Hanks gives an excellent performance and is greatly
assisted by the supporting roles. The score that John Williams composed does
not steal the show, but it also adds to the overall impact of the film. The
story is only a script, but it is truer to life than ever before.  The
cinamatography adds to the effect.  By seeing war for what it is, (There are
no winners)I hope and pray we never go to war in haste
again.

******
28 September 1998
10

"Saving Private Ryan"  provides, in stark relief, a portrait of the American
infantryman in World War II. For those looking for a whiney anti-war film in
the Vietnam tradition, this isn't it. The men portrayed in "Saving Private
Ryan" are American soldiers of the 1940's who realize that, like it or not,
they stand between the dark night of Nazi tyranny and freedom for millions.
They have truly gone in harm's way. In case you are still unfamiliar with
the story, Private Ryan is the sole survivor of four brothers who are
serving in the military. Two are killed in the Normandy invasion, a third
has been killed a short time earlier at New Guinea in the Pacific Theater.
Army Chief of Staff George Marshall is so trouble by the prospect that
another family will lose all of its sons to the war, that he orders a small
unit of eight men to find the surviving Ryan. Marshall is haunted by the
deaths of the five Sullivan brothers who all perished when the ship on which
they served went down in the Pacific. Marshall is clearly not doing this as
an Army publicity stunt. A letter he posseses which was written by Abraham
Lincoln to a mother who made a similar sacrifice during the War Between the
States also spurs Marshall into action. Ryan parachuted into Normandy with
the 101st Airborne Division the night before the beach actions and, thus,
will be difficult to find. The men on the rescue mission are just guys.
Nothing special about them. The thing that makes them stand out is their
determination to just do their job. They're not sure why Ryan is so special,
but they intend to find out or die trying.This is Tom Hanks at his best. His portrayal of a World War II officer is
never better than when he gives his men their last minute instructions in
the landing craft. He ends by saying, "And I'll see you on the beach."  His
quiet confidence is remarkable and accurate.Barry Pepper is excellent as the unit's Tennessee born and bred sniper and
Giovanni Ribisi is outstanding as the medic.  If you're looking for an
anti-war "message" movie, this one isn't it.  It's about duty, honor and the
type of men who stood on the ramparts during one of the world's darkest
hours. After seeing this, go thank a World War II veteran. Plenty of them
traded their tomorrows so we could have today. 

******
27 September 1998
10

I saw the film last week. Well, it is simply spectacular. All of it. A master
piece!!

******
26 September 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan offers viewers a stunning companion piece to
Spielberg's previous WW2 classic Schildler's List, although exceptional in
its own right, Saving Private Ryan gives a completely different take on the
conflict.
Schindler's List examines the the evil of the war and what is was that
people were fighting for, Saving Private Ryan gives us, in no uncertain
terms a insight into the savagery of war and the senselessness of armed
conflict.
It reminds us that during conflict people die in the most horrible ways
immaginable and that good people sacrifice their lives for the 
cause.
If taken on its own Saving Private Ryan would seem to say that war is a
senseless waste of human life and that there is no justification for this
activity, but when added to the message in Schindlers's List, which showed
us the evil which the war strove to eliminate, one is left asking the
question.When is the cause worth the cost? 

******
26 September 1998
10

In one word it´s the best movie ever made.

******
25 September 1998
10

This is truly magnificent film-making, and probably the finest war movie ever
made, with terrific performances all around. I must say, however, that the
scene where the German soldier slowly lowers the blade into the American's
heart while whispering "shhh" was the most upsetting scene I've ever
encountered...so much so, in fact, that I will never watch the film again.
There's no denying, though, this is a great film.

******
25 September 1998
10

My father was in WWII in the Pacific, and at least two of my uncles were in
the European theatre (both were at the Battle of the Bulge, one was a
medic).  I saw this movie, not to see a war movie, but to be able to in some
way understand the experiences of those who went through the war.  I thought
this was an incredibly powerful and emotional movie which did help me
understand why my father NEVER spoke of the war, as I know many veterans do
not or cannot.  My wife and I remained in our seats several minutes after
the movie ended, we were both deeply affected.  I recommend that everyone
see this movie to get a realistic taste of the futility of
war.

******
22 September 1998
10

The most graphic and realistic war film of all time. A must see for all film
fans


******
21 September 1998
10

!!!---Not Native English, so forgive my mistakes.---!!!When the first 30 minutes started, i almost forgot to drink my soft
drink. Some guys left the movie with their girlfriends, i guess they
couldn't face the real like of WW2.Action films usually show that, "Face/Off", -which is a fairly good
movie, but in another category- the main characters aren't vulnerable to
bullets. They can dance in the line of fire, and they never get hit. That's
not possible.SPR showed me the real way, the opposite of what Face Off could come up
with. I realized that i want to hide, i don't want to move, because the
feeling being on the battlefield.
The surround was perfect, and the storyboard was ok too.My only question is that: Is the goverment really think like the guy in
the film? I mean i don't think that the Defense minister of the United
States can make decisions like "Save that Ryan guy because of his mother!".
I don't think so. But i'm not an American, so maybe i misunderstood
something.It was good not to see everyone surviving, and showing many kind of
soldiers.Not everyone can fight! That's okay!Thank you very much!

******
21 September 1998
10

In a summer full of movies based on special effects and not scripts, Saving
Private Ryan raises from the ashes to prove that great movies are still
being made.  Even if they are few are far between.  Spielberg shows us all
that he is still master of his craft.  In a post-Titanic wake, Hollywood was
in desperate need of such a film.  Saving Private Ryan is by far the best
movie you will see in 1998.

******
21 September 1998
10

There is nothing new in Saving Private Ryan but the standard war-is-hell
details are so well done they seem to have been re-invented for this movie.
In lesser hands: stereotypes, cliches and schmaltz. In Spielberg's:
well-rounded characters, genuine drama and real emotions. The only problem
is that the opening scene is so real and terrifying that it upstages the
rest of the story. (10/10 - easily).

******
20 September 1998
8

"Saving Private Ryan" was an excellent movie, but that's no surprise coming
from Steven Spielberg.  The one thing I would comment on is that there were
several sections of the movie that could have been left out, thus making it
a little shorter.  Several parts were slow and unnecessary, in my opinion.
But overall it was a very intense, emotional story that everyone will
respect. I recommend it to everyone.

******
19 September 1998
10

This movie had more of an impact on me than any movie I have ever seen.  I
was pretty apathetic about going to see it at first as I thought that it
would be just another war movie.  I was dead-wrong.  What this movie does is
bring to life the realities of war, at least as far as it can for someone
who never has and probably never will be there.To the people who would wish to go to war for any reason, watch this first.
To those who would dodge military service of this country, yet still call
themselves Americans and reap the rewards of those who did, watch this movie
and think about all of the kids who did your job for you.  To those who
would exercise their right to burn the American flag in protest, watch this
movie and consider the price at which that right was purchased.Although I realize that it isn't much, it is heartfelt when I say to all of
the people who have ever fought in or who have lost loved ones in a war,
"Thank you", from a grateful citizen.


******
18 September 1998
9

This is probably one of the best war films ever created.
The sound is incredible, the images are sensational, and
the acting is very good. It maintains a high level in
all its other aspects.
The first 5 minutes of battle are just what I expected.
There are many original points not present
in most war films, and there are even funny points in the
dialogue.
Ah, one more thing...
I also must say that perhaps I made a 'mistake' before
going to the theatre: I read the user comments at the
IMDb...
In them, people say things like 'it's the best war
film in history',
or 'I'm not the same after watching this movie'.
Well, I must admit it's a
great war movie, but nothing else, at least for me.
Of course, it's not the best film ever created.
Anyway, you shouldn't miss it.
My rating is 8 out of 10.

******
18 September 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is the most hauntingly realistic movie of all time. 
While sitting in the theater witnessing this extraordinary piece of cinema
history, I couldn't help but think about what it must have been like that
day, in Normandy.  Although I felt like I was right there on the beach with
the brave soldiers who risked, and gave their lives for us.  This is a movie
that makes you think.  Oscar caliber performances delivered by every member
of the cast, especially Tom Hanks.  The story involves Private Ryan, who's
brothers died in the d-day invasion, and the eight men sent to return him
home.  Eight men sent to save one may be unfair, but their soldiers and will
follow orders, no matter what the cost.  This movie has many very gory
moments, but what else do you expect from the man who brought you
Schindler's List and Amistad, Steven Spielberg.  This is my favorite movie
of all time, and I recommend it to anyone who can handle it.  It's been said
that war is hell.  But I can't imagine a hell being any
worse.

******
17 September 1998
10

Just saw it, hard to say anything...
Spielberg at his best, brilliant direction, the cinematography is also
wonderful, all the actors are great, there is no need to single out the
best...
I'm awed...
Filmmaking as it should be.  A pure, crystallized masterpiece.

******
17 September 1998
10

Over the many years of films being released many have been named outstanding
and have been given 4 stars.  The Godfather, Star Wars, The Usual Suspects,
Pulp Fiction, and The Godfather Part II all stand a big place in film
history.  However I was never expecting a film to be as important as
Schindler's List until now and by the same director.  Steven Spielberg has
once again made easily one of the best and most important films of all time.
Many past war films have tried to be important but nothing has came as
close to reality as Saving Private Ryan.  From the scenes of graphically
violent war where gun shots are the only noise you can hear to the different
aspects each character has it is definitely the most realistic war film ever
made.  After seeing this film you will be reminded of the many people who
have died for our freedom today and what it is really like to be on a
battlefield.  Some people may find it to graphic to watch but must know that
this is a true story and this is how graphic a war is.  Definitely one of the
best films I have ever seen and if there are movies in the future that are
even better than this one, not many will forget this film and many of the
scenes you see in it will be kept in your head for many years to
come.

******
17 September 1998
8

Even with all the hype I had absorbed, I was not prepared for the brutality
depicted in this film.  Perhaps it is not possible to be prepared.  Perhaps
that is good.  As I squirmed and cowered in my chair during the initial
battle sequence, I was asking what now, where now before any of the
characters did.  I had become involved in the story emotionally without
wanting or choosing to.  I cared about these people and therefore when the
plot threatened them, I felt threatened.  When they relaxed. I relaxed.  In
that way, this film brought to me an understanding of war from the soldiers
point of view that is otherwise impossible to get without being there.  To
me that is the measure of the film's merit.  This is a great film, with
subtlety and understatement sometimes lacking in Spielberg earlier films.  I
am heartened that a talent as technically adept as Spielberg is maturing
into a true master of the art of film.  Everyone who can stand it must see
this movie.

******
16 September 1998
10

This movie is no doubt a must-see for everyone who still has the opinion,
that war is a necessary thing. Never have I seen such dramatical and yet
realistic scenes of war. There's one big message: War is the last thing you
ever want to get stuck in!
In my opinion, this movie exceeds even Schindler's list, which was excellent
as well.

******
16 September 1998
10

I did not expect to like this movie as much as I did.  I figured the
fictional plot would be silly since there was so much that really occurred
that could/should be told. But the plot allowed Spielberg to show first
person not just the most realistic landing scenes ever made, but allowed
him to continue into the confusion of the airborne assault the night before
in a way that has never been shown before.The haunting scene that will always remain with me is the view from the
German defensive positions, showing them waiting for the ramp of the
landing craft to open so they could fire their machine gun into the densely
packed men on the craft.I believe this movie should be shown in every school in the United States,
every year, so our children can know what sacrifices their parents and
grandparents made in the past. No movie I've seen shows this better.


******
16 September 1998
10

The harrowing torment of combat has never been so accurately portrayed. 
This is a study of loyalty, courage, leadership and sacrifice, and it is a
tour de force for Tom Hanks, who has filled the shoes of Jimmie Stewart. 
His quiet portrait of leadership is a cure for the swaggering macho of
Stallone and Segal, who lied to a generation of Americans about what
soldiering is all about.You must see it, you must take your parents and your children, and you must
tell your congressman to see it.  Don't be put off by the violence, it is
not just part of the story, it is the story.  I saw enough combat in
Vietnam to really understand, and yet I cried for my father and his friends
when I saw this film.

******
15 September 1998
10

When I went to see this film I thought I knew what to expect--a gory,
 realistic war drama about a group of men whom we come to have emotions for,
 not unlike the characters in "Platoon" or "Full Metal Jacket," but I was
 sorely mistaken.This film was not only realistic, it was heart-wrenching and thrilling, and
 never before has a film had such an emotional impact on me.  Never before
 have I pitied and felt so strongly for characters in a movie because I
 always found most movies to merely be entertainment, with the exception of
 a few other films dealing with equally significant issues, but something
 was different about "Saving Private Ryan".  It made me reflect on my own
 life and I actually found myself thanking God that I have never experienced
 something as horrifying and gruesome as the experience of the soldiers as
 portrayed in the opening and closing scenes.  A month after seeing it, I still find myself contemplating the horror
 experienced by so many men, and I can't fathom the misery, anguish, and
 suffering encountered by those soldiers.
The character Private Ryan was superfluous to the story, a mere gimmick in my
 mind for Spielberg to portray the Hell that must be combat.


******
15 September 1998
8

The landing scenes are excellent and seem to make everyone think about the
suffering that must have taken place. The rest of the the story is ok but not
great, there's nothing there that hasn't been filmed a hundred times already. Definitely worth watching on a big screen with big sound.Having said that, I couldn't help thinking that it had many similarities with
Starship Troopers. Lots of blood, guts, gore, big guns, evil faceless enemies,
team bonding, battlefield documentary photography, landing craft invasions,
"tank" busting, and more. 

******
15 September 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is Speilberg's attempt to help the viewer now what war
is truly like. To put it simply, he didn't pull any punches. This movie was
an experience that no one should ever forget. This truly should make you
appreciate what the veterans of this horrible war had to go through.


******
14 September 1998
9

Not your typical WWII film where heroes go charging down the beach engaging
 the enemy without fear. This film shows what war is about, mainly death in
 extremely violent ways. A very historically accurate and moving film of men
 in battle. If you're interesting in the history, read Stephen Ambrose's
 novel D-Day. Ambrose consulted for the movie. 

******
14 September 1998
10

There's only one word for this movie:  awesome.  Steven Speilberg, probably
 the most prolific film maker of the Twentieth-Century, has done it again. 
 He magnificently combines all of the elements of war to create a
 masterpiece. 

******
14 September 1998
10

Yes it`s that good. Never before have I sat a full 72 hours later and still
 have a movie indelibly imprinted on my mind. Thanks to wonderful
 cinematography and the modern digital sound the feeling of being there was
 inescapable. I doubt that the same atmosphere could have been created 20 or
 even 10 years ago. The previous EPICS of WWII A bridge too far and The
 longest day, although classics of their time pale against the new found
 master of the genre. A must see!!!

******
13 September 1998
10

Saving private Ryan is one of the best movies ever made,It had a great cast
and the best director in the world working on it.The first 25 minutes of
the film were filmed in chlorecho beach in Co.Wexford, Ireland, I am from
New Ross, Co.Wexford Ireland.

******
13 September 1998
8

One of the most powerful war films of all time.  The most intense, graphic
direction to come from Steven Spielberg, with superbly innovative
cinematography, editing and sound.  Performances were all around excellent.
Supporting characters are surprisingly as strong as Tom Hanks in the lead. 
Modern day bookend is the only thing that detracts from the rest of the
movie.

******
13 September 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is without a doubt the best war movie that I
ever seen. Before seeing it I had heard that it was amazingly realistic and
that some war veterans had to abandon it after 30 minutes because of
horrific memories flooding back. And I have to agree with this. The opening
25 minutes or so in particular are like nothing I have ever witnessed. Some
of the scenes of the dead and wounded are really gruesome but this only
adds to the overwhelming effect this film has on all who see it.It is quite a long film but it doesn't feel it. I was disappointed
when it ended because I was enjoying it so much. Spielberg really captures
the essence of war in this film and hopefully would make all who see it
realize the grim reality of war and turn them against violence for
life.
All I have left to say is that if you haven't gone out to see Saving
Private Ryan yet, do so now, it really is as good as everyone says it is.


******
12 September 1998
9

I'd read plenty of reviews both here and in magazines before I saw this film
- most described was the first twenty minutes of the movie concerning the
Omaha beach landings in France. The horrors written in those text prepared
me for what I knew were going to be gruesome scenes - or so I thought.
Wrong WRONG WRONG. The first twenty minutes will be stuck etched on my
brain until I die - if nothing else they serve as the best reason I've ever
seen for pacifism. When the first boat lands and the bullets rip the
occupants to shreds you feel you are right there with them - then you know
that no film review will do justice to the visuals in this film. To say it
's the best war movie ever made is a kind of injustice - I didn't feel I was
watching a war film more a documentary. You've seen people shot before a
million times on film and tv right? Wrong again - you feel every bullet
thats fired in this film and beleive me every one feels and sounds like a
hot piece of metal that kills. When the first twenty minutes are over you
feel numb and you stay like that until the last image of the film has left
the screen. To complain about the plot is essentially pointless - sure its
straight forward and sure its one sided (the germans all being depicted as
pretty much emotionless skinheads - the only one in the film for any length
of time being a nasty piece of work who you want to die anyway) but I dont
think this is meant as a film in that way. To me it's a document of the
horrors of war and of the futility of it - If I were a young man thinking
of joining the forces before seeing this I'd rip the application form up
after, any romantic ideals of that lifestyle get ripped up with it in this
film.See this movie, be hurt and haunted by it's images but most of all remember
it as a document of why we are free today.Sometimes I wonder why they bothered.     


******
12 September 1998
8

Yet another movie that is considered great simply because the name Spielberg
is attached. If not for the hyper-realistic combat scenes, this film would
simply be average.On the plus side, the movie takes full advantage of today's audiovisual
technology to provide the most immersive film experience dealing with war -
- any war. The violence is so realistic and plentiful it's at times
desensitizing, a common feeling among soldiers in World War II.On the negative side, the movie revolves around the gore and the combat, and
as a result fails to resolve many of the questions the movie raises --
namely whether risking an entire group is worth saving one man.There are many other movies that more strongly illustrate the wide range of
attitudes, emotions, and pure brutality of war; among those, All Quiet On
The Western Front (the original), The Big Red One, and Platoon involve the
viewer on a much deeper emotional and intellectual level than this film.


******
9 September 1998
10

By the time you read this, you'll probably know what Saving Private Ryan is
all about without even seeing the film. Sure the fighting scenes were
realistic and etc... but this is not what drew me to this film. Now, I'm no
expert in movies and I haven't seen a lot of old war movies, (The only one
I've seen is The Longest Day), but I think this movie stands out among the
others because it is real. The characters are real. They don't have
incredible luck, beating odds every time. You see grown men crying out for
their mothers, screaming out in pain when they're hit... The movie focuses
on the characters, the people. It shows the human side of this war. It
shows how men devolve into savage creatures who are just trying to survive.
It shows that every life taken, is another bit of humanity that is lost. 
(eg. shooting surrendering prisoners. beating up a POW). The mission they're
assigned is probably one of the only good deeds they will accomplish in the
war. The little bit of humanity that is left in them compels them
accomplish their objective, and helps them redeem their soul. The team
dispatched to save Private Ryan, evolves from a group of savages trying to
survive to a higher moral level. A level in which they are willing to
sacrifice their lives to do something good, something they rarely
do.Now you may disagree with my point of view, I don't really care but whether
you agree or not, you have to see Saving Private Ryan. You a least owe it
to the veterans to see what they faced when they fought for our freedom. 


******
7 September 1998
5

The battle scenes rang true but there was too much Hollywood schmaltz in the
script, not to mention the overdone music track. Full Metal Jacket was a
more honest film, with a more unflinching look at the horrors of war and
free of any little circular plot devices to tie it neatly together.
The greatest anti-war film IMHO was "Prisoner of the Mountain", a film that
came out of Russia a couple of years ago.

******
7 September 1998
6

Yes, I am a veteran also, of a less glorifies war. I also found Saving
Private Ryan not very interesting.  The movie moved at Wagnerian pace. Many
times I thought of walking out, mostly out of sheer boredom. I kept
dreaming of scissors! Oh! how I wished they cut the balcony scene between
the French parents-girl-and soldiers; it wasn't even in good taste. ("Let's
walk out now!" I told my family---"but wait you'll be dragging a loss of
nearly $20.00, let's stay, we'll cut it to pieces during supper!")  And the
dialogue: how many war movies did they cut-and-paste to come up with such
witticisms as "I don;t give a blankety blank about this blankety war...I
want to go . home..."And my  most favorite quotation: " all these men dead
for one man!"  In summary I've seen dozens of more interesting and truly
more representative war movies.My summary of the movie, is "what else is new.!" You don't have to go
digging into the annals of history for carnage. Reserve your seat at your
local hospital emergency room on any Saturday night!I didn't learn much from this movie, perhaps nothing at all. And goodness,
how long it was!

******
4 September 1998
10

This movie's violence in this had a much more serious approach than in any
other movie that I've seen.  I am a huge fan of action movies (Face/Off,
The Rock, and those types), and the violence in those is so overblown and
off the wall that its fun. The war scenes in Saving Private Ryan are far
from fun.  They are graphic and brutal.  That's what makes the movie
powerful.  While reading another person's comment, they said "this is
nothing like real combat."  I can't disagree with them, because I have
never seen real combat.  I can, however, say that it shows that war is not
something that should be glorified, it is a brutal and painful experience,
and besides that, it is a story very well told.

******
30 August 1998
10

Never before have I seen a movie with the same emotional impact as Saving
Private Ryan.  Steven Spielberg, as usual, has put together an incredible
movie.  The cinematography, especially in the opening sequence where he
puts you in the middle of the action as though you were there, is stunning.
The acting is superb, as you'd expect from Tom Hanks, and the rest of the
cast is stellar as well.If it has any flaw, the movie asks you to suspend disbelief, for why would
the army risk the lives of eight men just to save one?  Needless to say, I
couldn't question that while watching the movie because of how good it was.
It was long, but I thought it was worth every minute of it.I don't cry in movies.  It just isn't my thing.  But the end of this film
was so moving I couldn't help myself.  If you don't like realistic violence
, don't see this movie.  If you don't like to be moved, don't see this
movie.  But if you want to see a gripping, realistic look at war and
possibly the greatest movie ever made, see Saving Private Ryan.  It's an A+
in my book.

******
22 August 1998
10

I hated and loved this film and believe everyone should see it.  Maybe then
we wouldn't glamorize war.

******
21 August 1998
10

At the end of saving private ryan you feel as if you`ve been punched in the
stomach.Never before have i seen war portrayed so graphically,and for people
like me,who had family in world war 2, it was especailly moving.


******
20 August 1998
6

The technical effects of the Normandy Landing, as well as other battle
scenes, overshadowed the dialog.  Maybe my hearing is not as acute as it
could be, but I could not hear
much of the spoken dialog amid the shelling, explosions and 
other noise.  If the movie was a display of special effects, it succeeded.
If it was to tell a story, it was marginal, in my opinion

******
19 August 1998
9

Saving Private Ryan is the greatest portrayal of war on film that I have
ever seen, mainly because it works like a documentary during the battle
scenes.  It was as close to the action as possible for the viewer, and for
that, it is great.  Everyone should see it just to experience it.However, I do have some complaints.  There are several instances that were
far too manipulative on Spielberg's part.  The little girl and her family? 
The German soldier/prisoner incident?  The aging veteran?  All very
questionable and probably not necessary.  The sheer content of the picture
was moving enough, why elaborate on other things of much lighter substance
?This deserves a nomination for best picture, but if The Thin Red Line lives
up to expectations, I'd hesitate to give it a win.  Unforgettable all the
same though.

******
18 August 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan was the best war epic ever created.  When I say "best",
I mean that it was the most powerful recreation of war ever seen by those
who have not partaken in it.  But most of all, I mean that it was the most
truthful.  Veterans from all over the world can now finally share the pain
and suffering which has tormented them for so long.
If my country asks me to fight, I will not cower.  But I do hope sir, that
my leaders will have seen this film, will have seen the horrors, the
anguish, the death, and that ultimately they will see the alternatives.


******
18 August 1998
10

I'm only 16 years old.  I've never been even remotely connected to a war.  I
hope I never am either.  After seeing this movie, I am horrified at the
thought of people fighting, people who are just like eachother, except they
live in different places and follow different ideas.  This movie makes all
the emotion and passion of war real.  The camera movements and close ups of
the death gives you a feeling of sorrow for every soldier who has ever died
and ever will die.  I hope people of my generation will see it and realize
how horrible war really is.

******
17 August 1998
10

My first suggestion to anyone who has not yet seen this movie is GO.  Don't
wait for video; don't think it can't be half as good as they say; don't use
the 1,000 different procrastinator's excuses.  Just GO.  Saving Private
Ryan is every bit as moving, amazing and harrowing as you've heard...and
then some.  More importantly, Saving Private Ryan gives the audience just a
taste of what it must have been like to be a soldier in what is called the
Last Great War, and in the process shows you, in no uncertain terms, that 
*no* war is great.  Saving Private Ryan also made me realize just what a
sacrifice the men who fought World War II made to ensure that you and I and
everyone that came after lived in a safer, freer world.Yes, the 25-minute Omaha Beach scene is terrifying, intense and graphic, but
stick it out.  You'll see some incredible feats, made more so by the
realization that real men actually *did* these things.  A small, non
-spoiler example:  one of the medics, with his corpsman, going down a line
of wounded soldiers; bullets are flying all around, men are still being
killed and maimed in horrific ways, yet here is this medic, performing
triage, knowing at any second one of those bullets might find him.Spielberg, and especially Tom Hanks, bring you *into* the war; you truly see
that, to the soldier, war isn't about opposing ideologies, but about
accomplishing your mission, and getting your guys, and hopefully yourself,
home in one piece.  That's it.  Not patriotism, at least not on the front
lines; not idealism; just survival and duty, and loyalty to your guys.  And
Hanks shows you how, in the midst of loss and destruction and almost
intolerable inhumanity, a man can still do his duty; more than any other
actor in the film, Hanks shows you how a man, normal and mild-mannered back
home, finds the strength to do what is asked, and continue doing it, until
the task is complete.For me, Tom Hanks makes this movie.  Many reviews have pointed out that Tom
Hanks delivers another of the brilliant, emotionally three-dimensional
performances we, as one critic put it, have come to expect of him.  Tom
Hanks' work in Private Ryan is so subtle, so real, yet so breathtakingly
beautiful that the Academy will have taken leave of its collective senses
if they *don't* give him a third Oscar.  In my humble opinion, Tom Hanks is
one of the greatest actors of this generation.  You can keep your DeNiros,
your Hoffmans, your Pacinos; give me Tom Hanks any day.It's a powerful movie; not perfect, but very nearly so.  Don't deny yourself
the experience of seeing Saving Private Ryan on the big screen.  It's a
trip worth making.

******
16 August 1998
10

While watching the first twenty-five minutes of Saving Private Ryan all that
 I could think of was "Oh, Jesus, Oh, Jesus" Which is what I'm sure the men
 were thinking when they landed on Omaha Beach that day. Bullets were flying
 through men like they were tin foil. This movie IS the most realistic war
 movie ever made.  When thinking of D-Day, most people think of a glorious
 battle that helped turn the tide of war. In reality it was a large group of
 men trying to stay alive in whatever way they could.  This movie is not an
 anti-war film, whoever says it is is wrong. This movie depicts war the way
 it is. Those men gave their lives for their country and saved many others. 
 However, all the people who see Army advertisements and are thinking of
 joining need to see this film first.

******
16 August 1998
8

Say what you will about the movie.  You may have loved it, hated it, thought
it was the best or worst film ever.  You may have thought the battles were
amazing, disturbing or both.  Maybe the story wasn't enough for you, maybe
it was too much.  I won't bore you with my accounts of the film...you need
to judge that for yourself.  What I WILL say is this: the most touching
part of the film for me, was looking to my right and seeing and elderly man
in his dress uniform watching the movie..proudly at times, sobbing at
others while his wife held his hand tightly.  The movie touched HIM.  He,
other vets like him and those that died, have gone unappreciated for far too
long.  It's about time someone did something that touched them.


******
16 August 1998
10

War as true to life in its blood and death as well as its human drama and
spiritual element as could be short of being there.
This will go down as one of the most powerful movies ever made. I do not
lightly call it a masterpiece. Our country needed this.God bless Stephen
Spielberg.


******
14 August 1998
10

The movie starts and ends with a sun-bleached American flag whipping in the
 wind. Between these images we see several intense and very believable
 battle sequences. We get a good glimpse into the nightmares of every modern
 war veteran. But this movie isn't all just battle scenes, gore, and death.
 It has characters we can associate with. The normal guys who find
 themselves in extraordinary situations -- not action heroes or superstars
 who fit right in to battle scenes. Their fear expressed in high-speed
 stuttered camera techniques (everything comes into sharp focus.) We watch
 one man's, Cap'n Miller, descent into insanity. We watch eight men fight
 for a simple idea of military etiquette. We watch hate grow in both our
 heroes and the Germans'. We watch poetic injustice. This movie questions
 the cost of war. The cost of human lives and ideas, and it recalls a memory
 that in a couple of decades will be lost forever in the graves of ancient
 men. This is not just another war flick.  It's deep, meaningful,
 intellectual, and real. And as a film student, I'd be ashamed should this
 impressive and powerful film not receive both popular and awards
 recognition.

******
14 August 1998
10

Some classic movies are very entertaining and pure fun like Star Wars, and
 Raiders of the Lost Ark.  Other are powerful and moving like Schindler's
 List.  Saving Private Ryan is at the top of the later category.  It maybe
 the best movie ever and it is without a doubt the best in its genre.  It is
 truly a movie that one shouldn't miss.  Go see now.

******
14 August 1998
9

Had anybody else made this movie, I would call it a flawless
achievement.  But Spielberg is capable of better.  It's a great
movie, but he could have made it even greater if he had just
pushed himself a little harder.


******
13 August 1998
10

The movie, "Saving Private Ryan", deeply touched me.  I have seen it three
 times and each time powerful feelings were evoked. I encourage everyone to
 see the movie, not for entertainment purposes, but out of respect for the
 servicemen who gave their lives.
At only 23 years old, I have found a new appreciation for what those
 sevicemen did and what they stood for.  
I have visited the D-Day Museum in Normandy and the American Cemetary. 
 Ironically, I have never been to a more peaceful place than Omaha Beach,
 walking through the bombed out bunkers. I felt a presence of what it was
 like to be there on that day in June.
I hope that others, especially people not old enough to have lived through a
 war, can begin to appreciate what the American military stands for and what
 they protect.
The freedom that they continue to defend is something that should never be
 taken for granted.
I would like to thank Mr. Speilberg for "Saving Private Ryan" and for 
"Schindler's List", another emotionally touching film about the 1940's
 massacre.


******
13 August 1998
10

The realism of this film grabs you from the beginning and holds you
 throughout.  This is a film that everyone should see at least once.


******
12 August 1998
10

 An absolutely wonderful film.  Tough to watch, yet hard not to stare at the
 screen like a rubbernecker at the scene of an accident on the freeway. 
 Spielberg once again shows us how important of a film maker he is.
 I highly recommend Saving Private Ryan.  It is sure to be in the front of
 the pack come oscar night.  

******
11 August 1998
10

   This movie can't even be considered a movie.  It's too real for that. 
 This movie puts you right in the middle of the most horrifying war of our
 time.  Every emotion a man can express, from fear to grief to grittiness to
 whatever is shown in this movie.  One guideline everyone should follow
 before seeing this movie = If you can't handle gore show up a 1/2 hour late
 to the movie.  It opens up on D - Day.   WWII wasn't all happiness and
 brotherhood among men.  There was a war going on as well.  Tom Hanks easily
 earned his third oscar with his role as the captain of a unit on a mission
 to find Priv. James Ryan.  Speilberg easily gets an Oscar as well.


******
11 August 1998
10

portrays brutality of war more accurately than any other movie

******
11 August 1998
10

I'm a great War movie & war game enthusiast and this movie made me remember
 the fact that war is truly horrible and is not something to glamorize and
 take lightly.  The realisim of the Normandy landing was incredible.  I felt
 as if I were on the beach with those men.

******
11 August 1998
10

I've always been fascinated about the subject of WWII, having read many
 books on the subject. Until now, however, it was always somewhat distant
 and surreal. I looked at photographs of the war and thought how amazing
 that such an event could have ever taken place, and how I admire and
 respect the men who gave their lives in defense of freedom. A man I know
 was recently decorated by the President for his part in D-Day and I asked
 him if he had been scared at the time. He told me that the truth of the
 matter was that all of the kids in the boats were really unaware of the
 enormity of the whole situation and that it was just something that had to
 be done. After having seen SPR, I understand what he meant and why it is
 that when I ask other WWII survivors about their experiences, they mostly
 generalize, not really wanting to talk about it. The things they must have
 seen cannot be conveyed in mere words. Steven Spielberg has done a
 tremendous job in helping me to see the truth about WWII. The next Oscars
 will be a titanic night for Saving Private Ryan.

******
10 August 1998
10

This movie was riveting! It's gotta be oscar-bound! I want to see it again.
 I can't begin to describe what you feel when you are in that theater,..when
 the movie is over and you are just kind of sitting there,...it's like you
 are in awe,...you know that stuff like this actually happened,..that this
 is the most true to life image of this war to date and you can't believe
 that it actually happened this way in such graphic detail. Throughout the
 movie you sit there and you watch the soldiers get killed one after another
 in many different ways and you want to look away,..but you don't,.. because
 you know that this is a part of your history,...you have to watch because
 if you don't it's like hiding from the truth. this movie really shows us
 that war is hell. the intricate camera angles and Speilberg's genius in this
 film make you feel like you are in the crossfire. And in the 28 or so
 minutes that you sit through the Omaha beach invasion all you want is for
 it to be over already. I felt like running out of the theater just to
 escape it's brutality,.. but i couldn't tear myself away. You begin to get
 to know the soldiers and you feel their bond as they set out to find the
 only remaining Ryan brother out of four. You accompany them on this journey
 into the depths of the war and at some points all you want to do is cry. If
 you haven't seen it i've done my best here to not ruin it for you so you
 can go see it yourself. It's well worth it and more. 


******
10 August 1998
10

One person said characters were static. I thought, given the scope of
 
the film, that the characters were developed very subtly - for example,
 
the scene in which the medic was rewriting the bloody letter home
 
written by the first man killed while confessing a wish that he had not
 
pretended to be sleeping so his Mom wouldn't chat it up with him. Very
 
real. The camera work was intended to make you feel "first person" intensity,
 
which it did. Try running with 40+ pounds strapped to your back, with a
 
helmet bobbing around on your head, while trying to find some cover. The
 
camera caught exactly what you would "see". It took some visual adjustment , but was part and parcel to what made this movie effective.
 
I'm not trying to find flaws. I agree that we should - SHOULD - not needa reminder that war is hell, or that, if we
 
do need it there is something wrong with us. I think that we DO need it.
 
We do seem to forget what it meant that these soldiers took a bullet to
 
gain a beach. There isn't anything "wrong" with us. We just get complacent. We should remind ourselves any time we are about to
 
romanticize war. We need to do it. Memorial Day and Veterans Day do not
 
just mean long weekends. They stand for something. And we need to say, "Thank you," not only to the people who sacrificed
 
their lives, but to those who survived as well, and helped to do some
 
part to put an end to it. We should do that by taking up the most
 
difficult burden ever laid on a human being - the one put 
 
in the end: "Make it all count for something". How could anyone live up
 
to that? The message of this movie? Do your best to do exactly THAT with
 
your own life. Make it count.

******
10 August 1998
10

When I think of D-Day, a picture comes to mind. In Life magazine, Robert
 Capa the famous war photographer, had a picture he took at D-Day. He landed
 with the men at Normandy on June 6, 1944 and was nearly killed. "The water
 was very cold, and the beach still more than 100 yards away. The bullets
 tore holes in the water around me, and I made for the nearest steal
 obstacle...it was still very early and very gray for good pictures, but the
 gray water and gray sky made the little men, dodging under the surrealistic
 designs of Hitler's anti-invasion braintrust, very effective.", he said
 later of the day. The photograph is very grainy. You can see the steal
 barricades and a soldier, blurry in the foreground gritting his teeth,
 swimming towards his destiny. Clearly Capa was afraid while taking the
 picture. Speilberg has filled in Capa's grainy, blurry photo for me. I can
 see Speilberg's  Capt. Miller scared, crawling towards his destiny; the
 destiny of many. I always thought that these men were brave, but it seems
 more real knowing the specific horrors the endured. It is no longer a
 blurred and grainy Life Magazine photo.

******
10 August 1998
10

Before I saw this movie someone asked me what my favorite movie was and I
 didn't know.  Now I have an answer.  I--and no one else who wasn't there-
-can never really understand what the men who fought World War II
 experienced and what the sacrifices they made for us were, but this movie
 does as well as any can to tell a bit of their story.  Normally when a
 movie is over people walk out chatting and laughing but there was nothing
 to say.  

******
10 August 1998
10

Walking into the theater to see this film, I knew it would be a great film.
 If you haven't seen this film yet, you already know it's a great movie, by
 going on what you have heard. Watching the movie, and afterward, I realized
 that "Saving Private Ryan" is much more than a good movie; It was like I
 was sent back to Normandy in a time machine to witness the actual event. My
 stomach was churning, and I experienced for the first time ever in a movie,
 feelings of fear and pride. I actually had a felling in my stomach like I
 was getting ready to fight in a battle. When you hear the Nazi tanks coming
 closer to you, it makes you feel the same way. I felt proud to be an
 American watching this movie, and every moment since. "Private Ryan" is an
 absolute must for everyone, but bring some kleenex and a solid stomach for
 the experience.

******
9 August 1998
10

First, I want to say that I was thoroughly shocked and impressed by this
 film. I can't say I enjoyed it, because, as you know, this wasn't the type
 of film to be enjoyed. This was the type of film to be remembered and
 hallowed, which I will for the rest of my life. As a member of generation X,
 I have to agree with all those who have said that younger people need to
 see this. Before I saw this movie, I have to admit, war was merely a
 concept I learned in history, and the realism of SPR opened my eyes wide 
(not to mention my mouth in that first half hour or so). And I also agree
 the message was to us. I have yet to experience a loss
 or a sacrifice that even comes close to what those families went through,
 and of course I hope I never have to experience anything remotely
 resembling it, especially after seeing this movie. Before I end this
 message, I would just like to clear something up. The meaning of sending
 eight guys after one guy, besides the figurative meaning,
 the reason given in the movie, is addressed in the first half of the movie.
 General Marshall read a very poignant letter that had been written by
 Abraham Lincoln to a woman who had lost all of her children in the Civil
 War. The brothers had been put in the army together so they would be with
 people they knew. Putting family members together in the armed services was
 a common practice up to and including WWII. The reason General Marshall
 sent those eight men after Private Ryan was so that he could send Ryan home,
 instead of his body in a box, like he would have to do for so many men
 from so many families. This movie is not entirely fiction based. There were
 many incidents during WWI and II in which whole families were killed all at
 once. After WWII, it was declared that members of the same family had to be
 split up, so that the chances of that family having sons left after the war
 were greater than before. Besides all that, if more families lost more sons,
 they'd have more contempt for the government for sending their men into a
 no-win situation, which makes it a good thing we won! But all of that
 speculation aside, I choose to ignore all those who complain about the 
*shaking camera*! What's that about? Take some Dramamine for pete's sake! I
 also choose to ignore those who said the movie lacked character development
 and emotion. Look a little deeper, that was the whole movie! In closing, I'd
 like to say that all is not lost in trying to reach the heart of human
 compassion. If Steven can do it, so can we!

******
9 August 1998
10

I believe that every American man, woman, and child over 10 should be
 required to see this movie.  It will give you a new outlook on life, and a
 new appreciation for freedom.  It depicts the realness and the sacrifices
 of war perfectly.  I felt I was on the mission with CAPT Miller.  Perfect
 acting by all, perfect directing, perfect photography - this will win the
 movie, director, and actor Oscars, and certainly many more.  Move over
 Citizen Kain, Godfather, Schindler's List, et al - this is THE best movie
 ever made.

******
9 August 1998
10

After reading other peoples comments I decided to change mine. I think this
 movie represents (symbolically) the sacrifices that the veterans and those
 who died fighting for our country. I am going to see this movie again. I
 cannot explain how this movie made me feel. When Tom Hank's character says
 "Earn it" he was not talking to Ryan he was talking to us. Private Ryan
 represents everyone; you and me; everyone. Those eight men represent the
 people that sacrificed their lives to save ours from perhaps closest to
 pure evil this world has ever seen. My only hope is that all of us live our
 lives to the fullest so we can earn their sacrifice.
***** of *****

******
9 August 1998
10

The film starts with the most horrific scenes of war I have ever seen in a
 movie. The way Spielberg films the landing at Normandy just enhances the
 confusion and puts you there. He uses handhelds, skips frames and speeds up
 frames. Definately one of the most important films of the last 20
 years.
See it in the Theater just for the experience. The only part that is lacking
 is the story... but that is just means to the end for Spielberg to show us
 his thoughts on the horrors of war.


******
9 August 1998
10

I have never seen a movie so moving and so intensely emotional as Saving
 Private Ryan.  The movie actually showed a person the horrific circumstances
 surrounding every death in the war.  I began crying at the site of the
 young soldier with his stomach ripped open crying for his mom.  And again
 when they showed all of the bodies littering the beach.  And again when the
 telegrams were delivered to Mrs. Ryan.  I did not expect this movie to be
 so intense, and I did not expect to walk away feeling so changed inside. 
 If I never understood before, I now understand why the veterans who came
 back from the wars were so changed, and so different.  Possibly the most gut
-wrenching scene (besides the ending, which I won't spoil) was the scene when
 the German soldier was begging the Americans not to kill him and singing
 American songs.  Anyone who says this movie dragged in the middle or was
 too sentimental or too mushy or too graphic obviously is not in touch with
 their emotions.  This movie was by far the best I have seen in my 16 years
 of life.

******
9 August 1998
10

     Saving Private Ryan shows you all the horrors of war as well as the way
 humans react in this terrible time.  The movie is quite graphic in
 depicting war.  This is not like those old Nick Fury comics where some
 people are hurt but fighting the good fight will pull you through.  It is
 real, in every form.  The acting is excellent, especially Hanks.  You know
 the characters and really feel bad when they die.  
     As I said the movie is graphic.  I think some people may leave feeling
 ill.  The battle scenes are the most brutal since Glory.  You are right
 there with the units.  Just as Full Metal Jacket is the best on Nam and
 Glory is the best Cival War movie, Saving Private Ryan is the best World
 War 2 movie.

******
9 August 1998
10

I've always considered myself a fan of Speilberg. He has consistently turned
 out fine, entertaining work. As a serious filmmaker he excels. As a
 director of slick entertainments, he also excels. Unlike many who believe
 Schindlers List has been his masterpiece, I feel ET was a greater
 acheivement. As good as Schindlers List was (and it was very, very good),
 its impact seemed at times forced. All this aside, nothing could prepare me
 for Saving Private Ryan. The film is not the work of a great director, it is
 the work of a world-class artist. It is stunning. It is devastating. It
 works where it should not work. It works where you do not want it to work.
 It is a simple war film. It is an intellectual challenge. It is cold and
 distant.
 It is raw and emotional. I have never seen or experienced anything quite
 like it before. The only film I can remember reacting to in such a way is
 Pasolinis great (and repugnant) film Salo. Both are kicks in the gut. Both
 (and I'm sure there are not many admirers of Salo out there) are cries from
 the depths that eventually by their ends not only expose human evils, but
 also depict hope and dignity. I cannot say enough for Saving Private Ryan.
 All I can say is experience it for yourself.

******
8 August 1998
8

Thank goodness!  In a world where Bruce Willis climbs aboard asteroids,
 dinosaurs ravage metropolis, and famous sports figures (Brett Favre) all
 but steal the best-looking babes (Cameron Diaz), it is a nice change of
 pace to see something REAL in summer films.  "Saving Private Ryan" isn't a
 perfect movie, but is sure is powerful in conveying the horrors of war. 
 Leave it to Steven Spielberg to blast all of the "ID4s", "Armageddons" and 
"Lethal Weapons" into oblivion.


******
7 August 1998
10

An unbelievably realistic war film. The opening sequence, depicting the
 Normandy invasion, is the most intense and shocking battle scene ever
 filmed. The movie horrifies, but also packs an emotional wallop that leaves
 you spent. Wow.

******
7 August 1998
7

I found "Saving Private Ryan" rather elementary.  Yes, it makes me proud to
 be an American, but many movies do that ("Primary Colors" is a better, and
 more recent, standout), and Spielberg seems to be interpreting the horrors
 of war while rarely showing the human element behind it, and consequently
 dulls the impact of the message: War is very, very bad.  The film lacks
 intelligence, and perhaps lacks a soul as well, despite its patriotic
 fervor.  Tom Hanks is quite good, though, as the tortured captain whose
 face is a mask of quiet despair.  In one scene, where the soldiers under
 his command want to shoot a German prisoner, Hanks turns away, trying to
 become blind to it all.  His performance and the dazzling cinematography
 make up for a so-so story and a script containing approximately fifteen
 coherent sentences (still five or six more than "Close Encounters," though
).

******
6 August 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is simply the best war movie ever made and also the best
 movie of this summer for now. Steven Spielberg is the best producer of all
 time !

******
5 August 1998
10

It is normal to believe that once a director makes a film like SCHINDLER'S
 LIST, he will struggle for the rest of his career trying to live up to it;
 not Steven Speilberg. I cannot describe with words the power of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN. All I can say
 is that its overall execution is simply perfect.  The depiction of the
D-Day invasion is
 more than worth the price of admission and should receive
 special recognition as the greatest scene ever filmed.  It is completely
 horrifying, as it should be; editing, cinematography and sound have been
 given a new standard with this terrifying sequence.  That scene, along with
 the rest of the movie, is ultimately a tribute to its director.  In
 Speilberg's hands, the level of drama reaches unchartered territory.  Be
 patient, I'm only getting started.The screenplay totally delivers.  Robert Rodat's characterizations are
 subtle, yet powerful, and when someone dies, your sorrow lingers because
 you feel you have truly known them for that brief period of time.  This is
 a tribute to the actors as well.Unfortunately, fifty years from now Tom Hanks will probably be remembered as
 "the guy who played Forrest Gump"; he shouldn't be.  For me, Hanks will
 always be Captain John Miller -- a decent man with a knack for leadership,
 a man who truly loves each boy he leads into battle, a man who is quietly
 more terrified than any of those boys.  The genius in Hanks' performance
 lies not in his portrayal of an Army Captain, but in the way he makes us
 believe that John Miller truly IS a Captain. A word of advice to the
Academy:  
DON'T BE POLITICAL!  THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH SOMEONE
 WINNING THREE OSCARS IN SIX YEARS!  Not if he/she deserves it,
 as Hanks does.The supporting cast is also phenomenal.  Matt Damon brings integrity and
 honor to the role of Private James Ryan;  you feel that Miller's squad has
 made the right decision in doing their best to find him.
  Barry Pepper is terrific as Private Jackson, the religious sniper from
 Tennessee.  Edward Burns hits the bullseye as Private Reiben, the cynical
 chatterbox from Brooklyn.  The most solid supporting performance, however,
 is given by one of Hollywood's most underrated actors -- Tom Sizemore.  His
 portrayal of the loyal Sergeant Horvath is amazing and, at its core, truly
 heartfelt.  I pray he gets at least a nomination, if not a little golden
 boy of his own next March.Next March is a fitting topic to conclude on.  Be prepared to hear "SAVING
 PRIVATE RYAN", "Steven Speilberg", "Tom Hanks" etc. quite frequently at the
 71st Annual Academy Awards.  With this stunning epic, those phrases deserve
 to be all over the little white envelopes as they are torn open next year. 


******
5 August 1998
10

I had the feeling that Spielberg made this movie at the request of veterans
 who told him that no movie thus far had shown what the war was really like.


******
5 August 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan left me speechless.  To say it was a quality film does
 not do it justice.  It's a shame that there will be an inevitable posse of
 people who don't like this film.  (I hate those achingly typical
 individuals who feel a need to buck the majority.)  Admittedly, it's not a
 film for everyone, but no one can say that it wasn't a well-done motion
 picture.  The actors did a stellar job of bringing what could have easily
 been stereotypical soldiers to life.  Giovanni Ribisi was particularly
 riveting (in my humble opinion).  Still, I have one itty-bitty bone to pick
 with this film.  It's a shame that Spielberg had to frame his incredible
 WWII story with a painfully contrived modern-day scene.  I dealt with the
 beginning, but the end was positively gooey with cheese.  What happened 
 during WWII was the story, not what happened after.  Other than that, 
 I commend Spielberg for creating such an affecting motion picture (and for
 having the courage to cast such brilliant, yet relatively unknown, actors).
  

******
5 August 1998
9

As many others have remarked, the first 25 minutes of this film are intense,
 brutal, and painful to endure. I agree there. However, I disagree with some
 that the "shaky" cam during the Normandy sequence was jarring or headache
-inducing. Completely drawn in, never once did I stop to think I was viewing
 the gore and horror through a lens. I was there. And I didn't want to be. I
 closed my eyes during some scenes, but I couldn't close my ears, I couldn't
 escape - the bullets kept on flying.How could anyone survive something like that and go on to lead a semi-normal
 life? I couldn't even watch "White Christmas" after seeing this movie; at
 the first sight of a WWII jeep, I wanted to cry. What is it like for
 someone who was really there?Good movies simultaneously make us think and feel, and this one did that for
 me. I only wish Spielberg would have cast unknowns in all of the parts;
 seeing Tom Hanks and Matt Damon in the midst of this ultra-realistic
 violence reminded me it was still Hollywood pulling the strings. Most
 people have commented that Hanks should win an Oscar, but I think that
 would be unfair to the rest of the cast. The grueling process they had to
 endure, the dark heart of humanity each actor had to face to make such a
 film, makes them all deserving of recognition. Hanks played Captain Miller
 with honesty and grace, but I don't think he necessarily outshone the
 performances of Tom Sizemore, Ed Burns, or Jeremy Davies.Analyzing the plot or the characters is missing the point. If the "Jew" had
 been the sniper from Tennesee or the "Brooklynite" had been the combat-shy
 translator, most of you would still complain about stereotypes. People say
 they didn't care about the characters because they weren't "interesting."
 Is everyone you meet on the street incredibly "interesting"? I doubt it.
 The point isn't to care or not care when they get killed, but to realize
 this really happened, to all kinds of men and women that we may find boring
 or typical in civilian life, but who put their lives on the line.Some say they didn't need the "war is hell" message crammed down their
 throats. Well, that's great for you, but if "everyone" knows war is bad,
 death is bad, why is it still so rampant in our society? War is always
 happening somewhere. This movie shows that not only is war hell, but the
 death of one man is just as tragic. If everyone really did know this, we
 wouldn't have gang wars, drive-by shootings, or terrorist bombings.
 Everyone NEEDS to know this. And if a gut-wrenching movie will drive this
 message home to those people, then I'm all for it.And though this is getting too long already, I have to say one more thing:
 many of you didn't care for the apparent sappiness of the "bookend" scenes
 of the old man at the cemetery. Why does everyone have such an aversion to
 sentiment? I say things in my every day life that, if someone were to make
 them movie dialogue, would sound hopelessly cheesy. But that doesn't make
 them any less true or real.

******
5 August 1998
10

Not being a big fan of Tom Hanks or movies that seem to get blown up
 reviews. I went into this movie prepared for a let down from all the
pre-release
 hype.
How can ANYBODY say 'what war is like' unless they have been in one?  If you
 see SPR you will feel like you have, the only difference is you come back
 alive. After the first assault on the audiences' senses, SPR tracks a group
 of 8 men sent out to bring back one. For all the people who say the plot is
 unbelievable or the characters 'weak', that is hogwash. This is one of the
 best movies of all time-maybe not THE BEST but it ranks up there with
 SCHINDLER'S LIST, GONE with the WIND, and all the other academy award
 winners. Check out the movie, be your own judge. I saw it in SDDS THX and I
 wouldn't recommend seeing it in anything else.  Invest the $6.00 or $7.00
 dollars and YOU determine if "WAR IS HELL"

******
5 August 1998
8

This was a change of pace from every other movie that has come out this
 summer.  I went in to see a lot of action, then found a movie with
 historical backgrounds and moral issues of war.  I heard how violent this
 movie was, but I was still caught off guard.  I think this was the most
 violent movie I've ever seen.  All in all, the movie was excellent.  You
 might want to stay away from the hot dog while viewing this movie.


******
5 August 1998
10

Everything that I thought this movie was going to be changed in the first 5
 minutes.  Saving Private Ryan is an unwavering trek into the deepest
 darkest horrors of war.  Spielberg pulls no punches in his telling of the
 tale of 8 brave men on a mission to save a mothers last remaining son. 
 Hanks delivers a performance that is sure to bring him his third Best Actor
 Oscar, and Tom Sizemore is superb as a hard-nosed sergeant that stands at
 Hanks' side.  Powerful performances and incredible special effects make this
 one of the best films of Steven Spielberg's career.

******
4 August 1998
10

Saving Private Ryan is a film which brings up many of the 
important questions regarding the morality of war. It doesn't try to answer
any of them, but asks each individual to examine themselves, as so many
died just so that we may live. Sizemore's and Hanks' performances are of
Oscar caliber, as is the cinematography and direction. During the battle
scenes Spielberg overexposes the film and cranks it at a different speed
which effectively takes the viewer into the surrealism of battle. A truly
wonderful piece of art, that doesn't fall into  sentimentalism.


******
4 August 1998
9

"War is hell."  For most of us that's an intellectual truth.  We've had no
 personal contact with the brutality of battle.  Steven Spielberg doesn't
 let us get away with such detachment.  He forces the senseless slaughter
 and stupidity of war right in our faces.  The first 25 minutes of this film
 is, without doubt, the goriest 25 minutes of film to date.
 In the midst of carnage, we begin to become
 attached to Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and his men.  When, after
 surviving the horrors of the first hours, they are assigned the perilous
 task of searching out one soldier (behind enemy lines), we worry for their
 safety.  And well we should.  The mayhem is far from over.  This is not a
 sentimental search-and-rescue story.  This movie is a philosophical
 dissertation on war--the do or die mentality of fighting men--personal
 courage--the rationalizations--patriotism.  It's also an excellent piece of
 film.  Similar to Schindler's List, you want to cringe from the knowledge,
 from the reality, of what you're seeing on the screen, but you are
 compelled to continue to watch.  The acting is excellent; awards are sure
 to follow.  This is a significant film which everyone should see--if they
 have the stomach for it.

******
4 August 1998
10

After reading most reviews you'll be ready for the first 25 minutes. Then it
 settles in to a routine war movie for a good halftime. Watch out for the
 last battle sequences, they're as intense as the beginning. The handheld
 camera used in the fire fights makes the film. Throw in Spielberg's knack
 for hitting the right emotional buttons and --- voila! Acadamy Nomination.      I hope it wins best picture if for no other reason
      than to show the unenlightened Hawks and Gung-Ho
      militarists what war really is. We had to fight that
      war. We will have to fight others.            Make it the last alternative.  

******
4 August 1998
10

As a history major, brought up in Normandy, I loved this movie.  It seemed
 real to me, every single minute of it, so close to the stories I heard in
 my childhood.  I knew what happened during the D-Day landing, I know all
 the sites and museums connected to it.  This movie made me realize
 something else: the horror that these guys had to go through to make my
 country free.  This isn't about war theories but about men who weren't
soldiers
 before WWII.  

******
4 August 1998
10

This should be the best movie of the year. The first 30 Min. are the most
 intense battle scenes I have ever seen.  I think this movie should be shown
 in all the American History classes in the country.  Sometimes we forget
 what our forefathers did for us.  This movie got me very interested in this
 era so I read up on it a little.  I can recommend three books to read that
 will give more information on D-Day.  The books are "D-DAY June 6th, 1944",
  "Citizen Soldiers" by Stephen E. Ambrose and "The Glory and the Dream" by
 William Manchester. I highly recomend this movie 
Thank You Robert Neeley

******
3 August 1998
10
Usually I'm pretty reluctant to see movies at a friend's recommendation-
-they're so built up by the time I actually see them and I'm rather
disappointed.  However, there is no way that anyone can be prepared for the
effects of this film, and I was certainly NOT disappointed.  There is no
way that anyone can accurately describe what this movie contains--the
people it portrays, the senses and sounds it illustrates, and the emotions
that it evokes.  It is true that this film is frighteningly realistic; it's
certainly not for the faint of heart.  However, it is still only a film,
and it delivers only a mere FRACTION of what our veterans experienced in
the horrors of battle.  This is one of the most horrifying yet fascinating
and moving films that I have ever seen in my life.Saving Private Ryan is a very emotionally disturbing movie in terms of
seeing the too real horrors of war on the silver screen because Hollywood
is usually shiny, happy and perfect.  In a way it's a bit ironic that
something so horrible can appear in such compact form.  It's not supposed
to be real, and it's supposed to comfort us--isn't that what show business
is about?  This movie didn't do that.  I almost became ill at some of the
scenes.  Merely sitting in an air-conditioned theatre with Dolby Digital
Surround Sound watching this film was a bit nerve-racking, I must say. 
Imagine what real war must be like.While watching this movie, I felt sickened with paralyzing fear at the
thoughts of war, being wounded, and dying in battle; in my mind's eye, I
imagined my friends and I in the same situation.  I simply couldn't fathom
it, nor will I ever.  I thank the powers that be for the men and women who
did suffer through those battles.  I thank the men and women who died for
me, who died for my family, and who died for my friends.  I thank the
soldiers who serve today, who keep the rest of us safe so that we don't
have to go into battle ourselves.It's films like Saving Private Ryan that give me a hundred times more
respect for the armed forces.  This is the film that gives us a glimpse of
what we normally don't see or experience.  This is the film everybody
should see to gain insight into how lucky we civilians really are.  This is
the film about horrifying truth and enlightening respect and understanding.
I guess that's what Hollywood can be about, too.Thank you,PiriyaMinister of Propaganda"And praise will come to those whose kindness leaves you without debt, and
bends the shape of things to come that haven't happened yet." - Neil Finn


******
3 August 1998
10
This movie accomplished the following:
a) EVERYONE should be obliged to view this superior film artifact.
b) That being said, I don't think I'll go back to see it again, since it was
like being there, and perhaps like some veterans, I don't want to rush to
return to the battlefield.This summarizes how much this movie AFFECTED me.  It's a week after I saw it
, and I can still feel it in my gut.Makes you believe that those with 'war stories' probably were not anywhere
near the real battlefields.  Makes you believe that perhaps some of these
people marching on July 4th are only representative of those who were
really there.Makes you want to search these noble veterans out, and hug them and tell
them 'thank-you' while they are still on this earth to thank.A movie that must been seen in the theater, to experience the sound as well
as the sights....don't wait for the tape...you'd be missing out on something
that will change you.This film cannot be over-exaggerated.

******
3 August 1998
9
Saving Private Ryan is a terrific movie, and of course, the 
opening battle sequence must be a one of a kind best ever kind 
of sequence. 
 
However, I felt that at times it got a little overly 
sentimental. Especially at the very end. That is the only reason
I refrained from giving it a perfect ten

******
3 August 1998
9
All the other reviews have pretty much summed up how great a movie this is.
An instant classic. So I'll just add a few of my own thoughts. This is a
must-see movie for a GOOD THEATRE with GOOD SOUND if you want to appreciate
the battle sequences. The surround sound puts you right in the middle of
the battle with explosions all over the place and bullets whizzing by to
the right and left. See it in the theatre with the best sound system
possible. The D-Day sequence is one of the most brilliant movie sequences
ever filmed. This is Spielberg's second greatest film: Schindler's List is
still his most powerful. And this is probably one of the best, if not the
best, war films. The only other one that comes close is Full Metal Jacket,
which is more disturbing but not as comprehensive or as emotionally
involving. As far as the gore and violence, it's intense and brutal but is not nearly
as bad as most gory horror films; it doesn't even come close to the Day of
the Dead/Dawn of the Dead movies, but it's a completely different kind of
violence. It's very real, not fantasy or comic-book violence. I think most
12-year old kids can handle this, and I think most boys 12 and up should
see this film, since it will show them a glimpse of what real violence
looks like, and maybe counteract the kind of stuff they see in Armageddon
and video games.

******
2 August 1998
10
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of the best war films ever made simply because
of its refusal to leave anything to the imagination.  Nothing in this film
is ambiguous, supported by vehement images of dismembering and dying. 
Whereas water drops hit the camera lens in another movie, blood splatters
all over it in this one.  The first 24 minutes are shot confusingly, using
shaky, hand-held camera motion, ground level angle shots, numerous soldiers'
POVS, as well as expert cinematography, creating a "news-reel" footage
feel, gritty and fast.  The war is chaotic and anything but fun. Dialogue in this movie is succint and to the point.  Most of the characters
exhibit their emotions merely by staring, emaciated, into the camera. 
 
Spielberg has created a graphic, candid image of war, something unparalled
but highly controversial.  Many people argue that some things should be
left lightly without gratuity. To get the poignant purpose across, as well
as many of the themes, however, Spielberg must let the audience identify
with the characters, their fears and their insanity.  The human stories are
bettered by the horrific images.  When they lose it, we don't question
them.  I don't question Spielberg either for taking a great story and
providing it with vivid visuals.  


******
2 August 1998
10
This is the reason why Steven Spielberg is the greatest director
alive,
possibly the greatest director of all time.  This film is about heroes,
real heroes, and it is something that EVERY American should see.You look at an old man and see just an old man-- but how do you know what
this old man has done in his life?  What he's seen and done?  "Saving
Private Ryan" caused me to stop and think about that.  It caused me to stop
and consider the sacrifices young American men have made throughout this
nation's history.  Sacrifices many of the men in my own family have made. This is no John Wayne war film.  The heroes of this movie were young men who
were there to do a job.  They were scared to death.  They screamed and
prayed and cried for their mothers. This film brings home (as best as any
film can) the absolute horror and carnage of war and the very human way
people react to such a nightmare.  They were unwilling heroes, just like
every other dogface who went to war in real life.Mr. Spielberg has made the best war movie ever to hit the theaters, and the
actors-- all of them-- were outstanding.  But let this film remind you of
the real men who fought for us in real battles.  This film is a tribute to
them, and I don't think Mr. Spielberg will disagree with that statement. 
The film is gory and loud and frightening-- and it should be.  Just
remember, our fathers and grandfathers were there.  Think about that the
next time you see an old man doddering down the street. 

******
2 August 1998
10
Saving Private Ryan was probably the most graphic War Epic I've
seen.
Speilburg's camera-work made you feel like you were actually in the battle,
looking around at everything that's going on. When I walked into the
theater, I remember my dad telling me "Remember, you don't have to look at
the gore if you dont' want." But I sucked it up, I've lived through
watching 5,000,000 blood shed hollywood epics, I can watch this i thought
to myself, but in the first scene at D-day, I was basicly in tears, the
thing that bothered me wasn't the blood, but it was how these men had to
die, you see how they died, one man's stomach and intistine was all over
and out of his stomach crying "MOM!!" I felt sorry for these people, in
school when we talked about World War II, we thought of it as, "Ya, it was
bad." But I think Private Ryan actually grips you, it even scares you.
Tom Hanks gave a  
wonderful performence,  I think Tom Hanks will get the Oscar,
I also have strong feelings that it will get at least Director and Picture
also. I think everyone should see the movie, so everyone knows that World
War II wasn't something that was just there. I mean, my Grandfather fought
in this war, he saw all this that was happening, your grandfathers faught,
and your fathers, and brothers, etc., If you don't leave the theater with
tears in your eyes, at least deep down in your heart, you can at least feel
sad for these people who had to risk their lives to win the war.My Rate- **** out of ****

******
1 August 1998
10
Saving Private Ryan was wonderful!  The sound...the hand-held
cameras,
 everything.  Speilberg has re-created the method of how to tell a war story,
 for the better.  It was a little gory, but everyone should see this movie
 except young children, and WWII vets (May bring back flashbacks...they've
 been through enough) The only thing I thought was weak about Saving Private
 Ryan was its characters....in a war movie like Platoon, you're incredibly
 horrified to see the characters die, because you feel like you actually
 know them.  Its like you were there with them.  You KNEW them, you FELT for
 them.  This was completely absent in Saving Private Ryan.  It was still
 great though.  Oscar for Hanks, Speilberg, the movie itself, sound, and a
 best supporting actor for either Edward Burns, or Matt Damon.  Oscars all
 around for this movie!  There's no way there will be a better film this
 year.  

******
1 August 1998
10
    It has been six days since I saw Saving Private Ryan, and not
an hour
 has gone by that I have not replayed a scene of the movie in my head. 
 Never before has a movie touched my inner spirit as SPR.  It is an
 explosive film that fills the viewer with such ghastly images, that you are
 left numb with astonishment.  Filmmaker Steven Spielberg, has given us the
 most realistic, horrific, and true vision of war we as an audience may ever
 see.     
    As a college student studying to be a teacher, I pray that one day this
 film will be required viewing for all history students.  
    Please, see this film!!  If not for the sheer entertainment of seeing
 the highest standard of filmmaking this year (possibly ever!!) see it out
 of respect for the millions of men and women who gave their lives for our
 way of life.  
    Sometimes we must spend a little time in someone else's life, to learn
 their story.       


******
1 August 1998
7
This movie contained the most realistic and horrifying combat footage I've
ever seen.  They really exceeded my already high expectations.  The story,
however, is lacking in spots.  The German soldiers were far too impersonal.
This would have made a great anti-war film if that point had been driven
home with a more balanced story.

******
31 July 1998
10
This was one of the most powerful movies ever made. I saw it the
first day
 it was out and my life was changed forever. In the
well-publicized opening half-hour, you get a sense of the violence and heroism
 of WWII. The opening scenes have the best hand-held camera work ever done
 in film history. The low angles
and the shakiness add to the feeling of actually being there. Some of the visuals are extremely touching. I had chills for half the movie.
 Tom Sizemore and Ed Burns both give great performances squarring off
 against each other, reminesant of Elais and Barnes in PLATOON. It may sound cheesey, but I wasn't the same after this movie. It changed
 me. The brutality is evident, but if you love movies it won't cloud the
 plot of this great story. I wish there were words to express how I felt
 after seeing this movie. The only thing I could do was want to write my own
 war movie.SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, the title can't even begin to explain the feeling you
 get while you see what eight men went through to
save one. Thank you Steven Speilburg and Robert Rodat  

******
30 July 1998
7
This movie gave me a headache!  The photography, I must tell you, is unique.
The camera is never still during battle scenes.  It made me nauseous
watching a 70' screen shake as the cameraman follows soldiers around a
battle scene.  Spielberg purposelessly made the camera vibrate rather than
damping it, a la Shaky Cam.  If Spielberg likes this effect, I don't.  Not
for every single shot in every single battle.Besides poor camera work, the plot was somewhat thin.  It was a complex plot
for a war movie, but it was still lacking.  I would give the screenwriting
a "C" only because there was some good comic relief.  But the entire movie
was so predictable, that the length (over two hours) made the movie
languish.  Toward the end, all I wanted was for the men to find Ryan,
finish their little war game, and send him home -- so I could go
home.The characters, well, what can we say.  They are stereotypes, what the movie
script writers call "composite" characters.  The guy who freezes up.  The
intellectual.  The guy who's the gung-ho no-frills ground-pounder.  The guy
everyone looks up to.  The guy whose every other line is a half-audible
prayer.I could almost see the script as I watched the film.  It was because the
characters, even though they are well-developed, are still one dimensional.
They are almost completely static.Outstanding directing, average screenwriting, excellent realism and effects,
average music, and superb sound make this movie one of the best of 1998. 
But I watched this movie the same day as I saw Gone With the Wind, and I'm
sorry, there's just no comparison.  7 out of 10.  Go see Vivien Leigh
again.

******
30 July 1998
8
The first segment makes you say, "hmmm, I wonder what this is about".  Then
it cuts to the Omaha Beach invasion.  As war-realistic as Spielberg wants
us to believe it is, the most realism that this segment portrays is the
excruciating pains WW2 soldiers felt as compared to our excruciating
headaches we received from this "vibrating cam".  Don't get me wrong.  I
think the first and last war segment should have been shot with this camera,
but all the segments in between should have been toned down.  Any scene
shot with this cam would make just about any person want to vomit, whether
it be a love scene or just a still scene.  I understand that Spielberg
wanted to mix the effect received psychologically to make one uncomfortable
with the effect received from the explosions, blood, guts, and screaming to
make this movie seem "real".  Well, it worked.  But still, it was a movie
that people want to be entertained, and the only entertainment received was
during the calm scenes.
On the IMDB scale, I gave it an 8.  Bad spec writing, but good rewriting by
Frank, who gave us Malice, Get Shorty, and Out of Sight.  Great direction. 
Bad cam, bad!

******
30 July 1998
10
Several things crossed my mind as I watch the horror and drama unfold on the
screen. First, I was truly sorry for not taking time to remember our war
dead last Memorial Day. Seems like many of us are more concerned about a
long holiday weekend and our plans then remembering the reason for Memorial
Day (or Veterans Day).We post our comments how SPR moved us and shocked us - lets see if we
remember this with some sort of action next Memorial Day. The second
thought I had was picturing relatives and friends from WWII (total of 6) in
those circumstances - and then how would I react to the same stimulus. How
would I react during those terrifying landings, long campaigns, gaining and
losing  commrades - very thought provoking.

******
30 July 1998
10
If anyone sees this movie and doesn't come away with an awed feeling of what
our Fathers and Grandfathers endured to secure our way of life they will
never be moved by anything. I have been to countless movies in my lifetime
and never have I witnessed such silent devotion as the audience was leaving
as for this film, and sprinkle in a few gray & bent old men with tears in
their eyes and as I said, it was awesome!!The scene where Mrs. Ryan collapsed on the porch at the approach of the
military vehicle was without doubt the most poignant and 
revealing of the entire film. Makes you know how horrible it was thousands
of times for families during the war and I have never seen it portrayed
better.
 
If this film, Tom Hanks (who nevermore will be thought of as Forrest Gump),
and Spielberg don't all win Oscars they might as well discontinue it for it
would be meaningless for any other to  receive it.

******
30 July 1998
8
The writing and the story were weak at times. The reason given
for why the military would risk the lives of eight soldiers
to save one was glossed over. Technically, the movie could
not have been any better. The acting was superb all around.
Spielberg's direction is to be admired. The cinematography
is gorgeous in an eerie way. Unfortunately Spielberg bookended
the film with two scenes that were unnecessary and, for me,
took away from the impact of the film. But this movie was not
about its story, it was about a war. The plot was a vehicle
to illustrate the war. And in that respect, the movie
successfully completes its purpose.

******
30 July 1998
10
Never before have I seen people cringe, stare open-mouthed, cheer, and cry,
then walk out of a theater in complete silence.Having witnessed the so-called "greatest act of terrorism ever to occur in
our nation," I can only say we have been so naive.  My generation doesn't
understand what war is.  We watch our movies and we get excited by violence
and gore, never feeling any guilt or sorrow for the people the actors
portray.  This film changes all of that.  It is so hard to see the men
murdered as they do "their duty" and then come to the realization that THIS
REALLY HAPPENED.  These men, our grandfathers, risked and in some cases
gave up their lives to protect all that we take for granted.  Today we cry and demand justice for the 169 people who died because a PART
of ONE building in a small city was destroyed by a bomb.  We can't even
begin to imagine running off of the landing boat only to be shot and killed
by the unseen enemy.  We see countless buildings annihilated in small,
tactically insignificant cities.This movie has made a difference in my life.  Being only 20, I have to face
that it could easily be me in the line of fire if our nation were called
once again to defend the cause of freedom and the draft were reinstated. 
All I can say is after seeing this movie, war and violence will no longer
be glorified in my mind.  Aside from the stunningly realistic portrayal of war, I can't ignore the
fact that the movie itself is spectacular.  Although the content takes the
front seat, the acting, script, and cinematography are superior.  This film
is hands down the best of the year, and one of the best movies ever made. 
Four stars!

******
30 July 1998
10
Very graphic, very realistic, very intense.  Spielberg once again proved to
be one of Hollywood's best story teller.  I recommend anyone to go see this
movie.  Bring your kids and teach them one of the most important point in
the history of human kind.


******
30 July 1998
9
Although I hate to argue, I can't say this was the "greatest war movie of
all time"Although it was a fantastic movie, although it was far more realistic than
any I've seen before, I can't decide, just like that, that this was the
one.People walked out of Titanic, raving that "This is the greatest movie ever
made!"  only now, they just think of it as a really good movie, the best of
'97, but no more.Is Private Ryan the best of '98?  Most likely, unless Cameron makes his 400
million dollar epic about the Carpathia, "the ship that saved Titanic
survivors."All kidding aside, I would like to remind you people about such films as
"The Dirty Dozen", "Platoon", "Apocalypse Now", and even "All Quiet on the
Western Front".
before you make such rash decisions about what is "The Greatest" of anything,
I'd like for you to take a gander at the classics.  If you still think you're right, then, and only then, would I accept your theory.Saving Private Ryan will be a Hollywood classic, no doubt about that.


******
30 July 1998
10
This wonderful film and maybe the greatest sequence in all of cinema: the 25-minute attack on Normandy. Intense, bloody, realistic, and great directing
combine to make that scene stupendous. Not to mention the performances by
Jeremy Davies, and Tom Hanks. This 3 hour war epic had many people in tears
and other viewers such as myself in complete awe.

******
30 July 1998
10
I am quite disappointed to hear that Saving Private Ryan is being described
as "the greatest war film ever made." It is very simply, "the greatest film
ever made." I, personally, have never viewed a film that inspires more raw
emotion than this gripping tale of risking eight men to save one. I am glad
to see that Dreamworks SKG has finally gotten its act together and
developed a high caliber motion picture. The graphic quality of this WWII
tale exposes war for what it is: not some heroic venture in the realm of
personal glory, but a horrific combination of death and destruction. The
use of hand held cameras and dulled color themes only enhances the
experience almost to the point of suggesting that the audience is there
with Capt. Miller and his men to witness the terror first hand. I truly
regard Steven Spielberg as a genius and at the same time cannot imagine any
circumstance that would prevent this film from receiving the academy's  
"best picture" award. In short, Saving Private Ryan is an amazing work of
art that cannot be adequately described in words. So go see it, you'll
cherish the experience.

******
30 July 1998
10
This is a movie on the magnitude of Schindler's List.  Mr. Spielberg seems
to want to make the definitive movie in many categories and he is certainly
succeeding.  There is no flaw to this film.

******
30 July 1998
10
The single greatest movie ever made. Everyone should see this movie to
realize what WWII veterans had to go through to make this country what it
is. It is a very powerful and intense movie.

******
30 July 1998
10
  If you want to see a movie with spectacular visual effect matched with
 sound that actually makes you feel like you are there, then this is your
 movie.  If you want to see a movie that moves the entire audience in such a
 way no one moves when it is over, then this is a movie for you.  If you
 want to see the best performance from Tom Hanks hands down, then this is
 the movie for you.
  During the first 20 odd minutes, Spielberg puts you in a beach landing. 
 You are there, machine gunners are engaging you from far away bunkers. 
 Artillery and mortar rounds are exploding around you.  Brave men are
 falling.  You will urge the American soldiers on, you will duck, you will
 smell the salt water and blood, you will yell "medic", and you will feel
 war.  Truly, this one battle is the best scene depicting war other than
 film taken of actual battles (and this may be better).
  My hat is off to Spielberg.  Truly this is a great movie, and only a few
 can even come close to comparing to it.  Not since Schindler's List has a
 movie moved me.
  If this movie does not win best picture, best actor, best supporting actor,
 best director, best writing, best cinematography, best sound, best editing,
 best effects, and a slew of others then those that vote did not see this
 movie.


******
29 July 1998
10
"Saving Private Ryan," with the possible exception of "Glory" and "Platoon" 
(and neither of those was about WWII) is the most spectacular and, as far as
 I can tell, accurate portrayal of a major world war, except for maybe one
 point: War is worse.  And here's the difference I have with most reviewers,
 and even Spielberg himself;  I believe that EVERY child, of about 15+ in
 age, should see this movie.  If only for an understanding of the absolute
 horror of killing other human beings (and fish) by the THOUSANDS in the
 name of democracy or some other damn thing.  I confess that I never really
 understood such issues as the taking of Omaha Beach on D-Day.  At least,
 not beyond the reflection of poets and storytellers "...And those men took
 that beach..."  I never realized quite how terrible the ground war was.  As
 an Air Force Cadet, I studied the aspects of the world's first air war,
 which in and of itself was bad enough.A friend of mine was telling me what he thought of the movie today, and he
 said "It was enjoyable."  Well, that's not quite how I would describe the
 experience.  "Excruciatingly emotional" is more what I was feeling.  Yup, I
 cried.  And one line at the very end between a man and his wife strikes me
 even now, two days later.  Eric knows what I'm talking about, I'm sure. I've
 been crying a lot at movies recently, which is odd.  "Titanic", I cried
 at, but sort of enjoyed having that little damn burst.  Before that, 
"Braveheart" got me every time.  Even "Deep Impact" got the tears flowing a
 bit.  But those were all a little fun in the release.  As I was walking out
 of "Ryan," (in a theater that was, although sold out, absolutely dead
 silent as people exited, most looking at the floor) I felt not a cleansing,
 but a slightly gnawing guilt.  I'll see it again.  Mostly so I can pay more
 attention to the technical aspects of the film (if I can) and try to
 determine how I might someday make a film half as good as the one Steven
 Spielberg's genius has wrought this time.  His best?  Possibly.  But it's
 hard to differentiate five or six "five stars out of five" movies.  If you're
 looking for another, less gory but still brutal look at WWII from
 Spielberg, check out "Empire of the Sun,"  a movie that was far better than
 it's box office take, and one of the first people movies that makes me cry.


******
29 July 1998
10
Steven Spielberg has given us one of the best movies of all time; certainly
 the greatest war movie ever made.  But more importantly, an entire
 generation that views World War II as ancient history, will finally be able
 to appreciate the sacrifice made by thousands of young boys, whose
 willingness to die allows us to enjoy freedom.  The graphic realism of
 combat that Spielberg portrays on screen is necessary and will take your
 breath away.  It will also make you proud."Saving Private Ryan" is a MUST SEE movie.  It should be viewed every year,
 right before Memorial Day.        

******
29 July 1998
10
I believe that SAVING PRIVATE RYAN was one of the best war movies ever made
because it shows what war is really about.  I have seen tons of movies
where violence is portrayed as a cool shoot-em up blow-em up thing.  This
movie has a lot of violence but shows the reality of what happened a half
-century ago and the horrible brutality of war.  The actors were fabulous in
recreating the war.  Not to mention the battle scenes were perfect.  Steven
Spielberg has done an excellent job of recreating the events of Omaha Beach
in the first 24 minutes of the film.  This movie shows war in its most
truthful sense.  It made me stop and think just how many people died
horrible deaths to save our country.  It made me want to cry like few
movies do.  This movie is the closest you will get to seeing what life was
like during WWII.

******
29 July 1998
10
What a great movie it was. I see it this afternoon and I have comment: Spielberg can do anything and anything he do is great and spectacular. 4
stars out of 4.

******
29 July 1998
5
I saw SAVING PRIVATE RYAN the other day and if you ask me the movie was very
good, but not great.  Yes, it by far was the most graphic and realistic war
movie to date, but it seemed to lack in certain places.  I did not agree
that the US would risk eight men for the life of one and the movie seemed
to drag on in the middle sections.  However, I give it 8 stars out of 10.


******
29 July 1998
10
This is by far the greatest movie I have ever seen. Better than Citizen Kane,
 better than Gone with the Wind, and definitely better than Titanic. I
 couldn't stop thinking about this movie after I saw it. The D-Day sequence
 alone is worth the admission. Your mouth will be wide open the entire 24
 minutes.  The ending battle was also very good and intense. There images
 from this movie that I will never forget like a scene where a soldier gets
 shot in the helmet but it does not punch through the metal and he takes it
 off to investigate and get his head blown off, or when a soldier runs with
 a lit sticky bomb at a tank only to have it explode in his hand and blow
 him to bits. There are some funny parts, but most of the film is serious.
 This is the best film of Spielberg's and Hank's career. This is going to
 get more oscars than Titanic. You will never forget this amazing
 film and hopefully it will teach people that WAR IS HELL!


******
8 October 2015
10
This movies opening scene is one of the most brutal, horrific, yet
accurate representations of war I have seen. This scene sets the mood
for the whole movie. While the rest of the movie is not quite as
intense, it quickly involves you in the characters and you sympathize
with them because of what they have endured. You truly care for them
and are interested in their well being. The realization that what they
have experienced is only the beginning of the story is a grim one
indeed. The war is not over, and thus it is not finished shaping the
men in focus. They will be molded and formed in innumerable ways as the
war takes a hold of their psyche and their lives. In conclusion, I
believe this is the best war movie of all time and one of if not Steven
Spielberg's best films.

******
30 September 2015
10
The best film I have ever watched. It includes action and drama. And
these are combined with a proper way. Every one should watch this film
with a good surround and vision system. So that it influences you more
like me :) Of course it will be best to watch this in cinema but not
possible right now I suppose. Especially some scenes are really
unforgettable. By watching this film you can understand how bad a war
is especially when it is a World War. I still couldn't understand how
Saving Private Ryan couldn't win the best Picture award in 1999.
American Beauty isn't as impressive as Saving Private Ryan. This film
deserves to be in top 10 in IMDb. Please watch and decide yourself.

******
26 August 2015
10
Saving Private Ryan a film with more than 2 million reviews on this
website so what more is there to say other than these words Thank you
Steven Spielberg for telling this story to the world and making a
memory for all of the world to cherish and remember till the day we all
must die I mean what more can I say just unforgettable editing and
incredible direction it is an incredibly powerful and restrained film
and it is also a hauntingly beautiful requiem to all the men who fought
for us so we could live our life's it is so haunting the opening 25 to
30 minute D-Day scene is so haunting and emotional it almost feels like
it is June 6th 1944 today I am serious and the last 30 to 35 minutes
are unforgettable both of those scenes are like bookends you have 1
huge set piece to begin the film and then you have 1 huge set piece to
end the film the film starts with James Ryan as an old man and ends
with him as an old man it is like a bookend. The Score by John Williams
is haunting and restrained like the film and the film does not rely on
the score so much but the Hymn to the Fallen is the most haunting piece
of music I have ever heard and should be played at all remembrance
services but is not why I have no idea! Just a unforgettable film and
yet again like the Color Purple in the most unjust Oscars ever Saving
Private Ryan Did not win best Picture Steven Spielberg won Best
Director but what beat Saving Private Ryan to the Best Picture award
Shakespeare In Love crazy and a disgusting unjust decision the worst
decision the Oscars have ever made that and the Color Purple not
winning Best Picture are just wrong decisions just wrong they knew they
were the best pictures of 1985 and 1998 and they got it wrong so wrong
the third time this has happened actually with ET losing to Gandhi in
1982 just wrong decisions! Anyway I want to finish by saying Thank you
to Steven Spielberg and John Williams yet again you have directed and
composed another masterpiece together and this film is a haunting and
beautiful requiem for all the men who gave their life's for us and for
that I hereby award this film Best Picture of 1998 even if the Oscars
will not!

******
22 August 2015
10
One of the best Army based movies iv ever seen ! Beautifully shot ! So
Realistic at that time ! Great Cast and Full Effort !Emotional and energetic movie ! The Movie Is Awesome <3 I watch this movie many times but every time there is a Joy!Any movie which is based on true story is always close to my heart but
this movie takes the lead :)Ap log is movie KO watch Karna :pMarvelous acting ... Love to see V. Diesel in Army suit ! Tom Hanks was awesome ! Matt (Y)

******
21 August 2015
10
It's a very well made movie, I especially enjoyed the part where they
are enjoying the beach together. Even though the weather is bad.The movie starts with buddy army guys getting on a boat to travel to
France together and enjoy a lovely summer. Although the beach in France
is already occupied by angry German visitors that polluted the beach
with their junk.Its the army their task to clean the mess up and tell the president of
Germany that their country tourists are pigs and need to clean up their
mess.It could be a summers best if they left out the angry Germans. But
without them it would be a silly movie.

******
4 July 2015
8
After the most amazing recreation of a war epos in one shot (or how to
compress a wonder movie like The Longest Day in 20 minutes), Tom Hanks
graces us with a personal travel through Normandy based in personal
weakness and group strengths. How a literature teacher, with experience
in summer basket teams, can cope with the horrors and unsensical
situations of a total war? Just following the logic of the situation:
field manual up to the core and thinking that every life lost
represents ten saved. "Angels on our shoulders" will grant us the
possibility to earn a full life. Do we deserve it? Only a row of
marbled crosses will be able to answer... Why then not a 10? Simple...
I have seen German War graveyards... where each cross is shared by 3
persons per side. With people from early 50's to those that barely
reached 18. War is hell for all... not only for Private Ryan.

******
17 May 2015
10
This movie is (in my opinion) Spielberg's best, and when it comes to
war movies, a strong contender for the best war movie ever. The
storyline makes you question the mission and the sacrifice of lives in
war throughout the whole movie. The story is touching and made me angry
at the same time. The great cinematography and equally great special
effects emerge you in the story. The cast is great, and works great as
an ensemble. Typical for a Spielberg movie, John Williams made the
music, and didn't disappoint. It brings war and all its terrors to
screen in a more emerging way than any other movie (e.g. the opening D-
Day scene). An absolute must see movie, especially for war movie fans.

******
10 February 2015
10
Best War movie out there. Although Band of Brothers is better but that
isn't a movie but I highly recommended that to anyone. This is
Hollywood best film that portrays war to date! This movie doesn't show
glory of war. I'm a huge WW2 buff and my Grandfather(on my mother's side) served with
691st Tank Destroyer Battalion during the European campaign with the
U.S. I also had family member, who was a U.S Marine that died on the
U.S.S California during the Attack on Pearl Harbor.In the end this a well made film fore every film lover because it is an
excellent war drama that puts you in the war with really develop
characters who are not portrayed as heroes.

******
4 February 2015
10
"Saving Private Ryan" is the best WW2 film out there. It starts off
with a memorable 25 minute opening sequence which is arguably the best
scene in a Spielberg movie. It is highly realistic for its time and
it's tense from beginning to end. At the end of the sequence, it shows
you a dead soldier from the "Ryan" family. Later we find out that 3 of
the 4 members of his family died and Capt. John Miller (Tom Hanks) and
a group of 7 soldiers are sent to bring the remaining brother back to
his family before he dies as well. With an unforgettable story, the
plot is quite moving even just thinking about it. The movie was also
expertly shot and acted. Every action scene is realistic as it is
bloody. After soldiers are killed off, it makes the soldiers question
if the mission is worth it and it often creates conflict with them. The
final battle has a big buildup and carries on for just the right
length.The ending is tragic and it gets me every time but its emotional
resonance sticks with the viewer after watching it. This is one of the
best films of the 90's due to its impact on the viewer.

******
17 November 2014
9
One of the most important movies of the 1990s and a triumph for Steven
Spielberg, helping to keep alive the story of the Greatest Generation
and remind us of the sacrifice of war.Spielberg takes time to introduce us to a small band of soldiers,
getting to see the end of World War 2 through their eyes. The movie
follows the last days of the European war, as the American forces push
into France against a Nazi army that is not yet ready to give up. To
say much more would be giving away major plot developments, but the
plot features several major surprises and gripping battle scenes."Saving Private Ryan" also features an incredible cast, including Tom
Hanks, Matt Damon, and many cameo appearances from Nathan Fillion, Ted
Danson and others.

******
15 October 2014
9
This film is lauded as one of the greatest films of all time and I do
believe this film is fantastic, but I believe that it is not a ten out
of ten film for a few reasons that I will explain. This film is based
in ww2 and the start of the film is the invasion of Normandy better
known as d-day. After the battle a group of 8 soldiers are sent on an
important mission to rescue a private who's other brothers have been
killed recently. Now tom thanks is now established as one of the best
actors ever and it is films like this that is why. His performance as
the commander felt real it felt like he knew his duty but he was
relatable to us because of the way he acted in certain situations. This
man is a superstar and he truly encapsulates everything that this
commander has to go through. The supporting cast all also do a really
good job, this film is not a character study film but everything the
characters go through make you feel for them and empathise with the
characters. Now the story is where I actually think this film slightly
misses, I do believe it plays up the war part of the story well and
also the social issues that are explored should be applauded and are
very good. However, towards the middle of this film it just felt like
30-40 mins could have been cut out because nothing relevant to the
story happens and it could have been done in a better way. The script
is really good with the dialogue feeling natural among war buddies and
it also makes you feel like you are in battle with them. The style is
great I applaud Spielberg for making this film more realistic with the
brutality because that was how war really was. A lot of directors try
to pc it but not a top director and it adds to the realistic gritty
feeling that this film possesses. This is a heavy film and it can be
hard to watch sometimes but it is a fantastic film that truly delivers
on its message and does indeed deserve a lot of praise.

******
15 September 2014
9
Gripping, horrific first-person experiences in the thick of World War
II, as you're already, no doubt, keenly aware. It's held up
exceptionally well over time, most likely due to the great lengths
taken by Spielberg and company to stamp it down in a specific era and
remain steadfastly historical. The Normandy beach landing that opens
the action is still as powerful and haunting as ever, an effects
showcase like none other that puts us right down in the middle of hell
itself. I couldn't help but pontificate about the futility of ground
warfare here, faced with row after row of doe-eyed teenagers,
unceremoniously mowed down before taking so much as a single step on
enemy territory. Which is part of its message, no doubt - though that's
somewhat countered by the tales of bravado, camaraderie and character
that sprawl out over the next two hours. A richly rounded war story, it
enjoys a mess of acting performances even stronger than the work of the
effects team. Tom Hanks is at the top of the mountain as Captain
Miller, a demanding role that he owns from moment one. Supporting faces
pop out of the woodwork at every corner; most of us remember Vin Diesel
and Adam Goldberg in early roles, but quick shots from Paul Giamatti,
Ted Danson, Bryan Cranston and more left my jaw agape. How did I miss
spotting these guys the last time? A true epic, profound and moving,
with plenty of action but just as much character-building and adventure
also in the mix. One of Spielberg's - and Hanks's - best.

******
8 September 2014
10
This movie maybe is not in first ten or twenty movies on Top 250 list,
but it's worth to be watched like many best rated movies. It's just my
opinion... Great drama, very realistic war scenes, it is enough for me
to be one of my best watched movies ever! I watched this movie much
time ago, and I think that all time later there is no movie which leave
such strong impression on me like Saving Private Ryan. Movie won five
Oscars, absolutely justified, and #34 on Top 250 - all that is
sufficient recommendation to be watched. Tom Hanks play the role like
always - brilliant! Also, and complete film crew deserve all the
praise... World War 2 thematic with all these realistic photages
insight you in all misery and suffering of this war.

******
18 August 2014
10
Well, the movie starts with what was a part of Omaha Beach, called the
Normandy memorial now, filled with the graves of Allied soldiers who
fought and died in the Normandy invasion. He finds the gravestone,
along with his family, of soldier John Miller, and then recalls the
fateful day of the invasion in his mind. There are reminders of the cheesy movie known as "The Longest Day", as
the Omaha Beach invasion scene in "Private Ryan" takes full swing. Over
15 minutes of terror, fright, and blood-letting as heavy German
resistance with mortars and endless sprays of machine-gun fire rained
death on the Allied soldiers who landed on the beach with their landing
craft. The Allies get stopped by the heavy and deadly resistance but finds
their way to get through the enemy in the beachhead with Bangalore
torpedoes, flamethrowers, and sniper rifles. When all was over, we see that Daniel Ryan fell dead on the beach, and
we get the first words on three Ryans who fell in World War II, but not
James Francis. We get word on the parachute mis-drops that were part of
the Normandy invasion which meant James Francis Ryan did not know that
all of his 3 relatives died in combat, so a rescue mission deep in the
German-held front lines of France is in store. We then get the first scenes of John Miller, who is picked to find a
small platoon for the mission. He finds soldiers, and then the mission
is on, right into the French countryside. First skirmish against the Germans is in a small French town in a heavy
rainstorm where one of the platoon soldiers, Mr. Caparza, finds a
French baby whom a French family wants to liberate. Caparza takes the
baby, but because he was mistaken as a Nazi soldier (he was really an
American soldier, but he was bald-headed), a French resistance
soldier-sniper takes Caparza down with one shot in the chest. The
platoon realize this and decided to find the sniper but have to leave
Caparza alone and tell him not to move or he would get shot again.
Fortunately, the sniper was taken out but Caparza eventually dies on
the ground.More small skirmishes against the Germans were in store upon finding
James Francis Ryan. In one lull in the fighting, they almost got the
soldier they wanted who was James Ryan but with a different middle name
(which was, regrettably, Patrick), so the search continues. Then, after a German prowler (a half-track) was destroyed in another
French open field as the search continued, the platoon finds another
platoon that destroyed the tank - it was the platoon with James Francis
Ryan. The platoon got their man. The final thing was for his survivors - the platoon itself and the
surviving Ryan, to fight against a small German army that almost
outnumbered them, in the town of Ramelle. The firefight had to be
creative because they used ammo that was just left - not too much.
James Ryan does survive and the firefight ends when the P-51 Mustangs
finished off the Germans, but John Miller gets shot and dies in the
combat.James Ryan survives, still looking at his fallen soldier on the
Normandy beach memorial, thinking about his duty for country that he
had done on this major turning point in World War II.

******
9 August 2014
10
Greetings from Lithuania.I can not really say anything about "Saving Private Ryan" (1998) that
was not said before countless of times. I'm just going to praise it one
more time. "Saving Private Ryan" is a masterpiece of movie-making, it's true.
Almost no other war film can't take you to the place like this picture
does. "Apocalypse Now" and "Saving Private Ryan" are the best war
movies ever. Very different, yet very similar on the note of anti-war
ideas. Now back to "Saving Private Ryan". The opening scene is ...
well, you all know, it's a jaw dropping experience, and i mean,
experience - for a 20 min you can partly feel what is war and how it
was to a soldiers on that day. This scene alone is a excruciating
masterpiece. The film settles then in to a journey through hell
picture, it still remains unforgettable. No matter how many times you
are watching "Saving Private Ryan", it grabs you from the opening scene
and does not let go this the very last image. As i don't think there
are people who never saw this film, i can just say, watch it again.
It'a a film to remember, and to learn. It'a a masterpiece on all
levels.

******
14 July 2014
10
This is my favorite war movie. I like it except the final battle. Our
troops totally got ripped to shreds. Cpl Upham, he is a coward. I know
he isn't used to this combat, but he is essential to all the other
troops. He is carrying the extra ammo. He was too scared to help that
private fight that enemy troop and was to scared to give the troops
more ammo to the MG. If I was him, I would've been scared too, but I
would've done it anyway for my brothers. Also, in the beginning, when
they opened the door to get off the landing craft, you are already
dead. I think that's crazy. Plus, when they confronted the real Private
Ryan, he refused to go home. Isn't that a rule in which if all your
brothers die, you are supposed to go home?

******
27 June 2014
10
Sacrifice is often challenging for men in dangerous positions. No eight
film characters besides the eight soldiers in Steven Spielberg's war
masterpiece 'Saving Private Ryan' have dedicated more sacrifice in the
history of film. WW II was a harsh war that caused many fatalities and
tragedies. Entire families like the Ryan boys were sent out to war. In
'Saving Private Ryan' we see four brothers loose 75% of their legacy,
leaving only Private James Ryan to live. When Captain Miller (Tom
Hanks) is sent out with seven other soldiers to rescue Private Ryan so
that the Ryan family would have one last child to hang on two. As the
eight men try and rescue Private Ryan somewhere in the battlefields of
Germany, they encounter extreme war situations causing fatalities and
conflict between the eight men. Many argue with each other, loose hope,
show strong emotions, and complain about how the eight of them have to
risk their lives for one man. However, some positivism is derived from
their mission. Many friendships are formed between soldiers as they
connect with each other and help each other through battle. Steven
Spielberg's directing is extremely superb and magnificence. He takes
you into the line of war liken no filmmaker, and has extremely intense
and realistic battle sequences to show how much sacrifice the brave men
of WW II gave in order to promote peace and liberty. The battle
sequences are perfectly made with amazing editing, sound, and effects
that are entertaining for the powerful soul purpose and to make the
story strong. Bravo to the actors Tom Hanks, Edward Burns, Matt Damon,
Jeremy Davis, and Tom Sizemore for giving powerful performances as
soldiers throughout the entire film, and never getting off guard in the
film. The main theme of 'Saving Private Ryan' is not only to give the
first hand experience of WW II battle brought to life, but to show a
story of sacrifice. The mission to save Private Ryan is a metaphor for
how soldiers throughout history give of themselves for others, and how
their sacrifice can never be thanked enough. This is the best war film
ever made!

******
12 June 2014
9
This movie was an immense gathering of suspenseful, action-based,
dramatized scenes. I saw this film when it came out but I was just a
kid. I saw it again and again for years to come only to like it more
every time. The rawness and originality in the art of the battle scenes
is just amazing; the gore, the sadness, the cinematography, it's all
there. I'm not even a big fan of Spielberg's work and aside from
Schindler's List, this is the only other film that I love by Spielberg.
I give it a 9 for its long driven awesome plot with WELL developed
characters(main, supportive, etc.) and gruesome battle scenes. The use
of foreign languages when needed was also there. An overall well
written work of art.

******
26 January 2014
9
I've never been in the military, let alone been in any type of real
combat situation. Despite this, I feel like I have a semi-realistic
idea of what it would be like; and that is absolutely horrible. I can't
see any good that a soldier can take away from combat and this film
does a remarkable job of depicting the ugly truths of this, in a way
that almost anyone over the age of 12 can appreciate. If you are
attempting to shield your child from the ugly truths of life on this
earth and specifically American history and war, then don't show them
this film. When watching this film, I can actually feel the pain of the
protagonist as he fights his way towards his objective. Obviously, this
pain is nowhere near the level of what the soldier whom this film was
based off of and all others directly involved actually felt, but I feel
it is as close as you can get without being involved. This film
incorporates fantastic writing, CGI, cinematography, set-building,
acting and basically every other level of production to create the most
realistic World War II Normandy depiction I have ever seen. The only
reason I would not rate this movie any higher is because that would
make it a 10 and I believe perfection is impossible in the art of film
production, but it's about as close as it gets without 3D or any other
realism enhancing technologies. Watch this film and gain a better
understanding of what many of America's young men were experiencing at
the time of the second world war and also how they were mentally and
physically effected from the horrific events which ensued.

******
22 December 2013
10
Is the mission worth the man? This question must be answered by Captain
John Miller, as he takes his fellow platoon of soldiers deep behind
German fortifications in occupied France. Following the infamous D-Day
invasion Captain Miller and his men must traverse the dangerous Nazi
infested countryside to find Private James Ryan, so that he may return
home among the chaos that is war.Not only one of the finest war movies ever crafted, but one of the
finest human dramas ever filmed. Through the backdrop of World War II,
Spielberg delivers us right into the action, suspense and heart felt
drama. Filmed in a guerrilla style like approach helps to enhance the
realism of this film. Perfectly acted by Hanks and company, one will
find themselves immersed and truly caring for these characters as the
film plays on. Said to have made veterans weep during its release and
during its intense first thirty mins, as its depiction of the events of
D-Day upon the beaches of Normandy to be the most realistic and finest
ever captured on film. The world of war torn Europe and the brave men
who fought there is brought to life with not only the masterful
direction of Spielberg, but with the haunting and heroic score by John
Williams. Hanks delivers one of his finest performances, and this movie
is one of the finest to ever have been made.

******
18 December 2013
8
Steven Spielberg's 1998 war film, Saving Private Ryan, is a monumental
picture. It portrays the rawest, most real-feeling, vision of war that
I have ever seen. Though the grave portrayals and subject matter
exclude Saving Private Ryan from being a traditionally entertaining
film, it is still very engaging. It falls prey to some issues
characteristic of war films and some issues characteristic of Spielberg
films, but those do not take away Saving Private Ryan's claim to
greatness that it rightfully deserves.There is not an ounce of blood nor spray of bullets from beginning to
end that doesn't feel real. Many highly violent films lose their impact
entirely when the special effects are less than convincing and when
character deaths feels too complicit to the story. Thankfully Saving
Private Ryan has incredible, mainly practical, special effects, and the
film is not afraid to kill even its most sympathetic characters in
addition to literally boat loads of extras. The opening flashback to
Omaha Beach is an incredible feat in cinema and likely the best
subjective view of warfare caught on film. When the doors of the boats
open and German machine guns mow down the U.S. soldiers without a
moment's hesitation, it is truly shocking. For one shot the camera is
in the position of a soldier near the back of a boat, his comrades in
front of him. The doors open and all the soldiers in frame are ripped
of their lives by an unstoppable hail of bullets. The fact that I would
be dead if were there is effectively disturbing. Some other shots take
place underwater. Down there the screams of the dying, pounding of
artillery, and incessant chatter of machine guns are muffled. For a
second I felt calm and safe, before a couple bullets penetrated the
water and the soldiers beneath it, calming their struggle and causing
plumes of blood to rise to the surface. The scene continues in this
fashion for an extended time as it follows a group of soldiers fighting
their way up the beach, eventually to victory for that specific
skirmish. The Omaha Beach scene sets the mood for the rest of the film,
and the final battle of the bridge matches it, providing a nice bookend
for the rest of the story to play out between. Some death scenes are
truly disturbing. They force you to look at your own mortality right in
the face. I should mention that the direction is superb. The audience
is able to achieve a new perspective on war from Spielberg's
outstanding ability to link action and build a sense of omniscience
coupled with harsh subjectivity. I didn't detect a false move in the
entire film. While the film is a true achievement, its reliance on
shock causes its impact to decrease with subsequent viewings (I've seen
it thrice), but I still recognize it as a great film. One thing that
detracted from Saving Private Ryan, conflicting with the realism, was
its sentimentality, driven by John Williams' seemingly ubiquitous
score. The sentimentality felt out of place and left a bad taste in my
mouth. I could almost call the film cloying at times. Thankfully,
during the parts that really matter there is no music and no forced
emotion, only what happens right before your eyes which is enough to
change you by itself.War films tend to be very pure. Many times they are almost exclusively
about survival, an objective, and the non-romantic relationships
between the soldiers. Saving Private Ryan fits into this category. For
me this excludes a certain aspect of cinema that I crave. It excludes a
sense of culture, artistry, and beauty. The film is too raw for my
liking. Whenever the characters come to a new town they find it in a
state of wreckage. The once beautiful architecture is reduced to rubble
and potential strategic positions. Of course Saving Private Ryan relies
a great deal on realism and the decision to maintain its purity as a
war film certainly contributes to its realism. Nevertheless my
complaint stands.For what is essentially an existential film, Saving Private Ryan
manages to the fill its running time with engaging scenes, one after
another. There are many incidental, almost arbitrary, occurrences. The
taking of the French girl, the knocking down of a wall to reveal a
platoon of enemy soldiers. The list goes on. Yes these scenes are
sufficiently engaging even if each one does not contribute to a central
story thrust. More than that they add to the sense of mayhem and
disarray that surely accompanies soldiers embroiled in such a conflict.
Whereas I might be tempted to label this style as fluff or meaningless
in other films, the existential mode fits Saving Private Ryan very
well.Saving Private Ryan is a great film. It is an achievement in cinema and
also fascinating to watch. While a few issues prevent me from calling
it a masterpiece I can confidently say that I will watch it again
someday.33/40

******
8 December 2013
10
This is one of my favorite movies of all time. Saving Private Ryan is
about a captain in the US army during World War II, who must risk him
and his men's lives to rescue a soldier who has lost his three
brothers. Growing up I was so fascinated with WW2. I read about all
aspects of it, so I had a pretty good idea of the horrors of combat.
But I got a very clear look at war with this movie. The 20 minute opening of US soldiers storming the beaches of Normandy,
is outstanding. Steven Spielberg captures every bit of gore and and
violence, with young boys crying for there mother, soldiers losing
their limbs, men having to muster every ounce of courage to survive the
hell that is war. With amazing cinematography and sound that puts the
audience right in the battlefield, we are shown how war can make even
the manliest man weep like a child and what each soldier believes in
and what they fight for. For me there are a few scenes that make the movie great. Obliviously
the beach scene is one of them. After Wade dies from the machine gun
nest, there is one German soldier who survives, and the men let out
there hate and rage on him. Forgetting what is the right thing to do,
the men have been so damaged by combat they then fight with one another
whether letting the German go or not. The other scene is in the last battle, Upham is responsible for
bringing ammo to Mellish, but Upham is so frozen with fear. And when
Mellish is fighting hand to hand with a German, Upham is outside and
able to save Mellish, but stays on the staircase crying, and when
Mellish is dead, the German wouldn't even kill Upham. This movie does a
flawless in showing the terrible effects war has on humans. This movie
is so realistic, that when it was released in theaters, the army had to
create a hotline for war veterans with post traumatic stress
disorder.......convinced?10/10

******
3 December 2013
8
*Note: this review is a mash-up several reviews written by students in
an English class at Lycée Henri Cornat in France.During the Second World War, the Ryan family loses three sons and one
is missing. Three of them died in the fighting. One of them is missing
in the Cotentin: his name is James Ryan. Their mother receives a
telegram telling her about the death of her sons. Captain Miller's
mission is to find Private Ryan. This absence of action gives me a
patriotic impression, which may be a little bit ridiculous, especially
when the camera is focused on Tom Hank 's eyes (an excellent actor to
me because of his great career). The trailer depicts the soldiers as
courageous and brave heroes: it remind of famous French saying « un
pour tous et tous pour un » that is to say soldiers are very united.One of points I appreciate is that the trailer doesn't show any frames
of the film at the beginning but only archived to the WW2. I think it's
a good thing because the trailer doesn't spoil the film. But at the
same time after seeing the trailer I don't really know if it was
focused on the action or on the military brotherhood. Here, the soldiers are shown as brave, courageous and self-sacrificing.
They are depicted as heroes. We find brotherhood, loyalty, and
friendship. They are portrayed as heroes because, we can see and
suppose that they 'fight' with the suffering. In the end of the
trailer, we see a dark landscape with a hill and only a man who is a
soldier because he has a gun. There are clouds, and the sky is dark. In
the closing image, we can see clouds: it may be to show all the
soldiers who had lost their lives, and it reminds us that death is all
around.This amazing representation of WW2 stresses the emotional dimension of
war. If you want to see a movie about war only, don't watch this film
because the most important in the story is the mission of some soldiers
and not the fight against Nazi Germany. Overall, we can say that this
trailer makes people want to see this original film about the war. It's
not a shocking trailer, and mainly the touching side is shown. A war
film for girls?!

******
15 November 2013
10
If this isn't the greatest WWII movie then it's close. I would say it
is definitely the greatest except "Platoon" is such a close contender
for me.The action is gut-wrenching real and the scene of the storming of Omaha
Beach is truly a frightening spectacle. If Spielberg was out to
eradicate romantic notions anyone might hold about war he succeededThe decision to rescue Ryan is, in my mind, a poor one but something
similar actually did happen and Ryan looking for the grave of his
beloved captain who saved his soul could have been mawkish but while a
little too sentimental it did work for me.The entire movie was a corroboration of Sherman's comment that "War is
Hell". Just to make sure his point is driven home one of the ironies
Spielberg embedded in the movie is every act of mercy would have lethal
consequences for the soldier who showed compassion.

******
7 November 2013
10
Spielberg during his career has always shown a certain interest for the
World War II, in movies like "1941", "Empire of the Sun", "Schindler's
List" and of course "Raiders of the Lost Ark" and "The Last Crusade"
that was perfect clear. He affirmed that in a interview that he
considers the WWII one of the most significant events of the last
hundred years, and always sought to portray it somehow. It took the
screenwriter Robert Rodat and Tom Hanks to show to Spielberg a story
almost like "Apocalypse Now", inspired by an event of the civil war,
taking place during the Second World War, to the master retract the war
in the best way (possibly) ever made."Saving Private Ryan" is takes place soon after the invasion of the
Normandy at Omaha Beach on June 6, 1944. With Captain John Miller (Tom
Hanks) getting a mission, coming from the General George C. Marshall
itself, to rescue a paratrooper private James Ryan (Matt Damon) who
lost three brothers in combat, two on D-Day and one in New Guinea. Now
the Captain along with 7 of his best men have to travel in the middle
of the war in France and cross enemy lines to save the life of a man
who doesn't even know. But the dangers and sacrifices will bring
challenges and moral dilemmas to the soldiers and their mission.When I said that Spielberg retracted the WWII in the best way ever made
I wasn't bluffing. Of course he showed the consequences of the
Holocaust in a terrifying and brilliantly in his masterpiece
"Schindler's List". But here, Spielberg completely redefines the genre
of war films forever. What was always shown (except for "Apocalypse
Now") always with a romantic and patriotic story, Spielberg manages to
show its brutality.Many today consider this film the best war movie ever made, and others
think "Apocalypse Now" already occupies this place. Both films follow
different paths and tones, but tell a story very similar with almost
the same dilemma: "The sacrifice of many lives by one live". But
Coppola's "Apocalypse Now" went much further than that, exploring the
psychological and disturbing side of the Vietnam War including its
origins without ever taking a patriotic side as Spielberg does here
momentarily. So "Apocalypse" is by a far superior film.What Spielberg and screenwriter Robert Rodat do is follow a simpler
path but still excellent. Showing for several moments in the film
dilemmas about saving a man in the middle of hell. And that leads to
relationship of the soldiers, that early in the film was a brotherhood
of partnership, begins to fade with the sacrifices being made by a
soldier who they never saw or met and it is probably dead. But there is
where one of the few of the problems in the film appear, some of the
characters deserved a better development but anything ruins our
feelings at the end of the film.Well, so far I've only been talking about moral dilemmas and
comparisons. Now let's cut to the part where Spielberg revolutionizes
everything, in his direction. Coppola gave in "Apocalypse" the classic
"nalpam" bombing of the village, followed with marines stealing
surfboards and surfing. Spielberg gave the best battles and shootings
ever made and put in a war movie. Literally putting us in the middle of
the flying bullets and explosions hurting our ears. And for the people
that still criticize Spielberg for making children's and cheesy films,
get ready to see bodies being mutilated and blood splash on your face.
Showing the terrible reality and brutality of war, the real hell.In the performances level, the film doesn't disappoint at all. Each of
the 8 (9 if you count Ryan at the end of the movie, oh, spoiler). Since
Barry Pepper as the best sniper in a movie since Robert De Niro; Tom
Sizemone as the best partner to have in a battlefield, and Tom Hanks as
Tom Hanks is, simply brilliant.While not be the best war movie ever made (thanks to Coppola), "Saving
Private Ryan" is a essential viewing film. Spielberg through another
magnificent direction shows the cruel reality and brutality of war,
coated with bright dilemmas thanks to Rodat's script, presented with
yet another brilliant performance by Tom Hanks. "Saving Private Ryan"
is not perfect or the best war movie ever made, but it is sure a
timeless war and movie classic.10/10

******
14 October 2013
8
Steven Spielberg's World War II drama, Saving Private Ryan is more of a
drama than a war film. The war in Saving Private Ryan is the stage,
setting up a playground for a number of individuals caught in a
singular situation, forced to make singular choices. As a character
quotes in the film, "War educates the senses, calls into the action the
will, perfects the physical constitution, brings men into such swift
and close collision in critical moments that man measures man." Saving
Private Ryan is about all that. It explodes into life with an assault
on the senses, will (or the lack of it) drives characters and the story
along with them and collisions are aplenty. The strength of Saving
Private Ryan lies in its characters, who are more than mere foot
soldiers in this theatre of war. The film starts off with the landing
of an US battalion at Normandy . Soon, the storyline swings to an
unpredictable path and the viewer is engaged in the thoughts and
actions of a group of men whose paths, both literally and figuratively,
are laden with uncertainty.However, the reason that Saving Private Ryan is a remarkable chapter in
cinema history is not just its storyline, characters and their acts,
but the theatre of their play itself. Spielberg brings out the ferocity
of war to tremendous effect. The viewer is bombarded with gruesome
sights and shell-shocking sounds. The violence is captured with immense
skill, but true to what is perhaps one of the themes of the film as
well as its maker, is never glorified or even rendered aesthetic.As for the performances, nearly the entire cast is terrific, rendering
the movie's exceptional circumstances a credibility which wraps the
viewer in its web.The setting of WW II has deeply influenced cinema and directors from
lands far and wide. In the gallery of those films, there are quite a
few masterpieces, most of which are united by the fact that they are
more than mere war films or war stories, binding in tales of the human
spirit. Saving Private Ryan, effortlessly, belongs to that top drawer.

******
18 September 2013
8
Steven Spielberg once again won a best directing Academy Award for this
powerful film(based on fact) that opens with the D-Day invasion on
Normandy France, and the battle to secure the beaches as the first step
toward liberating France. The battle itself is the most realistic
portrayal of actual battle conditions ever put to film, so authentic is
the chaos, violence, and impact bullets and explosions would really
have on limbs and bodies(no sugar-coating or censoring here!) that it
is both fascinating yet disturbing as well. Tom Hanks plays Capt.
Miller, who is in charge of the platoon, and once the beaches are
secured, he is ordered to locate and return home a Private Ryan(Matt
Damon) because he has just lost three brothers in battle, and the Army
doesn't want the bad publicity of a grieving mother mourning all four
sons. Though he and his platoon are astonished by the order, they obey
it, and the rest of the film is their journey to find Ryan, and still
fight the war.The first section of the film on the beaches is so powerful and
realistic, that the search for Ryan almost feels anti-climatic, yet
this film still works because of the realism and superb storytelling
involved, though the prologue and epilogue lack the dramatic fireworks
they were aiming for, they are still moving enough.

******
6 September 2013
9
Saving Private Ryan is a 1998 American epic war film set during the
invasion of Normandy in World War II. It was directed by Steven
Spielberg and written by Robert Rodat. The film is notable for its
graphic and realistic portrayal of war, and for the intensity of its
opening 27 minutes, which depict the Omaha Beach assault of June 6,
1944. The film follows United States Army Rangers Captain John H.
Miller (Tom Hanks) and a squad (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry
Pepper, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Adam Goldberg and Jeremy Davies)
as they search for a paratrooper, Private First Class James Francis
Ryan (Matt Damon), who is the last-surviving brother of four
servicemen.

******
4 September 2013
8
To everyone else, Saving Private Ryan would be a career defining film,
both a critical success and a box office smash, but for Steven, it's
nothing more than another stone in the pillar of greatness that is
Spielberg, - just when you thought he had laid out all his cards on the
table, he finds a way of surprising us again and again, as with each
passing of a decade, he is constantly reinventing himself. With the
like of; E.T, Schindler's list, Jaws and close encounters of the third
kind, he has successfully cemented himself as the greatest living
directors in the world. And Saving Private Ryan is testimony to that, a
truly gripping and harrowing war film, unparallelled in the last 20
years. Blending breathtakingly stunning cinematography, skilled and
controlled camera movements and sublime storytelling that is now
regarded as a staple of all Spielberg films. But not too forget the
help he received from an almighty performance by Tom Hanks, star of
such films as; Toy story (1,2 and 3), Forrest Gump and most recently
Cloud Atlas. From the gecko, we see instantly know why Spielberg won an Oscar for
best director, as near the beginning of the film when the troops land
on Omaha Beach on D-day in the midst of a horrific and bloody tug of
war with the Germans - In a scene lasting for a staggering 24 minutes,
but I would have gladly sat for another 20 on top, due to the share
epic that it was. From the start of the scene, the camera work is
somewhat very unstable, Spielberg's use of hand-held camera movement
during the scene, helps add the effect of confusion and a rush
adrenalin, so from the very start we are almost swept into the scene
and immersed into the carnage. The instability of the camera movements
perfectly reflects the total and utter chaos that the soldiers
experienced. And I love this, because it showing us rather than telling
us through 10 minutes of the soldiers talking about how bad the war is,
making it far more captivating  a smart move from Steven. It is also
interesting to note that the opening sequence is filmed in de-
saturated colours, emphasising the negativity of the situation, making
it seem more morose. This visual pathetic fallacy continues with the
dark, stormy weather, making the death seem all the more cold and
devoid of emotion. I could easily just review the opening sequence,
because it was just that good! It should be taught at film school as a
manual on great cinematography. Eventually amongst all the anarchy we discover the dead body of soldier
with Ryan written on his backpack. Then fast forward a few days later,
Army Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Marshall (Harve Presnell) reveals to
Capt. John Miller (Tom Hanks), that all three Ryan brothers from the
same family have been killed, and he tells John to find the fourth Pvt.
James Ryan (Matt Damon), so his mother can have at least one son alive,
so she doesn't have to go through that pain of knowing all her sons are
dead. John Miller then brings together a troop of trusty soldiers to
aid him in this quest. Consisting of; Cpl. Upham (Jeremy Davis), Sgt.
Horvath (Tom Sizemore), plus privates Mellish (Adam Goldberg), Medic
Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), cynical Reiben (Edward Burns) from Brooklyn,
Italian-American Caparzo (Vin Diesel), and religious Southerner Jackson
(Barry Pepper). What follow is a heart wrenching journey for both us
and the men, as Spielberg cleverly draws out of us all, the colours of
the emotional wheel as we've; Laughed with them, felt regret as some of
them die on their journey, we have been scared as the ever looming
Germans approach, we felt anger, frustration and the occasional
breathtaking triumph. But what the performance I love the most out of that list of talented
actors a superb performance is was performance of Tom hanks, outside
the storytelling and the cinematography, it truly stood out for me,
from the first time he pops up in screen, during the being on Omaha
Beach, When we move on to one landing craft in particular, through a
series of close ups we see the share terror in the eyes of some of the
soldiers, then we shift to a close up of Tom Hank's hands shaking, and
from that moment you could tell this was going to be a stellar
performance from Tom, and he certainly didn't disappoint. Because he
was just playing the character, he was living the character. As he's
attention to detail throughout the rest of the film, helps us believe
that is a hero who plays a good front for his soldiers, but is as
sacred, and consumed with a feeling of trepidation and fear, just like
the rest of them. To conclude, cinematography, Spielberg's geniuses and Tom hanks
performance, are the most vital areas that needs to be covered when
reviewing a spectacular film such as Saving Private Ryan, but most
Spielberg, because without his brilliance and nonchalant camera angles,
Saving Private Ryan may not have ever won 5 academy awards, or never
would have become a modern classic, as it unfortunately came after the
superb likes of; The Deer Hunter, Platoon, Full metal Jacket and
Apocalypse Now, so the academy could have thought there wasn't another
worthy story to come out of a War film due to the amazing stated, but
Steven breaths ingenuity and intelligent filmmaking, to add new life to
the war epic, standing up tall next to the greats of the war genre.

******
21 August 2013
10
This is my favorite movie. Words cannot describe how good this movie
is. The opening scene is so well done, everything is so perfect.
Everything from the sound effects of the machine guns, to the camera
shaking around like you're actually there with them. All the
performances are superb, but tom hanks really stands out. His speech
convincing Reiben to stay is phenomenal. Barry Pepper is incredible as
The sniper Private Jackson. Even Jeremy Davies as Cpl. Uppahm is good,
even though i hated Cpl. Uppahm. Steven Spielberg does a great job
directing, and has crafted another masterpiece. The ending scene is
packed with emotion, and This is easily the best movie I've seen.

******
18 August 2013
10
This movie is excellent. Historically accurate, great cast. I
specifically started an account on IMDb so I could write a review on
this movie. The only bit that made me cry was at the end when Miller
whispers to Ryan those words. Great film, would recommend it to anyone.*Spoiler Alert* The film is very strong emotionally in the death
scenes, especially at the end where Miller dies and I cried a lot! It
is very gory in many parts, especially the beach scene, and the bridge
fight which is very intense and results in 3 main characters dying
unfortunately.This is hand down my favorite movie of all time and would recommend it
to anyone interested in those sorts of films.

******
24 July 2013
10
Saving Private Ryan is considered by many the best war movie ever made
and I admit that is true. This movie is an absolutely breathtaking and
affect all the people that see this film, it affected me so much. This
movie grab your neck and doesn't let you go and makes you to stay in
your seat. You feel the pain of John Miller and his men. Spielberg did
an unbelievable job of putting realism into this movie with the
camera-work and everything else. Everything is great about this movie,
great actors, great battle sequences and a good ending. Simply awesome.
An all time classic movie. I think the main purpose of the film is to
honor those who fought and died in the struggle against the Nazis in
WW2.

******
19 July 2013
9
Saving Private Ryan is about a band of brothers who give up their own
lives to save the life of a single soldier in the chaos of war. The
Controlling Idea, that brotherhood is worth dying for, is well told and
thematically supported. The contradictory notion of risking the lives
of many to save the few resonates well with the idea of war in general:
that the values of freedom, family and human rights are ideals worth
dying for: even if these values are preserved only for a few survivors.
The hope is the survivors (and the viewers) can go on to live a good
life and treasure their freedoms that others died to protect. The
question is that in a democracy where human rights and freedoms are
valued, why would anyone in their right mind choose to sacrifice their
life and limb? The answer: these soldiers choose to do it to protect a
brother, and these armies choose to do it to protect the basic human
rights of the citizens of fellow nations. This seems to suggest that
the very fabric of democratic society rests on the fundamental respect
for each other and the rights of others and that these rights and
freedoms are ideals that much be protected to the death.Great film told with what I count to be three major external plots: to
save Ryan, to win the war and to save the lives of the men. The lives
of the men are lost to achieve the first two. Thus proving the
Controlling Idea that brotherhood is worth dying for.My major complaint is the film is too long. Three hours is a long time
and the episodes of peace are not so interesting since not much
relationship or personal development takes place. The brothers are
"good" from beginning to end and their relationships are "good" from
beginning to end. Of course there are minor plot lines like Opum's
compassion for POWs and Reiben's questioning of Miller's judgement. But
they don't create serious turning points in an otherwise
external-action focused story. I think the story would look
substantially the same if you cut out the middle: the Carparso dying to
save a French child, the radar assault that loses Wade and the church
resting.My Story Chart of the movie is at storycharts.ca

******
27 June 2013
10
If you are watching out for action and suspense the "Saving Private
Ryan" is a perfect movie for you.Some of the scenes were so emotional
that I found it hard to hold my tears. It's a movie worth watching.The
most interesting scene was when captain MIller was shooting at the tank
with his revolver and at that moment aeroplane bombarded on the tank
and the tank exploded and captain Miller looked at his gun if there was
some miracle happening. But then he looked at sky and there was
pleasure on his face.It had a sense of humour in it at the crucial
point of the movie.But the thing about movie is that you watch it and
find it out that you liked it. "Saving Private Ryan" is that kind of
movie which you just watch and find out you have liked it.So have added
it to your watch list?

******
6 June 2013
10
Saving Private Ryan is the best Second World War movie ever made.The good. Almost everything could be listed here as exceptional, but
I'll just mention what really makes this a master piece. First and
foremost, the fighting and how it's depicted. You feel the same stress,
terror, and confusion as the soldiers. There are some heroics, but it's
normal man heroics. Men die by the score, there's no favorites. It's
dirty, it's loud, it's dangerous, it's inhumane. Beyond that, you've
got an incredibly compelling story, amazing photography, a rich
scenario, very attaching and real characters, as well as interesting
thoughtful dialogs.The actors. There are so many excellent ones, and a number that were on
the cusp of their stardom. Tom Hanks is of course in one of his best
incarnation ever. Tom Sizemore is the perfect solid loyal sergent. Paul
Giamatti has a small role, but without contest one of his best by
playing his normal edgy style in a war context with a thin veneer of
authority and calm. Edward Burns is just right as the loud mouth New
Yorker. And you cheer Barry Pepper as the God blessed sniper. Now for a
few surprises. Giovanni Ribisi, playing a bit far from his usual role,
is excellent as the overwhelmed caring medic. Dennis Farina, which I
normally do not like, is a stoic senior officer with an calm aura. You
can also see a young Nathan Fillion in a quick cameo. Here, one might
argue whether Matt Damon was given a large role or not, but he did
carry it out well, if a bit subpar for him. However, the truly big
surprise is the appearance of Vin Diesel playing something completely
out of his usual affectations with credible results.The bad. It's a near perfect film, but there's one thing that irked me.
The family of the veteran was either badly chosen of badly directed.
When he starts to cry they all act as if it was a big surprise. Really?
What did you think he was going to do?The ugly. Nothing.The result. Be ready for some tough bloody scenes, and you'll love this
realistic representation of war.

******
23 April 2013
10
Spielberg directs a rapturous, deep, heavy hitting film that captures
the violence, brotherhood, intensity and grip of World War II. It's an
emotionally rewarding film that I took way to long to see. It is a must
see film that features a brilliant and well acted cast, incredibly well
orchestrated battle scenes that Sun Tzu could only dream of, and an
ending that ties the whole of the work up perfectly. It's raw, it's
real, and it's powerful. It's an emotionally rewarding film that I took
way to long to see. And it makes you proud of the people that
sacrificed their lives to protect all that we hold dear today. 5/5 Stars

******
11 April 2013
10
'SAVING PRIVATE RYAN': Five Stars (Out of Five)Steven Spielberg's epic World War II film (from 1998) earned him his
second Academy Award for Best Director although it failed to win best
picture (being robbed by 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE') in one of the biggest
upsets in Oscar history and certainly my lifetime (next to maybe
'CRASH' beating out 'BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN' in 2006). It's still
considered one of the greatest and most realistic war films ever made
though, being praised most of all for it's opening 27 minute 'Normandy
Landings' scene (which was named "best battle scene of all time" by
Empire magazine). It's one of my favorite war and Spielberg movies ever
and probably my favorite film of 1998!The film was written by Robert Rodat and inspired by a monument,
memorializing soldiers killed in battle from the Civil War to Vietnam,
which lists eight siblings killed in the American Civil War. 'SAVING
PRIVATE RYAN' revolves around a soldier, Private James Ryan (Matt
Damon), who's three brothers are all killed in World War II. In order
to relieve distress to his mother Army Chief of Staff, George C.
Marshall (Harve Presnell), orders eight soldiers to find Ryan and bring
him home to safety. They're lead by Captain Miller (Tom Hanks), who
just survived the Normandy Landings. Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns,
Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Adam Goldberg, Barry Pepper and Vin
Diesel play the other seven soldiers. The film was criticized by some, including filmmaker Oliver Stone, who
felt movies like it helped influence the Iraq War (due to World War II
being portrayed as 'the good war'). I don't really agree with that
assessment but I can see their point. The movie is a masterpiece in my
opinion and I think everyone should see it as a tribute to all the
soldiers who've died in war. The first time I saw it in the theater was
one of the most memorable film going experiences of my life. Who could
ever forget those opening 27 minutes (it portrays one of the most
nightmarish images ever caught on film)! I think this movie is
Spielberg at his very best (in my opinion it's a greater achievement
than 'SCHINDLER'S LIST' even). To say I like it more than his more fun
movies like 'JAWS', 'E.T.' or the 'INDIANA JONES' series would probably
be a lie but it is a more important film and one of the very best of
1998 (definitely better than 'SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE').Watch our movie review show 'MOVIE TALK' at:
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ne8a_WCFo3A

******
4 March 2013
10
This is the greatest movie I have ever seen. Knowing that I have seen
Schindlers List and Citizen Kane, that is a bold statement. But, this
movie is filled with complex statements about men at war. It goes
beyond an antiwar film. War isn't just hell in this movie. It isn't
just brutality and violence. It is about the toll on the soul, the
burying of identity and the hope that it will be for a reason. It is
about the bartering of war. One man you knew for twenty people you will
never see. More over, at its core, this isn't even an antiwar film
because the film is searching for something that will justify the
bloodshed, justify the absurdity of these soldiers situation. War is
hell unless something good comes from it. The acting is on point and
many of the characters serve a distinct purpose in the screenplay,
which is extremely well written. There are symbols that register
without thought and the speeches delivered serve to add to the
absurdity surrounding the soldiers. I doubt any filmmaker will come
close to the achievement that this film is. Watch this today!

******
11 February 2013
9
Considered by many as the best war movie ever made and considered by
most as one of Spielberg's many unforgettable classics, 'Saving Private
Ryan' in its 150 minute run time tells the story of a group of soldiers
who have been sent by the American government to find and recover a
lone soldier after his brothers were wiped out in war.Being released in the year of 1998, when movies like American History X
and Shakespeare in Love came out, it is an absolute "spit on the grave"
insult that this movie did NOT win the Best Picture award, instead
being handed to movies of lesser kind such as 'Shakespeare in Love'
However, that being said, there is so much I simply love about the
movie. The acting is great with Tom Hanks pulling off another blinder
of a performance! The rest of the cast all do a great job. The writing
is great, often being witty and clever and Spielberg's direction is
almost perfect! What do I mean "almost" perfect? This scene is everyone's favorite scene when dealing with the movie and
is regardedas a great scene but this is one scene that I do NOT hate but do NOT
enjoy much either. That is the Omaha Beach scene that drags on for 20
minutes. 20 minutes of depicting what war feels like. I can understand
it being 10 minutes, that would be a blast of a start but the scene
really pulled me out of the movie early on but thankfully recovered
after the quest had begun with such amazing scenery, brilliant
cinematography and superb special effects along with some great action
scenes and very emotional scenes as the movie progressed. Another thing
that adds to the greatness of the movie is definitely the characters as
all soldiers who were focused on in the movie were very interesting,
especially Capt. Miller. Another part I enjoyed was the ending scene,
though it may feel a bit cheesy and corny, I found it reasonably
emotional and the scene does make you feel its worth sitting through a
170 minute movie.I can say in conclusion that this is a movie that I would easily
recommend to anyone. There is no doubt in my mind that this is a
classic and that it will live forever. The reason I had to drop one
point off my rating is simply the 20 minute beach scene at the start of
the movie which dragged on and threw me out of the movie, but I can
easily tell that everyone else will love that scene. So, go
ahead...Watch the movie! Great film, a classic and perhaps the best war
movie ever.

******
24 December 2012
10
... more of its kind.To all the international reviewers complaining that only Americans were
shown in the movie: only the most uneducated Americans truly think no
other country had a hand in toppling Hitler. The movie is Amerocentric,
to be sure, but it's not about America. Personally, I would also like
to see Spielberg's treatment of the RAF in the Battle of Britain as
well. HOPEFULLY, a quality British director will take up that cause if
Spielberg doesn't. It's not that we don't know that Europeans and
especially Russians weren't essential in winning the war, it's that
THIS movie is following a group of Americans. Don't like that? Make
your own. I'd pay to see it. :)

******
20 December 2012
8
This is my second favorite World War II movie after Schindler's List,
which was also made by Steven Spielberg. Saving Private Ryan is
captivating and also shows the whole events that war carries, the movie
is well acclaimed for its graphic realistic depiction of World War II;
since I wasn't there during it, if this is what war looks like, I pray
to God that there is no World War III.The movie is about a United States Army Rangers Captain John H. Miller
(Tom Hanks) and seven other soldiers under him as they search for a
paratrooper, Private First Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), who
is the last-surviving brother of four servicemen and has been ordered
by the President to be brought home as his family fears losing all five
sons to the war.There is just one thing about this movie that cut my attention, after
Hanks character Captain John H. Miller, drags he crew through the war
losing many on their way in crude ways all in the name of finding
Private Ryan, they finally found him and Ryan refuses to go back with
them, claiming he doesn't need saving. Miller and the remaining of his
crew then joins Ryan's course. If I was Miller I would have knocked him
(Ryan) up the head and drag him home.Saving Private Ryan is a War Epic film, done by Steven Spielberg, who
has been involved in some World War II films before this, like Empire
of the Sun and Schindler's List. To prep the guys for the film the cast
except from Matt Damon were sent to a ten days "boot camp" for training
and work on the film set to prepare them for their roles. The reason
Damon was excluded was for the other cast to develop a form of
resentment towards him, which will help in their reaction to him during
filming.Critically noted for its portrayal of World War II, this film was
released to a high positive acceptance and earned a whooping 11
nominations in the Academy Awards, going home with just 5, including
winning Spielberg his second Academy Award as a director. The movies
cinematography too has to be praised the movie shots during the world
War II fight on Omaha beach is a classic to see, that scene has been
noted as one of the greatest TV scenes of all time.Saving Private Ryan was also a commercial success, making more than 6
times its 70 million production cost and its home video sale was
massive.This is a movie that I can bet my name on that you will enjoy, the
depiction of the war sequence the sad end to lives during the war, the
repercussion of cowardly behavior all added to the drama and the fun
you will get while watching this war classic.www.lagsreviews.com

******
20 September 2012
10
This is simply the best war movie, bar none, so far anyway. This movie
set a new standard for the film industry when it comes to recreating
combat scenerios. The D-Day scene is the most brutal, realistic
depiction of war ever produced. When you go to a movie (war movie or
any movie) the filmmakers try to give you the sense of watching that
scene play out in real time in front of your eyes, In this one though,
Spielberg grabs you by the shirt, pulls you in, and makes you be a
witness to the scene as it plays out.Everything about this movie was outstanding. The Cast was perfect and
gave performances of a lifetime. The Effects were second to none. The
photograph was mind bending. There was not a detail left unattended to.
Simply perfect. This is what all movies should strive to be!

******
5 July 2012
8
Before there are any misconceptions, I do like this movie. I find it
one of Spielberg's best, one of the unforgettable period films of the
90s. With the likes of Tom Hanks, Barry Pepper, Tom Sizemore, Edward
Burns and a surprisingly good performance from Vin Diesel (can't
believe I said that), the acting is pretty damn good. It's recreation
of D-Day is probably its strongest scene by far, setting the tone
perfectly: sacrifice. The many battle scenes are done without a hitch
and there are great strides in the history of war film effects. John
William's music is encompassing and well done, not one of his best but
still very good.I have but a few problems with the movie. One, its moral quandary is
supposedly the sacrifice of many for one. However, the question
honestly seems self-defeating. Why, you probably ask. Because the movie
seems to seal this moral lesson in quite frankly one of the most
obnoxious characters ever: Upham, played by Jeremy Davies . I'm not
sure what the point of his character was. For some time he's a morality
tale lifeboat who boast about the indecency of killing soldiers who
surrender, fine and dandy, living up to the codes of conduct and what
not. However, during the big finale, this character proves to be little
more than a coward who's failure to act cost the lives of many. And I
know, I know, it in a way simply portrays tragic irony and the
confusion battle brings. But the end result, with Upham finally doing
what he should've done in the first place seems, dare I say, pointless.
After the whole movie seemingly supporting mercy, what was with the
sudden redundancy of the message? It seemed the majority of the
characters died for reason not even our film makers understood or mixed
up.I've been told this is what you call a 'pro-war' movie, and to an
extent it is. All in all, despite its mixed up morality, the film is
still one I enjoy though.

******
4 June 2012
10
I recently wrote a review on The Thin Red Line, Terrence Malick's war
epic that was badly timed and unfortunately forgotten. In that review,
I mention how it was released around the time of Saving Private Ryan,
the "best war film known to man". So, I stand by that.Saving Private Ryan is the story of a group of soldiers, led by a
captain played by Tom Hanks, one of his best performances, who are sent
on a mission during WWII to bring home Captain James Ryan(Matt Damon),
a soldier who is unaware that his three brothers have died in combat.The film has such a great story, and it really brings us into the
action and into the character's states of mind. Yet, it is three hours
long. But for me that three hours just flew by. Steven Spielberg went
home with an Oscar for this film, but the film lost the best picture
award to Shakespeare in Love, a wonderful film that isn't as good, to
be honest.The cinematography is marvelous, and the action sequences are riveting.
The acting is something that I cannot leave out either. Saving Private
Ryan is a captivating and sad film experience that really makes you
feel for the characters, and makes you feel a longing to be home.Spielberg's film is spectacular, remarkable, and definitively
unforgettable. A filmmaking spectacle on the grand scale. This is one
of his best works, probably on his top five. You definitely have to see
this at some point or another.A+

******
21 January 2012
10
Out of all the nominations for Best Picture in 1998 at the Academy
Awards I'm still baffled how this one isn't the movie to take home the
statue. Instead you have some lame Shakespeare in Love get that honor
that no one in this century even remembers. You don't see SiL getting
re-played on cable all the time like SPR does. You don't have a great
half hour opening scene like in SPR with the Normandy scene which is
one of the best scenes in motion picture history.Spielberg and Hanks with this and then followed up with the miniseries
Band of Brothers and The Pacific basically reinvented what a depiction
of war should look like on film.

******
9 January 2012
10
Spielberg's 1998 war movie about the story of a group of men setting
out to find the last surviving brother in a family of four is timeless.
Tom Hanks plays the lead of Captain John Miller, a schoolteacher and
supporting roles are given to Barry Pepper, Tom Sizemore, Matt Damon
and Edward Burns among others who all act very well. The opening battle
scene is my favourite movie scene, completely capturing the horrors of
not just World War 2, but every other war as well. Furthermore,
Spielberg accurately captures the soldier's emotions in the war, an
aspect some war movies lack. The audience is able to put themselves in
the soldier's shoes very easily, particularly in the scenes comprising
of American deaths. I found this film excellent and I hope anyone else
who watched it did as well.

******
28 December 2011
10
Steven Spielberg directed this powerful, realistic re-creation of
WWII's D-day invasion and the immediate aftermath in this movie,Saving
Private Ryan.The story,written by Robert Rodat,is loosely based on the
real-life case of the Niland brothers.It features Tom Hanks as U.S.
Army Captain John H. Miller,together with Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns,
Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Adam Goldberg,Jeremy Davies
and Matt Damon as Private First Class James Francis Ryan,a paratrooper
who is the last surviving brother of four servicemen.The story opens with a prologue in which a veteran brings his family to
the American cemetery at Normandy, and a flashback then joins Capt.
John Miller and GIs in a landing craft making the June 6, 1944,
approach to Omaha Beach to face devastating German artillery fire.
Miller's men slowly move forward to finally take a concrete pillbox. On
the beach littered with bodies is one with the name "Ryan" stenciled on
his backpack. Army Chief of Staff Gen. George C. Marshall, learning
that three Ryan brothers from the same family have all been killed in a
single week, requests that the surviving brother, Pvt. James Ryan, be
located and brought back to the United States. Capt. Miller gets the
assignment, and he chooses a translator, Cpl. Upham, skilled in
language but not in combat, to join his squad of right-hand man Sgt.
Horvath, plus privates Mellish, Medic Wade, cynical Reiben from
Brooklyn, Italian-American Caparzo, and religious Southerner Jackson,
an ace sharpshooter who calls on the Lord while taking aim. Having
previously experienced action in Italy and North Africa, the close-knit
squad sets out through areas still thick with Nazis. After they lose
one man in a skirmish at a bombed village, some in the group begin to
question the logic of losing more lives to save a single soldier.Saving Private Ryan develops into a powerful and potent portrayal of
men at war.It sets a new benchmark for realism in World War II films,
and defined war movies for a generation. A film of scope and vision
rarely experienced, its award-winning cinematography and sound editing
helped convey the blood-chilling images that presents war as
violent,harrowing, and horrific.Aside from that,it also presents a soul
especially with the characters involved.The cast provided brilliant and
excellent performances especially from its lead star,Tom Hanks.And
definitely,Spielberg was masterful in his direction of the film as he
sends an anti-war message but not to the point of condemning patriotism
and love for one's country and countrymen.Truly a masterpiece.

******
27 August 2011
10
I read four or five pages of reviews for this film on the IMDb boards,
and most of them fall into one of two camps - those who felt it was the
best, or at least one of the best war movies ever made - and the
Spielberg bashers who decry the very fact that America and it's Allies
had even the slightest audacity to win the War. Granted, the concept of
good Americans versus evil Nazis is a bit too simplistic when it comes
to cinematic treatments. Those viewers who want to read so much of that
into the picture are missing one of Spielberg's main goals - 'How do
you find decency in the hell of warfare'? That question reverberates
around the central plot, the mission to rescue a sole surviving brother
who's three siblings have all perished in the same war already. For the
eight members of the rescue team, the quandary is presented in terms of
moral prerogatives - why potentially sacrifice so many soldiers at the
expense of just one, who may already be dead anyway? Moral dilemmas abound in the story. Ed Burns's Private Reiben
challenges Captain Miller's (Tom Hanks) decision to release a German
soldier on his own recognizance to turn himself over to an American
patrol. Private Caparzo's compassion for the young French girl in the
bombed out town is seen by the Captain as a life or death threat to his
unit, and must decide for the greater good of his men. Even when
Miller's Rangers finally achieve their objective and find Private Ryan
(Matt Damon), the situation does not play out in straightforward
fashion. Ryan resolutely refuses to be 'rescued', instead seeing that
alternative as abandoning his own men. By what right should he be so
singularly absolved of his duty to serve and protect his country? My
summary line above captures the essence of Miller's response and
observation, knowing that his duty and his humanity are in obvious
conflict.This conundrum creates another dynamic in the story, reverting back to
the character of Private Reiben. When Ryan was anonymous, it was easy
enough to dismiss him as some nameless, faceless soldier who didn't
warrant any special kind of treatment. Up close and personal however,
Ryan proves his value as a soldier in battle, side by side with Reiben
in the German tank ambush at Rammel. These perspectives are not typical
in your average war movie, and make the film far more interesting than
if it had taken a more documentary like approach, as in the opening
half hour of the film with the landing on Omaha Beach.Perhaps the most complex character, and the one I had the hardest time
with was Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies). By virtually all of his
responses to battle conditions and enemy encounters, he was an outright
coward. His singular moment of bravery was enacted with some measure of
revenge against Steamboat Willie, the German soldier who's life was
spared earlier in the picture. Willie provided Upham with a reason to
overcome his distaste for war, by abrogating an implied trust they
shared over a cigarette. Upham had his reason and motivation to kill
Willie, while allowing the remaining Germans to escape. For Upham, the
war had to become personal for him to take action, and that's no way to
survive in conflict.So for me, "Saving Private Ryan" isn't just a war film, and if you view
it through that lens, the film loses much of it's impact, even with the
brutality of Omaha Beach and the tank battle at the bridge. To be sure,
the picture succeeds at capturing the intense horror of war, but it's
power as a film goes deeper when it identifies with it's characters and
examines their relationships with each other as soldiers and men. How
do you find decency in the hell of warfare? One man at a time.

******
12 June 2011
9
In the late-90s there were two particular films that redefined their
particular genres. Saving Private Ryan was one of them (the other,
unfortunately, was The Matrix). Almost every war movie that followed
SPR, right down to 2008's Rambo, seemed to be no more than a pastiche
of Spielberg's hectic style.SPR proves what an inconsistent filmmaker Spielberg can be. The man has
had his fair share of misfires (Hook, anyone?) but this was his last
truly great effort. War of the Worlds and Munich were good, though
hardly as revolutionary, but The Terminal, Catch Me If You Can, and the
movie that called itself Indy IV were all just too gutless and
inoffensive. You'd never believe they were from the same director if
you didn't know better.A lot of critics have repeatedly praised SPR over the years, but they
all praise the same things (the documentary style, the realism, etc.)
Simultaneously, a lot of people have dismissed it as shallow,
badly-written, and void of any thrills beyond the 30-minute mark. But
look beneath the surface and you'll find that SPR does actually have a
tight screenplay, despite going through the motions on few occasions.
The wide and diverse cast (including Paul Giamatti, Ted Danson, Dennis
Farina, and Dale Dye) do good with the material. It's refreshing for a
war movie to move beyond the 'point of view of one man' cliché.Janusz Kaminski's desaturated, gritty, high-shutter-speed photography
is full of deep blacks and high contrast. This look has been imitated
to death over the years, but coupled with Spielberg's hurried, almost
unscripted approach to the action it adds an element of authenticity to
the film that the copycats have not been able to emulate.You really have to feel for all those poor soldiers who were massacred
on Omaha Beach (all men, I should point out). But what a badly planned
mission. No flack jackets, no smoke screens to cover their
landing...warfare has come so far in 65 years, it would be insane to
send so many hundreds off to die like that now. Many of them were pure
cannon fodder and the Military knew it. The film certainly does not
hold back on the bloody carnage. Most WWII movies up until that point
were sanitized and bloodless. Hardly realistic at all!The 169 minute running time passes fairly quickly. The film certainly
doesn't deserve the criticism that nothing interesting happens after
the beach invasion. As it has been imitated many times since, some of
then innovative moments (such as the silent 'war is hell' amid battle
chaos - which this film does three times!) have become clichés, but
don't judge SPR for it.The film won 5 Oscars, but lost the Best Picture award to Shakespeare
in Love, which is absolutely insane. I mean...what were they
thinking??? SPR is most certainly a classic, and one of the most
innovative and important war films of the past two decades, while
Shakespeare in Love is largely forgotten.

******
6 December 2010
8
Haven't seen this one since it played in theaters. I didn't think all
that much of it then. It actually improved a bit on re-watch, though I
still find that my problems with it back then have not at all
disappeared. My main problem is (and was) that Spielberg really seems
to think this film is some deep anti-war statement, some extremely
important existential story, and it's just not. At heart, this is very
much like the WWII classics The Story of G.I. Joe and Battleground
(both directed by the great William A. Wellman), about a group of
fairly stereotypical and not all that well defined soldiers who risk
their lives for a greater purpose. Sure, they are constantly asking the
question "Is it worth it?", but Spielberg's (painfully corny)
wraparound story, with Private Ryan visiting Arlington National
Cemetery, answer that question with a resounding "DUH!" Not to mention
that the whole existential crisis (why should eight men be sent to die
for one?) is a fabricated one, anyway, as it is, after all, fiction.
And, during the film's release, we were told over and over again by
everyone involved with the film and very gullible film critics that
this was an anti-war movie (one of them who could see through that just
saw fit to tell us how much more awesome Joe Dante's completely
forgotten Small Soldiers was, so he seemed kind of like a crazy
homeless person yelling at a wall). Yeah, it's so not that, either. The
proof, twelve and a half years later, exists in the slew of WWII themed
video games, all very clearly inspired by the film, that have ruled
consoles in the past six or so years. I clearly remember Roger Ebert
saying that this was the first film that did not make war seem fun, but
damned if people aren't having a ton of fun shooting up Nazis on their
TVs. I'd guess that Saving Private Ryan has done more to recruit new
soldiers than any Army of One commercial ever has.So, yeah, it misses several of its main aims. However, while you can
castigate Steven Spielberg for misunderstanding his context, you can't
say a thing bad about his technical work on the film. Sure, the
hand-held aesthetic that he uses in the battle sequences has inspired a
lot of very dire copycats over the past twelve years (try not to laugh
during the big battle at the start of Gladiator), but it was pretty
brilliant at the time, and it really puts you right there. War might be
fun, but it's also damn scary, and I found myself shaking with some
tears in my eyes after the gigantic beach storming that opens the film
(I try to forget the Arlington sequences exist) finally comes to an
end. The slower, more personal moments aren't the best (partly due to
the variable cast, which ranges from fantastic (Jeremy Davies) to
acceptable (Tom Hanks) to terribly annoying (Edward Burns and Paul
Giamatti)), but they're mostly fine, and always beautifully shot. I
love some of the smaller moments of the movie, especially the slap that
the little French girl gives her father when the G.I.s are able to hand
her back to him, after the extraordinarily tense sniper sequence. All
in all, while the film is kind of a mixed bag, I do think that the
impressive moments far outweigh the overall ponderous nature of the
movie.

******
15 November 2010
5
I remember watching this movie when I was a little kid and what a great
time I had at doing so! Because, when you're this young you just don't
care about plots or film-making. So, if you sit back and analyze this
flick you won't find many Oscar winning angles, but that is not what
this movie is trying to achieve. We just may call this another
typically silly Tom Hank's early age's movie that many have come to
love at first sight.Simply put, this movie is all about funny situations and the comical
performances of Tom Hanks and the dog (that dog was a great actor!).
Nowadays, I continue to enjoy it because the "chemistry" between Hanks
and the dog is very good!

******
9 September 2010
10
Realistically, if Saving Private Ryan, a masterstroke even by
Spielberg's standards, is renowned for anything to the unfortunate
global margin who have not yet witnessed its awesome might, it is the
opening battle scene at Omaha Beach. In a graphic, unflinching and
intelligently crafted 24 minutes of intense combat, Hanks' Captain
Miller attempts to lead a scattered battalion up the Normandy dunes
where the German's have strategically set up a prime and virtually
impenetrable defense, made up of turrets and other artillery which they
fire unceasingly at the landing soldiers. This sequence has been
lauded, justifiably, as possibly the most realistic, not to mention
enthralling, WWII battle scene ever made. A nonstop, action-packed spectacle of epic proportions, this opening
absorbs the viewer to the extent that the experience becomes a
predominantly visceral one, where everything on screen is felt rather
than seen or heard. When the soldiers begin to yell military jargon to
each other amidst their chaotic surroundings, much of which is either
inaudible or incomprehensible, the instinctive understanding between
the characters and the viewer is mutual: "We're getting shot at, so
shoot back harder!" During these times when the characters take time
to stop and confer with one another, it is refreshing to see Spielberg
defy war- movie convention by not also causing the turmoil around them
to cease: many a soldier is cut off mid-sentence by an unfortunately
aimed bullet/mortar shell. And, as if positioning the camera in amongst
this pandemonium would not suffice, Spielberg goes to great lengths to
ensure that the audience feels not only like a spectator to this event
but a borderline participant; techniques such as allowing a free-fall
of water and blood onto the camera and the incorporation of a
smouldering grainy effect on the lens that seems to elongate and
redefine every stroke of light and colour on screen add to the
experience.Spielberg's meticulous attention-to-detail is a distinctive aspect of
his directing style that informs much of the Omaha Beach landing as
there's a strong notion while watching that every one of the hundreds
of extras on screen is briefed on the scene as fully as possible, being
instructed on precisely when and where to shoot, scream, fall, die etc.
This, amongst other Spielberg traits, is the mark of a brilliant
director and a quality that no doubt won him his second Best Director
statue, along with his uncharacteristic choosing of such mature subject
matter as in his previous win for Schindler's List five years earlier.Saving Private Ryan is, at its foundation, a thrilling and rewarding
film that succeeds in exhilarating the audience and fulfilling the
needs of any adrenaline junkies who happen to be watching. What sets
the film apart from a vast category of movies that also achieve this
merit is that when the action stops the viewers interest doesn't. This
is attributed to the snappily flowing and probable dialogue that never
degrades itself enough to be necessary; if any quality of a film is
ever more appropriately ordained necessary as opposed to entertaining,
rest assured it definitely could've been better. Granted, everyone
could have gone without Hanks' speech about the horrors of war and his
longing for home, the only truly disingenuous moment of the entire
film, manufactured solely for usage at awards ceremonies as a short to
accompany Hanks' nominations. But this single scene, try as it might,
thankfully does not derail the rest of the film's engaging, at times
funny and insightful script; in fact, in being surrounded by such
brilliance, Hanks' monologue even becomes somewhat endearing with
repeat viewings.Saving Private Ryan, a gem in its own right, is heightened to further
planes of excellence by a cast of great variety and, at the time,
predominant obscurity, with the exceptions of Hanks, Tom Sizemore and
Matt Damon. Nevertheless, each and every one of the mainly young and
inexperienced actors that make up Miller's unit are given a chance to
prove themselves worthy of their time on screen: modern day action hero
Vin Diesel's dying Caparzo pleading for one of his friends to shelter a
letter for his father; the eerily captivating Ribsi's Wade speaking of
his long-tempered guilt at having deceived his mother; Davies' Upham
silently crumbling into a self-loathing, hysterical mess, unable to
summon the courage to shoot an enemy soldier; virtually anytime that
Goldberg's Mellish and Pepper's Jackson speak, with their casual
humour, stoic sorrow and startling arrogance that is as involving as
any other character. Ed Burns as Reiben, the largest supporting role, initiates the first of
what has resulted in a typecast career and a slew of hardened, defiant,
almost "bad-boy" roles. He shatters this façade only once to speak of a
beautiful and, most pertinently, curvaceous woman he knows back home
whom he thinks of whenever he finds the war around him too much to
bear. Sizemore is walking familiar ground as the toughened and ripened
authoritarian support, but at least there is a dimension to his
character, unseen in the ill-fated Pearl Harbour. Matt Damon in the
brief role of Private Ryan is outstanding in his ability to connect
with the audience, especially the anecdote he tells involving his three
brothers, persuading surprisingly comfortable laughter and a touching
sense of loss. Tom Hanks' fine portrayal of Captain Miller is a truly original
character in which there is no hint of the tender Forrest Gump or the
jaded but honest Charlie Wilson; Miller is a testament to Hanks' wide
and impressive spectrum, which is made abundantly clear anyway by
virtually every film he appears in.An audience-pleasing endeavour that offers as much excitement as it
does quaint and unexpected intimacy, Saving Private Ryan is a war film
that never seeks to glorify itself, but rather acknowledge that great
things can sprout from even the sh*ttiest situations.

******
20 May 2010
10
Growing up, I knew that my family had a lot of history in the United
States Marine Corps and the U.S. Army. My grandfather and his brother
were soldiers in the Pacific, and my grandmother's brothers were
Marines alongside them. My grandfather would often be asked about what
happened over there, and he always just bowed his head, swallowed hard,
and told half truths and "beside-the-point" stories to appease whoever
asked- never truly telling any of us what he and his fellow Americans
were- heroes.I had often wondered myself why my grandfather wouldn't talk about
WWII, but one day in my U.S. History class in high school I got my
answer. This film opened my eyes to the horrors of war. I sat in shock
as the gore exploded in front of me, wondering how soldiers and Marines
like those in my family lived- or whats more, were able to cope with
the events that made them heroes.My point with all of this is that in this day and age, we as a society
are so accustomed to violence that we don't really realize what
fighting men go through in times of war. We see "10 soldiers killed in
Iraq" on the news, but it doesn't really register to us as civilians.
This was Spielburg's goal in making this film. He wanted to show all of
us what fighting men go through for us- you and me. Every American
Citizen should see this film to truly understand what it takes to keep
us safe.As far as the film itself goes, it is absolutely amazing. No film is
perfect, but the actors are incredibly convincing in their roles. The
emotion is there, the battle recreations are realistic and as they were
in life, and the cinematography is outstanding. It's very obvious that
everyone involved with this film was dedicated to making it a tribute
to the veterans and it is without any shadow of a doubt, the best war
movie ever made.One thing to note is that this is NOT a film for your kids or a film to
watch casually. It is intense and should be treated as such.10/10

******
28 February 2010
9
I've seen this film 2 weeks ago and I've never forgotten this dramatic
film. It's not only a normal World War II film movie but a movie with a
very moving story and many impressive scenes. It's a mus seen film
because you really can imagine that you were accompanying the search
troop which was looking for James Ryan. Some parts are filmed with hand
cameras which have the effect that you're much more on the edge of your
seat and thus it takes the character of a realistic documentary film.
But also the typical war music makes you feel some shivers. With the
actor Tom Hanks as captain John Miller you see a convincing major who
plays his role as if he had never been doing something else. Personally
I think that this is the best and most dramatic war movie I've ever
seen. It really pushes you to think about the situations in war and
about the army and all this stuff. I recommend Saving private Ryan" to
everyone who likes war movies with partly true and impressive stories
and who isn't scared if he sees sometimes some blood.

******
20 December 2009
8
I admire this film on many levels. The acting is absolutely superb
especially the performances given by Tom Hanks, Vin Diesel, Matt Damon
and all the supporting actors as well as the other leads, I don't have
preferences but I only mention these off the top of my head. The
direction by Spielberg is confidant and calm when it needs to be but
also ferociously intense when there is a need for it. For every
explosion and gun-fight there is a quiet moment between the characters
which is just as worthwhile if not more and Robert Rodat's screenplay
is pitch-perfect. Janusz Kaminski is one of the finest cinematographers
alive and he brings the story alive in exquisite detail. The first
twenty-minutes which show the famed D-Day landings is one of the most
spectacular and haunting pieces of footage ever caught on film. There
are many reasons I love the film but what brought the film down for me
was essentially the story. There was no lack of it or too much of it
and it was interesting but when Spielberg is fighting for believability
in these shots I did not believe it with the story as a back-drop. The
story goes that after Damon's brothers are killed around the globe on
the same day the army wants to send him home to his mother and sends a
group led by Hanks to find him and send him home. While something that
is decent. I'm sorry but the government is not that decent and I didn't
believe it for a second which constantly brought the film down.

******
6 December 2009
9
A group of U.S soldiers cross enemy territory to take James Ryan
(Damon) home to his mother, who has already lost 3 sons.Steven Spielberg's brutally honest war drama tells the story of a brave
and emotionally uplifting idea of family that exploits the nature of
the Second World War in a highly realistic and flinching manor that has
won over fans all over the world.The Jaws director instantly sets off by cementing the main characters
at the heart of the battle of Normandy. This opening battle is a mark
of true leadership from Spielberg. You simply have to look and see the
vast collection of people, main actors, extras, stunt doubles all
crowded together to see the work and effort put in by the man and it
all works in perfect synchronization to create a devastating feel of
realism. The silence of no music and the cries from soldiers and shouts
of orders and heavy breathe give this opening a very eerie feel, a
necessity to make the feel of the film, which continues uninterrupted
throughout the entire duration.The action sequences of this 1998 release are the key element to its
realism. The use of various weapons, the direction of tanks and boats
all comes together to create a hardship for the script and emotional
feel of battle.The script adds a great sense of drama that coincides with the film's
ambitious outlay. The inclusion of emotional soldier sub stories adds
an extra dimension to the already dramatic element of the Second World
War. Matt Damon's ad lib for his brother's spying game is a fine
example of the emotional core at the heart of the situation. Other
elements including friendship and family are well included and
portrayed.The story itself a story within a bigger story is great. This rescue
attempt to save Private Ryan included numerous twists, shocking action
montages and a battle of personalities withstanding emotion that gives
this film a true sense of realism in context, justifying what it would
truly be like going to war and dealing with unthinkable consequences.Tom Hanks leads strongly from the front and though not his strongest
role gives a fine leading performance, inspiring the likes of other
soldiers in his group to follow suit. Matt Damon as ever is perfect
whilst the religious side story to Barry Pepper's protagonist is
perfectly emotional and balanced with other sub stories.Spielberg's direction extends to more than just big battle montages.
Such as the shot of a hand through dying eyes, the emotional core of
doing the duty, the high shots from towers, the character recognition,
the director has created something utterly remarkable.At times the film can slow down a little too much and is quite long but
then the relevance is significant of the true battle, as with the
filming. The shaking camera and unsteady feel with the colour ratio
changing adds spice and a uniqueness to make a groundbreaking and
deserved Oscar winner.

******
25 August 2009
10
Easily the best war movie ever, not including Apocalypse Now as a war
movie. Saving Private Ryan has a great yet simple plot, a very powerful
and interesting story. The characters are all Very believable and some
relatable. It is an Epic film, not only the best war movie ever but one
of my favorite films. Tom Hanks is very likable, Tommy S is a bad ass.
Paul Giamatti is great, even Vin Deisel is good, his most suiting and
best role. Speilburg can really do a war film! The cinematography is
great. It is the most accurate and raw depiction of Omaha beach on film
period. Great film, great war movie. If you haven't seen it where have
you been? Make sure you see it

******
24 August 2009
10
I won't summarise the film or talk about its technical and artistic
brilliance. It is a brilliant film which depicts WW2 as it was, not the
sanitised versions we were used to seeing from the 50s onwards. But, to
me, there is a more important lesson to be gained from this film...I went to see this film in a suburban cineplex here in Australia. On
the night there was a huge audience and a large group of teenagers
who'd wandered in because the film they wanted to see had a full house
(I overheard them saying this...). They were boisterous and noisy and
sometimes obnoxious as kids can sometimes be at cinemas. But after the
first five minutes of the film they were dead silent and they remained
so for the rest of the film.I looked at their faces as they exited the theatre at the end of the
film. All were ashen-faced, drained...some clearly close to tears. I
was happy about this because a film had hammered home to a bunch of
modern kids the reality of war without them having to experience it
first hand, thank God. All at once they learned that war is horrible,
sometimes necessary and best avoided. I'm sure they learned to look at
the elderly survivors of this time in human history with a new-found
respect. In short, they grew up considerably and without any physical
pain as a result of watching this masterful film. And for that, I thank
Spielberg profusely. Bravo, Sir.

******
24 July 2009
10
Absolutely a top notch movie. I personally think it is a top 20 film of
all time. The acting was exceptional, the special effects where
exceptional and the plot was not bad at all. Very realistic! I liked
how Tom Hanks portrayed a common man ( before the war) and came to be a
very uncommon man during combat. If we look back at the Greatest
Generation valor was common to many American sailors, airman, marines
and soldiers. The intensity of combat ...or better yet the intensity
and urgency of the mission to bring the last son out of France (Combat)
kept a tension built up. All around classic and rare film. This film
"hit on all cylinders".

******
7 July 2009
10
First off, I have heard some reviewers say the Germans are treated like
they were born to die. That is definitely not true. In the beginning,
they show multiple scenes in which the Americans shoot surrendering
Germans out of cruelty. They show the sniper in the tower, show
forgiveness as he was about to shoot Caparzo (Vin Diesel) in the head.
German also at the end of the movie, showed forgiveness to Upham and
walked past him even though Upham was actually armed. OK, now to the
movie. It was one of the best movies I have ever seen. This movie is
very disturbing and graphic but it isn't bloody to be bloody. It has a
purpose behind it, and that is to show what soldiers had to go through
at one point. The scenes in the beginning with the beach was
disturbing. The hand to hand combat knife scene at the end of the movie
was revolting, yet it demonstrating what hand to hand combat is in war.
You will do anything to live, even if you have to kill someone like
they do in the movie. OK, just simply put, this is the best movie ever.

******
19 May 2009
10
Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war movies ever made period.
From the intense harrowing opening battle sequence to it's explosive
yet touching climax, Saving Private Ryan grabs hold of you and never
lets go. Acclaimed director Steven Spielberg brings this movie to the
big screen and he continues to prove that he's one of the best
filmmakers in Hollywood today. With a great cast including Tom Hanks,
Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore, Matt Damon, Barry Pepper, and Vin Disiel a
relatively unknown at the time (in a small role) all turn in terrific
performances. For those of you who haven't seen it yet I won't say
anything else about the film. It's one of those movies you should see
without knowing too much about it because that only enhances the
experience. The battle sequences are jaw dropping, hard to watch at
times, and realistic giving audiences a look at what these courageous
men went through back then. The running time of 170 minutes did make
the movie feel a little slow at times but thats a minor flaw and the
good more than outweighs the bad. If you're a fan of Spielberg, the
cast, or war movies than you'll love Saving Private Ryan. It's one of
those films that can be missed.

******
9 May 2009
10
When you see certain movies like Rambo, Commando or Predator, you see a
warrior going out in the jungles and taking the whole enemy army down
single handed! The truth is that while such movies are good in their
own right because they allow you to escape into a world of fantasy, the
movies are misleading because war is nothing like what is shown in
them. You do not survive a war because you have muscles which you can
flex. You do not survive a war because you are more skilled than the
other. Those are the days of ancient warfare when you would fight with
swords. But modern warfare is all about luck. You survive only if you
are lucky that of all the thousands of bullets and debris flying
around, not one strikes you or even if it does, it strikes you in a way
that it does not kill you. Nobody goes into a war without fear. Nobody
remembers a country when fighting a war. All that matters is survival -
survival at all costs. And that is the true picture of war that Saving
Private Ryan manages to show so beautifully.The movie opens with a very brutal war sequence based on the Ohama
beach war. It is difficult to imagine how the movie makers managed to
plan the filming of this entire sequence. It is so realistic and will
forever dispel the notions of any exuberant youth who thinks that war
is glamorous. There is nothing glamorous about war and there never ever
will be. I have heard rumors from my friends that some people vomited
in the cinema hall due the extent of violence portrayed in this movie.
And so I must warn you that if you are someone who is easily affected
by blood and gore, pray do not watch this movie or at least this
sequence.Spielberg along with the rest of the crew does a stupendous and a
beautiful job of showing a rescue mission that leads the leading group
into the heart of war to rescue one man - Private Ryan who has already
lost three of his brothers to the World War operations. An order has
come in from top authorities to extradite the last of the four
brothers. How does the team assigned feel about it? Needless to say,
they are grumbling about it but as we should know, a solider is nothing
but like a pawn in a game of chess the moves of which are determined by
people far from any pain and without any proper understanding of how
painful war is in reality.For any person, this movie is a must-watch. It is a must-watch for many
reasons. You must watch it because it will remind you of what the world
has seen in World War II. It will remind you that war should indeed be
the last solution that a nation must resort to. It will remind you that
there is no honor and glory in war. There is only one thing - miserable
death. This movie will prove to be a life-changing experience for most
people. It might even leave you with some sleepless nights. Yet, it
remains a movie that I believe one must watch in his lifetime.

******
4 January 2009
7
I've just seen Saving Private Ryan for the first time and, as occurs
when I first see a film, I quickly check IMDb to see what the Haters
and Lovers of the movie say in their reviews. First, the Haters.Any time any movie portrays America as savior of Europe in World War
II, the result gets panned by these groups (and if they're not yet
organized, they should be as they deserve each other): (1) America
haters from any country, notably (a) Germany ("we weren't ALL bad") or
(b) the UK ("we carried the burden until the tardy self-interested
Yanks decided to enter war, which by the way was almost won when the US
came in"), and (2) hard leftists everywhere (how the left is anywhere
entitled to credibility is utterly beyond me). Hey Germany! You WERE bad! Hitler was constitutionally elected and
brought to power by the German electorate, only too happy to see the
Jew (and the occasional Bolshevik) blamed for everything afflicting
Weimar Germany. Hey UK! We love you, but sometimes your hard right and hard left are
hard to stomach. Pssst! You, our British cousins, had LOST the war by
1941. It was over, ended, caput, stick-a-fork-in-em done. Winston well
knew how critical it was that America enter the war - which it did, and
which it won. We are delighted that winning the war was largely an effort of the
English-speaking world, but it was the English-speaking world's largest
country that led the way, turned the tide and won the war. Stop with
the idiosyncratic reasons why, exactly, the US simply joined an already
successful enterprise. She didn't. Britain was sunk and defeated, with
precious little industrial capacity left - industrial might had to come
from the US and Canada, but mostly the US. Saving Private Ryan isn't "propaganda" - it contains critical truths,
and sometimes truth makes for excellent propaganda.

******
30 December 2008
9
There are two parts to this movie. The opening twenty-five minutes set
a new standard for the depiction of contemporary conflict in any
situation and deserve to be appraised in its own right. Spielberg was
careful to invest the sequence with solipsistic moments and shots that
would recur later in the film so as not to have created something too
distinct from the rest of the film. No Lohengrin prelude here.The consequent film has to meet the standard Spielberg has set himself
- which it does, not least in am equally praiseworthy, formally
symmetrical set piece at the opposite end of the film . Inbetween is an
episodic chain of events as the youthful GI squad go looking for the
Ryan of the title, trying to work out if the toughest battle is to be
waged against Germans or existential purposelessness.Nothing is phoned in, not a performance, not an effect, not a shot. Tom
Hanks could have won a third Oscar and the five that were snapped up
(direction, cinematography, editing, sound and sound effects) were
indisputable. In retrospect. I just remember being so lost in thought I
nearly got run over coming out of the cinema. 9/10

******
9 December 2008
10
The brilliantly directed, Spielberg World War Two epic, Saving Private
Ryan(1998) completely redefines combat action films up until this
point. Whether you are one for extreme realism, or just like to watch
things blow up, this movie is the epitome of all things good and pure
in war movies. There is no compromise in this film, it seamlessly joins
drama and action to form a movie that mom and dad would like. It
follows a rag tag but elite squad of Army rangers through their
historical landing on Omaha beach in Normandy France, to their journey
to find and bring home Private Ryan ( Matt Damon) of the 101st
airborne. Their mission was to find and retrieve Damon, and send him
back to the United States after the tragic news of his three brothers
dying in combat. The army thought the loss too great for his mother to
bear. However, this was a reoccurring point in the movie, is the life
of one worth the lives of many? The squad leader (Tom Hanks) delivers
an Oscar- nominated performance that is unforgettable while acting side
by side with Tom Sizemore as Sergeant Mike Horvath and Edward Burns as
Private Richard Reiben.The movie left me wanting more war movies of the same quality,
immediately recognizing the world class directing, cinematography and
editing. The emotion and intensity is captured by the shaky camera
shots, to the low and high angle pans of the battle scenes and really
brought home with the close up of the character's grief and pain. The
directing really made this film; it not only enthralled the viewer
during the movie, but powerful scenes left the viewer thinking long
after the film was over. No matter how I describe the intricacies that
make this picture great, none do more justice and give more description
than just one word, Spielberg; the credibility is in the name. Sure
enough, as credit is given where it is due the movie received five
Oscars three of them being Best Director (Steven Spielberg), Best
Cinematography (Janusz Kaminski) and Best Editing (Michael Kahn). It
also won Oscars for Best Effects and Sound Effects, as well as Best
Sound.I would recommend this movie to anyone. If you're the ardent movie
critic or just an average Joe, there is something that we can all
appreciate about this film and leave with the same expression, "Wow."
This piece of art is nothing less than the silver screen at its best; I
give this film two thumbs up (more if I was humanly capable) and my
full approval.

******
3 December 2008
9
The first encounter of Spielberg with tom hanks was amazing. And i
almost cried for the movie.Spielberg is able to take you into action and make you feel as if you
are a participant in the movie and not just a viewer. This is Tom Hanks' best movie he ever did until terminal. Forget his
performances in Philadelphia and Forrest Gump (though they were also
good); he should have received another Oscar for the role of Capt. John
Miller, a leader who must act strong in front of his men, but must also
hide his emotions from them. It would have been well-deserved if he won again.And what more is- A great war tale. Nicely drawn!The first scenes in the movie was enough to tell about it!9.6/10

******
30 November 2008
9
After seeing this movie for the first time last night, The only word
that can be used to describe this movie is "spectacular".I chose to rent this movie simply because of the outstanding reviews.
Everyone who saw it said that it was a masterpiece, so i knew that i
had to see it. I've seen plenty of war movies, some bad, some
excellent. Before I move on, I have to say that this is the closest
thing there is to Band of Brothers. After watching Band of Brothers
countless times, my expectations for Saving Private Ryan were extremely
high, but it met them in the end. The only major problem I had with
this film was the fact that I had tons of trouble renting it due to me
being 15 years of age.The first scene of the movie shows Ryan as an elderly man visiting an
American WWII cemetery in France, and i think that the movie could have
done without that scene. That scene tells you right of the bat that
Private Ryan lives through the movie, and that someone close to him in
the movie dies. Putting that scene aside, the first combat scene takes
place on the shores of Omaha Beach, the most gruesome battle of all the
beach heads. When it shows the 101st airborne preparing to hit the
beaches in the boats, you almost feel as nervous as they are, and as
soon as the boat hatch opens, you feel helpless, almost as if you were
on the beach, left to die. The entire scene is absolutely jaw dropping,
and it drags you through the beach, showing you all the hell and
carnage that took place that day.The rest of the movie is very straight forward. A small group of men
set out to rescue a "Private Ryan". They barely have any idea who he is
or where he's located, All they know is his name, and why they need to
find him. The acting is really great, and Tom Hanks was as great as I
expected.But, there were a few to many conflicts between the soldiers that
really shouldn't of happened, and the soldiers in the film don't
realize that the Germans are people to, and they are killing Americans
for the same reason they're killing Germans. But I guess soldiers back
then didn't realize that either, so it doesn't matter, but it will get
to you while you watch the film. Overall, this move was of course
"spectacular", and it definitely deserves a purchase.

******
11 November 2008
5
Visually this film was brilliant, especially the first scenes on D-day.
It was probably the most graphic and visually impressive war movie I've
seen, but a great war movie isn't made by how good (or in a way not so
good) it looks. The acting in this film was pretty mediocre and i was
only interested when people were shooting each other! The script was
terrible with cheesy characters and back stories that really wasn't
very interesting. The plot was poor as well it may have been based on a
true mission in world war 2, but it wasn't as good as it could've been
if they had just simply based it on a famous battle in Normandy. This
could've of been a brilliant film but it fell on some very important
hurdles.

******
18 March 2008
7
Saving Private RyanBy Daniel Rosado Directed: Steven Spielberg Cast: Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam
Goldberg, Vin Diesel,Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies, Matt DamonSaving Private Ryan is movie about a captain and his men going on an
unusual mission to retrieve a soldier and send him home. This movie
takes place during World War II, and is quite different from other war
movies you might have seen in the past.When you first see Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks), he's trying to
invade a beach with other soldiers dying all around him. Everywhere you
look there's a soldier either being shot through his helmet or someone
blowing up. Medics, such as Irwin Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), desperately
try to save the soldiers, but many of them also get killed. When the
first battle is finally over, you see dead men of all ages, some
missing limbs, you also see the water near the beach has turned blood
red.Miller and the survivors (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper,
Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy Davies) of his crew
are later on given a mission to find a Private Jason Francis Ryan (Matt
Damon), and send him back home to his mother. His three brothers have
recently died and he was the last of the Ryan boys.Private Richard Reiben (Edward Burns), along with the other men, feels
that risking their lives, to save one man is very unreasonable. But no
matter how much they complain about the mission, Miller tells them that
it's their job to complete it.When they do find Ryan, (the real one) he refuses to leave. He said
that his comrades were his new family and he wasn't going to abandon
them. But Miller wasn't taking "no" for an answer, he decided to have
his crew help Ryan complete his final assignment. All of the actors put
on good performances for the movie. They really did seem like the type
of people you would see go to war. And when one of them would die, you
wouldn't feel like "There goes another character dying", you would
really feel what the soldiers felt when they would lose a comrade.Saving Private Ryan is movie unlike any other you might have seen in
the past. You really do see what the real soldiers had to endure during
WWII, and why you honor them for what they did.3 out of 5 stars

******
10 March 2008
10
This movie was an instant classic. Everything about this movie was perfect. I could not find a single flaw
in the acting, storyline, effects, etc.First, there's a perfect cast. Tom Hanks was the perfect choice to play
Capt. John Miller. Tom Sizemore filled the part as Miller's
"side-kick", Sgt. Mike Horvath very nicely. Edward Burns was very good
as the antagonizing Pvt. Richard Reiben. Barry Pepper was great as the
sniper, Pvt. Daniel Jackson Adam Goldberg was good as the emotional
Pvt. Stanley Mellish. Giovanni Ribisi was excellent as the shy medic,
Pvt. Irwin Wade. Jeremy Davies was actually funny and good at the same
time playing the clutzy, peace-loving, nervous Pvt. Timothy Upham. Even
Vin Diesel gave an excellent performance as the tough Pvt. Adrian
Caparzo. Matt Damon was great for the limited time he was in the movie
as Pvt. James Francis Ryan.The gore and special FX were first class. Everything looked so real. It
was as if they were in the actual battles. D-Day landing at Dog One was
particularly gory and well made. This movie must have had one hell of a
huge budget, and it payed off big time. The sound score went excellent with every scene. It really made you
feel for the events that were occurring.The story was also great. Usually war movies have a pointless storyline
but Saving Private Ryan proves them wrong with a story of its own. This movie was perfect, Spielberg at his best. It deserves its place on
the top 250. I recommend this to war/action movie fans of all kinds. 10/10.

******
13 January 2007
10
Bullets slash through the air. Everything explodes around you. Your men
are getting shelled to death everywhere you look. Blood goes in your
face. You lose your sanity in war. You don't know what to do, or where
to go. This is SPR's depiction of Omaha Beach on D-Day 1944, and an
absolutely brilliant one at that. Not since SPR has any filmmaker with
any budget churned out an action scene as horrifyingly real as this
film's brutal depiction of the Normandy landings. Even if for nothing
else other than the first half-hour, you should still watch this film.
From the moment you see nervous recruits chuck up inside the Higgins
boats, you can tell you are in for a stunning action scene. Though
after that the film won't ever be as intense or shocking in its action,
it is still something truly special. The desaturated colours, abundance
of shouting, swearing and explosions tell you one thing - this is war.
Though Black Hawk Down is easily as intense as this, it just doesn't
have the gritty feel of SPR and you can't exactly care about the
characters. But on this, you can - they're all real people leading real
lives back home - no horrible sacrifices or acts of heroism - just
ordinary guys like us, thrust into a world that they didn't like and in
which they knew death awaited them at any corner. I doubt anybody will
ever make a war movie that will recapture SPR's dizzy heights. Flags of
our Fathers didn't do the job and Letters From Iwo Jima, though it is
looking promising, just isn't intended to be a box-office smash. Though
SPR is full of war-movie clichés, it is far better than most movies and
besides, it is hard to like a movie without an emotional or sentimental
side - every film needs a heart. And the war memorial scenes at the
beginning and end of the film show us what SPR wanted to be all along -
a respectful homage to the soldiers of WWII. To be honest, with all the
intense and bloody action scenes in this film putting us in the thick
of battle, it is good to have a bit of emotional contemplation once in
a while. War is brutal and unforgiving, but war is also saddening and
tear-jerking - Saving Private Ryan uses both those sides to its
advantage. Forget major plot twists or superbly intelligent and
brilliant scripts, clever plots that lose you and amazing hero
characters - realism is the place to be in war cinema. That may explain
why Saving Private Ryan did so well for itself. 10/10

******
9 November 2006
9
Okay, first things first. This movie is violent. Realistically violent.
That is not good for a movie. There are violent films. Then there are
violent films that are unpleasant to watch. Don't get me wrong. This is
a great film. But, lets face facts, you can't watch this movie more
than once. It got to the point where I stood up in tears yelling at the
screen "STOP IT, STOP IT!" Much glorified violence in the film which I
hate. Steven Spielberg in my opinion is a very sick man. His films always
feature innocent people being slaughtered in some realistic manner.
Whether it be being eaten, being vaporized, or being inadvertedly blown
up by a bomb. Also it messes with your head big time. You watch the
death scenes and you watch the Americans getting slaughtered and your
like "Yeah get those sons of b%$*&*!" But then they capture the Nazi
and he's only following orders. Then they kill him and you ask yourself
"Well, who's the bad guy here?" Adam Goldbergs death was chilling and
incredibly painful to endure. At which point I realized. He just wanted
to make a violent film. After witnessing that over the top, violent,
and completely unnecessary death I wondered why I was watching it.This film emphasizes the horrors of war though. This film is useful. It
is a wake up call to all those conservatives who are trying to shove
American customs down Iraqs throat. Our soldiers have been suffering
this horrific ordeal for years and why? WWII was for a better cause.
This film is a one time thing. It is a wake up call mostly. but, other
than that it was graphic, realistic, and over all very painful to
watch. Unless your the violent creep who gets off with violent movies.
In that case go crazy.

******
6 November 2006
9
When I say clichés, I mean the stuff like the flag waving in the sun,
an old man crying at the beginning, etc.When I say showing off, I am specifically showing the first portion of
the Omaha Beach sequence in slow motion. That was very irritating. I
want a war movie that will just throw the gore and horror at you, not
one that is trying to deliver it in slow motion...that is absolutely
ridiculous.Many will disagree, but that is why I am very fond of the movie Black
Hawk Down...no cliques, no showing off, straight to the point.All that being said, Saving Private Ryan is still a masterpiece, and I
will go as far as saying one of the best films ever made. It is
realistic, it is sad, and it does work.The acting is great, the screenplay is great, the visual and sound
effects are great, the cinematography is great...the movie is a
masterpiece.9/10, just because of the clichés and showing off...

******
14 October 2006
8
Saving Private Ryan a film that has been hailed by many as one of the
most realistic WW2 drama's to date, both in its context of battle and
of its initial atmosphere, few WW2 drama's are unable to capture the
harrowing battle that was of WW2, but Saving Private Ryan incorporates
the power that churns your stomach as minute after minute you will see
soldier's being instantly blown to pieces.As you most probably know Saving Private Ryan is a Steven Spielberg
film and Spielberg himself admitted that he has a self-obsession with
the WW2 context, as many of his earlier films such as the Oscar
scooping film Schindler's List and Empire of the Sun are typical
examples of films that are to do with WW2 and by in large they have
very similar elements in common with each other.Saving Private Ryan has quite an unusual storyline for a WW2 picture
but it does stand out, basically after the historic D-Day invasion on
Omaha Beach, a Captain who goes by the name of John Miller must go
along with seven other men to search for a missing soldier known as
Private James Ryan who's three brothers had been killed in combat and
for most of the film you will be seeing sequences of how the men
proceed to find him and what they must risk to get to him. The
storyline is successful in leaving a huge impact on the viewer(s) but
for the most part the storyline is not that attractive, for one thing
viewers just prefer to see Saving Private Ryan for its action and
realism rather than for the fictional story that has been laid out in
it.But even though this film possesses a disputable story there are
actually a host of notable actors in this film that do a good job of
backing up the film's rather sensitive storyline, Tom Hanks gives a
riveting performance as Cpt. John Miller, well as the film's main
supporting actors Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore and of course Matt Damon
in the role of Private Ryan give some very excellent portrayals of
their characters in the film's premise.All throughout Saving Private Ryan is an excellent film, it includes
some very realistic physics in terms of its action and the characters
themselves really stand out, but unfortunately the film's storyline can
be quite slow and offhanded and appears to be a little too innovative
and overrated, but if you're seeing Private Ryan for the first time
then the storyline might be the source that will entice you to watch it
to the bitter end.

******
2 September 2006
8
After the D-Day invasion, Captain Miller (Hanks) an his squad of seven
other soldiers go through Normandy to find James Francis Ryan, whose
three brothers were killed in action. As the squad searches to find
Private Ryan, they asked the inevitable question, why are they risking
their lives to save one soldier.Saving Private Ryan is the best film to react the D-Day landing. It is
both horrific and gruesome. It really shows how the landing took place.
Unfortunately, the film never gets better than the first 20-25 minutes.The plot is good and is something I have never seen before in a war
film. The characters are also very good, though it seems like
Speildberg just threw in every military job there is in this film. The
Motley Crue includes a sniper, a medic, a linguist, and many more.The directing and dialouge is very well done. It just seems like it
takes itself a little too seriously at times. It also seems like some
scenes drag on a bit to long.In my opinion, Hanks does a fantastic job, as does everyone else. The
only one I thought didn't act as good was Matt Damon as Private Ryan.
He has a fairly short role and didn't live up to it.All in all, it is a great war film with good directing, a good cast and
a good premise. Its just too bad that it dragged on a bit to long and
took itself too seriously. Other than that, it is a great movie to
watch if you need a war fix, just don't expect anything revolutionary
in the genre.8/10

******
2 September 2006
10
The opening scene alone should remind us that war never results in
"winners," only the living and the dead and the traumatized and the
maimed. And the Powers That Be that send them out to fulfill their
agenda. Will we ever learn? This movie is a must-see for all who not
only want to end war, but want to honor those who have been sacrificed
and bravely died hoping to end all wars for all of us. We are reminded
that while war is not honorable, human beings (both the "good guys" and
the "bad guys") are, and every soldier has a home, a family, a history
that is remembered by someone, somewhere. Saving Private Ryan reminds
us that they should be remembered by all of us. With hope that the "war
to end all wars" won't be the end of us all. Tom Hanks is his stellar
self, Tom Sizemore is perfectly cast and Giovanni Ribissi (sp?) proves
to be a perennially underrated gem of an actor. Thank you, Steven, for
this incredibly realistic and important film.

******
31 August 2006
10
Great movie from the standpoint of emotional trials and tribulations of
war and especially WWII but no soldier or officer, in that war ever
wore his rank in to battle on his uniform, helmet, flag, overcoat,
automobile, never ever. The first person shot by the enemy is the one
wearing rank. If you want to die quickly, wear your rank into battle.
This is an old lesson learned in the War between the States. The
"Pickets" snipers of that war learned quickly to shoot the highest
ranks first. This rule is a very logical assumption and for the life of
me I cannot figure out why a detail man such as Stephen Spielberg, of
all persons, would ignore such an important detail. For me, this detail
takes away much of the realism intended and I had to deal with it
another way.

******
30 August 2006
10
I just recently watched this film again for what must be the nearly
30th time, and I still find myself numb and shaking like I did leaving
the theater in 1998. I remember that night every time I watch this
movie, nobody spoke leaving the theater, a lot of people were crying,
and I believe everyone had the sick sensation in their stomach and
shaking hands I did.Personally I don't believe there has been a war movie that has ever
captured even closely what it's truly like to be engaged in actual
close fighting, and then came along this film. Yes, the characters are
fictional but the events their story takes place in are real and
portrayed as accurately as could be humanly possible to recreate on
film. The action is intense, and completely realistic and sickening to
imagine anyone could have endured such events and survived.I find myself crying during the D-Day invasion, and various other
points during the film. Most notably when Capt. Miller sits down on the
rock after they take the German nest and can't control his hands and
starts sobbing. Anyone who remains dry-eyed after Ryan asks his wife to
tell him he's lived a good life at the end must not have really
comprehended the film.I consider this technically the greatest war film ever, the set
decorations are unbelievable, the modified tanks are more than
convincing, the weapons 100% the real item, and little details abound
throughout the film (such as the shot surrendering soldiers during the
initial invasion actually being Czech soldiers who would have been
forced into the German army).Most importantly, I think this film is important to show in educational
settings. Yes, it's violent. Yes, it's full of language and even shows
U.S. soldiers in questionable moral situations (like shooting the
surrendering soldiers aforementioned). However, if it can educate
upcoming generations to what horrors war really presents to those
participating, then perhaps there will be hope for mankind after all.
When my daughter inevitably comes home from school one day and asks me
what war is about, I plan to sit her down and show her this film, and
make her watch the entire movie no matter how uncomfortable she gets.My favorite Spielberg movie, and one of in not my favorite movies of
all time. I'd give it eleven stars if I could. This is one I'll watch
regularly until my grave.

******
16 August 2006
10
This movie owns.. I've watched it over 20 different times, and every
time, my heart is racing! They need to make another one like this! I
really like the first part, the whole Rushing up the beach and all that
is sweet as hell! but the best battle, by far in this movie, is the
last battle, with the bridge and the Alamo and the sniper! Lol that one
guy(the runner guy) is so scared all the time .. its great! and some
information about the guys in here! they are all 2nd rangers,
obviously, but, that runner is in the 29th Infantry Division .. I'm
saying this because, i play a Video game called Day of Defeat! and I'm
in a realism unit! if any of you want to check that out, the website is
29th.org *Salute* Pvt. Cavallo | 29th Infantry Division | 116th Regiment | 1st Battalion
| Charlie Company | 2nd Platoon, 2nd Squad

******
14 August 2006
10
Oh my god. This is such a good film. I can't explain what was shooting
through me as i watched this. I didn't think it would be this good!Honestly, Tom Hanks, as always, was astounding, Matt Damon, as always,
was amazing, and the supporting cast couldn't be more perfect!Spielbergs directing was on the nail, obviously going for a newsreel
approach, as in they were news Filmer's in the action and happened to
stay alive. I love the saturated colour, i love the simple story, i
love how emotional it is, even for a guy that has never cried at a
movie...me.As a screenwriter myself, the script was unbelievable, perfectly
capturing war.And on its own for its absolute magnificence, is the D-Day Landing, oh
my god, how good! I was on the edge of my seat. Definitely,
undoubtedly, one of the greatest action sequences EVER!The one annoying thing was that there were no British, seeing as tho i
am one, and we did actually do 2 thirds of D-Day, that irritated me.
But no matter, this is my favourite film of all time. Watch it. Please.

******
10 August 2006
10
Saving Private Ryan is the best movie i've seen. It shows what war was
like and what the men had to go through. Its about 8 men risking their
lives just to save one man. Steven Speilburg did an awesome job
directing this movie. I cant say one bad thing about this movie. I was
just amazed. I cant believe this isn't in the top ten of the top 250
movies. If you haven't seen this movie, you are missing out. This film
has a great cast, and a great director. The greatest war movie ever is
the best movie ever made. Speilburg does a very great job at recreating
the D-day scene. There is only one movie you have to see in your
lifetime and that is Saving Private Ryan. 10/10 stars.

******
20 July 2006
10
Saving Private Ryan may not be a completely accurate portrayal of the
western front in WW2, but it does have something in common with its
equally great descendant "Band of Brothers". What this film does is
make it feel like you are there: from Omaha Beach to Ramelle.. No other
film does that. Its almost as if they went back in time and filmed
this; its almost 'genuine'.One of the things that stand out most in
this film is the effects.You experience the sound of bullet
whizzes,explosions,and the eerie sound of approaching tanks on a quiet
little bombed out town. The film's opening scene has been billed as the
best D-Day scene of all time and it rightly deserves that.Now,there are a few historical inaccuracies people have noticed (such
as the Church tower in Ramelle which,according to German tactics,would
of have been destroyed as it would give an advantage to the enemy) but
I don't think it will detract from the film. The question this film
poses is if it is truly worth it to sacrifice the lives of many for one
person. I think with the current situation in Israel with the kidnapped
soldiers, this question has never been so apparent.So,although its not a great way to learn WW2 history,its a great way to
experience it.Like many others this film got me interested in the
period.

******
30 June 2006
10
Where do I begin? This instantly became my favorite War film. No other
film has done it the way Hanks and Speilburg did. It was just amazing.
Even though I didn't see it in theaters I was blown away with the
realism of it all. What makes this film so intense is that Speilburg
filmed it himself with small one-hand cameras to give you a first
person glance at the battle at hand. Even though it was nearly three
hours long it was simply amazing.The plot begins after the D-Day invasion when Captain John H. Miller,
Charlie company, second Rangers is given an assignment to take a squad
of eight behind enemy lines to rescue Prive James Ryan, 101st Airborn,
506th, whose three brothers were killed in combat during WWII. As
Miller leads his squad through occupied France, He begins to question
the mission and if what there doing is worth risking the lives of his
men.The reason why this movie did it for me was because its based on a true
story, where you cant mess anything up or your movie is shot.I recommend this movie to mature audiences because of the intensity,
and anyone who is interested in history and anyone whose not.

******
25 June 2006
10
This film supposed to be one of the most acclaimed movie made by Mr.
Spielber after E.T. you can see the improvement of the sound effect,
the reality of war that you can see to the other movie. I like this
movie because of the story. Its amazing how Mr. Spielberg got some big
actors to play to the characters he made.The battle in the beach is one of my favorite part in the movie, you
can see the reality and truth about the war.The other one is the part
of questioning their leader why 8 men risking their lives to save just
one. I've noticed that you will always follow the order or before you
obey. All actors was great such as Tom Hanks, Matt Damon specially Giobanni
Belluci and others. This movie is one of my all time favorite.

******
27 May 2006
10
This movie, by far, is my favorite. The terror and bravery you see in
the soldiers' eyes and feel in their hearts really brings out the
character in them. The acting for this this Saving Private Ryan was
astonishing. Spielberg has really outdone himself this time, as so with
Shindler's List. The cameras and sounds made you feel as if you were
part of the action. Tom Hanks played a great role as Cpt. Miller. I am
not the type of man to cry during movies, or ever have, but after
seeing this, I felt tears in my eyes. The intensity and emotional
aspects of this film made this film a favorite of mine and many others.
I salute all WW2 veterans and Vietnam Vets for their amazing bravery
and pride in our land. I spit on anyone who think this film was a waste
of money and was crappy, loud, and stupid. That think it is only a
bunch of men shooting guns nonstop. And frankly, to those of you who do
think that, I would even pee in your direction if you were on fire.

******
27 May 2006
10
I first saw SPR back in April of this year in my 11th grade History
class, and it stunned me. Even now I still get chills thinking of some
of the scenes. The opening landing on Omaha Beach and the scene where
Private Mellish (Adam Goldberg) gets stabbed were enough to give me
nightmares for weeks afterward.The sounds of battle were so real during the initial landing scene that
I covered my ears and put my head on my desk. It was as if me and my
classmates were storming the beach with the soldiers, getting shot at
and shooting back.Even so, I wanted to see it again, not for the blood and gore, but for
the characters. Wade was the one that I identified with the most; the
kindly medic would do anything to save a soldier, even when he was
already gone. The two parts that really have stuck with me are the
scenes where Medic Wade and Private Mellish die, mainly because those
are my favorite characters (yay for Giovanni Ribisi and Adam
Goldberg!!).Wade's scene had me in tears; it was so touching how they were trying
to save him. Even as he was going into shock and hallucinating, they
kept up a steady flow of chatter to distract him as they put pressure
on the wounds; it made me cry even more as I heard what Jackson was
whispering to him as Wade was fading out of consciousness: "shhhhhh,
you'll be alright, Wade shhhhhh". It was beautifully tragic how
Jackson comforted him in his last moments, whispering to him and
rubbing his forehead.And the other scene (Mellish's death) was an absolute knockout. He's
fighting this German SS soldier guy, and he gets overpowered and pinned
to the floor. As the soldier starts to kill him, Mellish pleads for his
life, and do you know what that soldier does next? HE SOOTHES HIM AS HE
STABS HIM TO DEATH! "Give in . . . you have no other choice ... make it
easier for both of us...the war is over for you. Shhh. Rest now...
shhhhhhhh, it's easier for you this way" That one scene made me so sad
and angry at Upham for being a coward and not helping Mellish that I
wanted to break something.Everyone in my class thought Corporal Upham was a cowardly bastard who
should have been shot when they got a chance, and I agreed with them.
But I could also identify with him. He was relatively new to combat and
inexperienced, scared of what he had to do. If I were him I'd be scared
too.This movie has shown me what war is really like; it's hell on Earth.
The glossed over Hollywood fluff of war movies of the past is dead to
me. I've always been a very empathetic person, and I was warned before
watching this that it would be very VERY gory, and if I needed to, I
could step out and get a drink of water. I didn't leave. I watched
through clasped hands, biting my lip to keep from crying; I didn't
close my eyes to the horror.I would have to say that EVERY high school student in the United States
should see this movie; if not all of it, they should at least watch the
opening beach landing scene. Teens these days are so desensitized to
violence that they don't know what real violence is. This movie will
change their minds. I know it changed mine.

******
24 May 2006
10
The story raises hard moral questions relating to the relative value of
human lives and the overwhelming debt that may be felt by those who
benefit when others sacrifice. But the movie falls short of excellence
because it doesn't so much explore these issues as finesse them in an
action-filled climax.I first watched this movie on the day it came out on the cinema and
since then i have not seen a better made film, This is without doubt
the best war movie of all time and one of the best movies ever. Tom
hanks gives one of the best Performance i have seen him give and the
other actors give a brilliant Performances.

******
1 May 2006
9
This is a truly awesome film in terms of special effects and it really
makes you feel like you are in the action. This is the closest i have
seen to any war film in getting you feeling you are actually their,
sounds special effects and visual experience is superb (although the
video footage quality on DVD doesn't look so good on a larger screen
for some reason).Excellent DVD demo disk, the landing sequence at the beginning is
simply breath-taking and really shows you what they went through. The
use of sound is amazing, with bullets whistling past you .."Band of brothers" is pretty much the same but slower in pace due to
the TV series length.Verdict:- Fantastic, a must own Film to showcase visual effects and
surround sound systems.

******
9 April 2006
10
I believe that Saving Private Ryan is a wonderful melancholy story of
basically true events/acts in history. Having researched the German WW2
army specifically and WW2 in general I found the uniforms flawless, and
the tactics in which the Germans fought to be relatively correct! Most
if not all of Saving Private Ryan is great acting in which leads most
into believing it is what most military men would due in world war two.
I personally think that this movie would be a perfect thing for people
to believe is correct. This movie shows that war is a lot more gruesome
than most think. Parents if u have a child that thinks a life in the
military would be nice, or loves collecting war militaria or anything
related I believe no matter what the rating parents should show there
child this and tell war is even worse than this film a lot worse.

******
7 April 2006
10
flawless. That's the one word i would use to describe this film. I've
never seen anything like it, it was definitely written by someone in
the war and with respect for those who served in World War II. The
acting is perfect and every bit of it is exactly how my grandparents
describe war. If your seeing this not for the storyline, but for the
violence, then shame on you. I am rarely touched by movies, but this
touched me, especially the ending. Every battle scene is brilliantly
played out and every actor does a brilliant job. If you haven't seen
this movie, then you better get off your computer and run out and go
see it. It is by far the best war movie ever made and a classic.

******
2 April 2006
10
Tom Hanks gives an excellent portrayal of Captain John H. Miller the
leader of the rescue mission sent to take Private Ryan home. The fight
scenes where also superb i felt like i was in an actual battle
situation even though i was only wacthing it. the battle on the bridge
is also great and the camera work when captain John Miller dies is
excellent. Overall a great story with superb casting and i don't think
i will be able to find anything wrong with it. I felt i was there and
most films don't drag me in like that. Great work by Spielberg. Glad to
see he has made better films than ET and Jurassic park. Try Schindlers
list. superb.

******
19 March 2006
10
Currently the best movie made about any war. Since its release it has
been inevitably used as the standard by which other war movies are
judged, including (unfairly) movies that were made decades before it.The battle scenes are horrifyingly realistic and the performances are
exceptional. It is unbelievable that this film was nominated for the
Academy Award for Best Picture, but lost to Shakespeare In Love.The only criticism I have about this film is how quickly and easily CPT
Miller's unit made it across the beach and up the bluff at Omaha Beach.
The carnage and amount of casualties were pretty realistic, but in
reality Company C of the 2nd Ranger Battalion took over an hour to
reach the crest. After reaching the top they still had hours of hard
fighting before any significant area was secure.

******
18 March 2006
10
When you think of bloody, horrible wars you think of Vietnam, maybe
Korea. When you think of World War II, you picture Bob Hope
entertaining the troops, or people back in the states dancing to Glenn
Miller. Saving Private Ryan shows what World War II, the most defining
war in human history, was really like. The D-Day invasion of World War
II, was to decide the future of the world; fascist, or democratic.
Would the world be free, or enslaved by Nazis? D DAY, NORMANDY France
1944- an American squadron is looking for a missing comrade. The movie
opens with a 20- minute war sequence with Captain John Miller's unit
landing on Omaha Beach, and trying to push the Germans further east to
liberate Western Europe. Even though the allies win this battle, body
parts and blood is everywhere. This film is full of graphic violence
and gore.Then the film shifts back to a government clerical office where
secretaries are typing condolence letters to the mothers who lost sons
in battle. It is noticed that Mrs. Ryan of Iowa has lost three of four
sons in the D Day invasion. Brought to the attention of army brass,
they decide that the US army must rescue James Francis Ryan, Mrs.
Ryan's only remaining son.Finding Private Ryan is like looking for a needle in a haystack for
Captain Miller's squadron. At times morale is very low. You see the
difference in personalities of Privates Jackson and Reiben. Jackson is
a fighter, a war- monger, who doesn't care why he's there. He just
wants to please his commander, and kill the Germans. Reiben on the
other hand is wary, cautious, and even somewhat belligerent. About
two-thirds of the way though the story, Reiben is at odds with Miller
on the release of a German POW, and even threatens to go AWOL, but he
along with Jackson fights with honor and bravery in the final battle.After days of searching for Private Ryan, Captain Miller's unit finally
finds him guarding a strategically important bridge with a lost
squadron. Private Ryan does not want to leave his troupe, considering
them the only brothers he has left. This leads to a suspenseful climax.When a large German battalion spots the two American units guarding the
bridge, fighting breaks out. Who will survive this horrible war? The
Americans appear outnumbered. Will they be able to save Private Ryan
from dying like his three brothers? Will Mrs. Ryan lose her last son in
this war? Saving Private Ryan, another spectacular film by Steven
Spielberg, is one of the greatest war movies ever made. It was
nominated for Best Picture. Best Director Oscar went to Steven
Spielberg. Art Direction and Cinematography in the film is top notch,
as are the beautifully choreographed fight scenes, which are dramatic,
suspenseful, and ultra-realistic.

******
11 March 2006
10
I posted my original comments on this film the day it first hit the
American screens. I will never forget the experience of seeing this
film. It was 11 a.m. on a beautiful sunny day. Me(at the time a 35 yr
woman) and about 25 old men ( I am assuming many WWII vets) sat in that
darkened theatre and watched this incredible film. When the lights came
back on we all sat stunned and then filed out into the daylight, all of
us wiping the tears from our faces, some of the men very emotionally
moved and crying in their seats.My dad was a WWII radioman in the Navy, his brother was a ship
commander, the other in the National Guard. When pressed, my dad would
tell me some stories of his time in service. Seeing this film and the
faces of those old guys in the theatre helps me understand why dad
never talked too much about it. It was that devastating a film, that
devastating a time.I was in another room last night, when I heard the familiar sounds of
the landing at Omaha Beach coming from the living room t.v. For about
the 30th time I was drawn to watch those intense opening scenes, once
again drawn into the action. Just watching that first intense half
hour, the bodies washing up in the blood red waves, the look in Tom
Hanks eyes, the echoey silence surrounding Barry Pepper as he makes to
shoot the first sniper to open Dog 1, well I was again knocked back
with emotion. I again was so very impressed at how Spileberg did so
much, so well in this film; from the distinctive camera work, to the
small details like the drops of blood on the camera lens, to assembling
the fine team of actors that brought such life to this film and such
feeling for their deaths, to the incredible, adrenalized battle
sequences at beginning and end, to the very simple moments throughout
and the stories of the men.I just had to write again, so many years later, to say I really admire
this film. It is important, not only from the perspective of film
appreciation, but also for the genuine and heartfelt way it tells of
one of the most important times in American history and the very brave
men who sacrificed so much.

******
4 March 2006
10
The beach scene was gory and the most realistic any war movie has been,
it captures the ultimate horrors of war. The story maybe a little silly
but anyway forget about that this is an extraordinary war film full of
thrills and surprises. Excellent scenes of battle Tom Hanks acts his
very best in this.This film can be disturbing to some, but this is a must have for war
film lovers. The accuracy of the film is great to the uniforms to the
guns and the tanks! I love this film and have watched it many times and
it never gets boring for me.Ideas: 9.0 Effects: 9.3 Acting: 9.1 story: 5.0 OVERALL: 9.9

******
3 February 2006
10
I am a harsh critic of movies. I bash everything. There is rarely a
movie that I can sit down and watch and enjoy because most are crude
and bland. I never pay attention to the hype, I don't care.I judge a
movie on what it is about, what it is portraying, and how well it is
made. Before I saw it, Saving Private Ryan didn't interest me. I liked
dramas and war flicks and stories but I was just never interested in
seeing Saving Private Ryan because of the title.One day however my mother rented the flick and I decided to watch it.
Man....the opening scene was a shocker. It also really showed how that
day went down. I find it fascinating how Capt. John Miller takes
charge. A soldier asks him, "Where's the rallying point?" Miller
responds,"Anywhere but here". I mean thats how you feel right there,
like they need to get off that forsaken beach. It's neat how you get to
see the characters in action on the beach before you even get into the
main plot. So many different things happen in the movie. I pay
attention and every time I watch it I see something new. I've probably
seen it 20-30 times. I don't know why anyone would want to bash it. It
is well directed, and well acted. It takes place during a time that
should be well respected. It wasn't weak because it left so much of the
other fighting in the war out. It is called "Saving Private Ryan", not
"the Documentary of World War 2". Even though it is almost like a
documentary. It's about a mission that is unlike other missions. It's
about finding a soldier, and getting him the hell out of there. It's
not about fighting with the British to save France and the whole Allied
powers from Hitler. It was based on something smaller, but at the same
time larger. A mother's love for her son, and how even in the military
they respect that. We all got mothers and how terrible would they feel
if they lost all their son's. even Cpt. Miller's squad was taught
respect from the matter. They questioned it and some disagreed and sure
they would rather be out fighting the war, but that was their orders,
and they had to follow. After all, if they found Ryan, and made it out
of that forsaken crap whole of a mess, maybe then they would all earn
the right to go home. Anyway I would just like to say I think all the characters are great.
It was Vin Diesel's best movie, I think his only good movie even though
he was the first of Miller's men to die. Pvt. Jackson, I think he is
many people's favorite. The way he takes down the sniper that kills
Caparzo (Diesel) and battles in the Church tower at the battle for the
bridge. Nothing can describe the way Tom Hanks reacts when he see's the
Church tower get hit by the tank round. He feels sorrow, because of the
loss of such a fine sniper, but he just keeps shooting. I like how
Reiben doesn't care about the mission at first and even steps out of
line. He learns what it's all about though, and he even saves Ryan at
the end from a tank. Sgt. Horvath, what a great actor. Tom Siezmore.
Hanks couldn't ask for a better partner. You can really feel the
relationship between Miller and Horvath. Like when Capt. Miller steps
out to create a diversion and Machine gun Fire rains down but Miller
gets out of the way in time and Horvath says,"Captain if your Mother
saw you do that she's be very upset." Then Hanks replies,"I thought you
were my mother". Lol.I believe out of all the men in Miller's squad
Horvath is hit by the most rounds. He showed the mentality of a brave
soldier that died for his men. Obviously Upham was the sensitive type,
that finally killed someone in the end. Mellish portrayed a good
soldier, that did also seem a bit sensitive, as he cries while finding
a Hitler Youth Knife.(He is Jewish so I guess he's not really
sensitive, just effected greatly by the events because of his
ethnicity) Of course Wade was also well portrayed. When he died it was
the saddest. Anyway, in the end, Captain John Miller tries to blow up the bridge but
a tank round launches debris and sends everything into chaos. Miller
then tries to retrieve the detonator and is shot on the bridge where he
falls. He then sits up and takes his pistol out and starts shooting at
the tank that is about to cross the bridge. The tank explodes and in
amazement Miller looks up to see the "Angels on our shoulders" P51 tank
busters fly over head. Then with his last breath he says to Ryan
"James, earn this.....earn it" And then it goes to James as an old man
in the memorial in France with thousands of crosses. And he is of
course kneeling down in front of Miller's cross with the rest of
Miller's squad's crosses trying to make peace with their sacrifice for
his life. James then looks at his wife and says, "Tell me I've lead a
good life, tell me I'm a good man" Then She replies,"You are" And it
really makes me think about how I should live, that those died to save
me. That I need to be a good man, and respect what I have because so
many others lost their lives, just so I could go home. To wrap it up, Saving Private Ryan had everything. Some comedy, drama,
love, action, and even some good looking dames. You can't deny that
James Ryan's daughter's were some good looking ladies. Anyway I didn't
know a movie could be that good until I saw Saving Private Ryan. Go
Stephen Spielberg!

******
29 January 2006
10
Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan is clearly one of the most
praised war movies so far. It is an account of World War Two from the
perspective of Captain John H. Miller and his squad on their mission to
save one man, Private James Francis Ryan, who is the surviving brother
of three. Each soldier questions the initiative and reasoning behind
saving one man. Is it worth it to save man and risk the lives of many
soldiers? The answer is obvious by the end of the movie. The story is
told in a third person omniscient point of view with a focus on Captain
Miller (Tom Hanks), Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore), Private Reiben
(Edward Burns), Private Jackson, Private Mellish, Private Caparzo (Vin
Diesel) and T-4 medic Irwin Wade. The most breathtaking scene opens
with the soldiers moving on Normandy beach on 6 June 1944. The gate on
the boat drops down and releases a surge of chaos. As the viewer sees
three or four soldiers drown they begin to realize that this movie is
taking them for an emotional ride. This scene is not drawn from pure
Hollywood imagination; it is a highly accurate account of any soldier's
experience during D-Day. Captain Miller and his squad are assigned to
find Private James Ryan so he can go back home. Miller's squad is
forced to put away all of their morals and philosophies in order to do
their job. It is apparent that Miller has a different initiative at
first when he's given the mission. He was promised a chance to go home
and see his wife; a chance most any man would not give up, but when he
actually found Private Ryan it seems that he was glad to have saved
him. This is the perfect example of self-sacrifice during world war
two. Not only were men and woman forced to give of themselves to save
the land, but they were also forced to save each other.

******
16 December 2005
10
Best film I've ever seen, I've seen it so many times and i never get
bored. touching, action filled and so true this film is the best and
greatest film to be made in a long time! This is one of the true
masterpiece's of our time, I've herd people saying that all these
modern war films our better but I still stick to the old, true,
original classics. This is one of Spielberg's greatest films to be
produced. A timeless classic.I hadn't seen it in quite awhile, today my
brother put it on and i just sat, and watched not caring about anything
else. If u haven't seen it, go now.10/10

******
16 December 2005
10
One of the best movies ever made. The scenes made me live it for the
entire film. The characters seemed so real, they made us feel and touch
them, never blinked for a moment, every time I see this movie, I feel
the same feelings I had the first time. Mr. Tom Hanks played his role
like no one can, he made us feel that he is that ordinary guy, who
found him self in a middle of the war, not wanting to kill any body,
but his duties made him do it, and when he can let any one go, he does,
he is a great actor. And the director Mr. Steven Spellberg, is a great
director, I have never seen anything not good for him. All the other
guys were great; I loved the sniper guy, and was very angry when he
died. Excellent job for all.

******
24 November 2005
9
This was an excellent movie, rich in character development, well
performed roles and topped off with a compelling theme. I LOVED the
irony of eight men sent to save one.Some say the Omaha landing portrayal was unrealistic, but I'd like to
see someone pull off the miracle of a better Omaha scene than SPR's. It
was as accurate as film can capture that violent moment. You can either
deal with that, or complain as if action is all that matters.This story is essentially about the characters (normal people in
extraordinary circumstances). The war, believe it or not IS BACKGROUND.
This story belongs to the nine main characters; not the entire war
effort. This is why only American's are portrayed. If you're looking
for "The Longest Day" setup, why don't you check out 'Cliches R' Us'?
Anyhow, this is why we don't see the other allied nations in this
movie. Spielburg wasn't saying "American's did all the work." The story
is about soldiers who happened to be Americans. Case closed.Some argue the story is too one sided, portraying all Germans as "Dirty
Animals". However, there are many segments that suggest this isn't the
case. The Americans act cruel in some scenes, and Germans do the same
in others. It was fair to both sides. There was nothing enthusiastic in
the scene where the two German prisoners are executed. Ultimately we
must remember this movie is in the American POV. When Wade and Kaparzo
died, we lost two of the films main characters. Of course their death
scenes were to be more emotional than that of some 'extra' playing a
German.As far as flaws go, there are only two worthy of mention.In the scene where Tom Hanks takes out three men with his Thompson (a
minute before he meets Ryan), the very last German dies long after the
tommy gun's sound effect expires.In the scene where Jackson is in the church tower (making his final
kills before he dies), he fires seven to eight shots with the
Springfield WITHOUT RELOADING. The Springfield 1903 never held more
than five bullets in any of its many modified models.

******
23 November 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan is probably the best war movie ever made!
Everything about this film is awesome, including the acting, the
special effects, and the music. What make's this film different from
other war movies? It has no music when they're fighting, of course!
This only makes it more realistic, and it seems like Steven Spielberg
will never run out of ideas!The beginning is quite disturbing and graphic, but the special effects
were amazing when they filmed it! This movie is also really sad,
probably one of the saddest movies I've ever seen, but that doesn't
make it bad, at all. I haven't seen many war movies, but I bet Saving
Pvt. Ryan and Schindler's List are his best. I am a huge fan of Steven
Spielberg films, and this is my favorite of his movies. What really makes this film good are probably it's acting and special
effects. Tom Hanks did an excellent job acting out John Miller in the
movie, like always acting as if it was really happening. Everyone else
in the film is nearly as good as Tom Hanks, and they all act like real
soldiers. The special effects are what bring this movie to the top. The
special effects make this movie brutal and realistic, and I've never
seen a film that's more graphic.This movie is a must see. If you love Steven Spielberg films, and war
movies, see it!

******
13 November 2005
10
The above, ^, is a quote by the famous Union general William T.
Sherman. Saving Private Ryan shows the hell, fog, and confusion of war.
What else can I say? How about Based on a true story? It was. In the
brief scene with General Marshall, where he reads a letter to a Mrs.
Nieland in Boston, one signed by Abraham Lincoln, it's not General
Marshall, played by Dale Dye, a former Marine captain, who's reading
it. It's John de Lancie, Star Trek's Q, who's the uncredited letter
reader. It opens with an older Ryan and his family at the American
cemetery in Normandy. He's at the grave of Captain John H. Miller, the
man who saved his life, in Normandy in 1944. So what's the message of
Saving Private Ryan? Since I opened this review with a quote from
General Sherman, why don't I close it with one from the Book of John?
"Greater love hath no man than this: That he lay down his life for his
friends." Maybe I should paraphrase the epitaph on an unknown Marine
who died on Guadalcanal. "When he gets to heaven, to St. Peter he will
tell: 'Another soldier reporting, sir. I've served my time in hell."

******
12 November 2005
10
You know why this is the best war film of all time? Because Spielberg
puts us right in the midst of the war! We experience the unvarnished,
direct, and all the nitty-gritty details that went on in battle. I
can't think of any other film of the same genre which has done this. He
does this by using shaky POV camera shots, showing us graphic images of
soldiers getting blown up or getting shot, brutal sound effects, etc.
We also get a solid storyline with an actual plot. Our heroes have a
goal and a mission to complete (besides winning the war). After a
grueling 20-minute opening that depicts the horrors that went on D-Day,
Capt. Miller and his crew of soldiers are assigned to rescue private
Ryan, a paratrooper lost behind enemy lines. His three brothers have
just been killed in action and the Army wants to send him home. This
leads Capt. Miller and his crew to undertake a dangerous task with an
uncertain outcome.Tom Hanks and company are excellent. They all give convincing and
rather low-key performances. Giovanni Ribisi and Matt Damon are
particular standouts. Another thing I loved about the film was the
pacing. The balance between the ghastly battle scenes and the quiet
scenes which gives us time to get to know our heroes is perfect. You
hardly notice that it's a 2 hr and 50 min film. The photography by
Janusz Kaminski is incredibly distinctive. It has this "washed-out"
look which makes it look like an old war newsreel. John Williams'
musical score is also appropriately effective. It's not his most
memorable nor as haunting like the one he did for Schindler's List but
good enough to appreciate. Without a doubt, all this wouldn't have been
achieved if it wasn't for Steven Spielberg's expertise. Once again, he
shows us his versatility and mastery as a director to let audiences
experience a story rather than just see it. I can live with the fact
that the film didn't win an Oscar for Best Picture but it would have
been an injustice if he hadn't won for Best Director. The best war film
of all time and one of the best films of the 1990's!

******
11 November 2005
10
Not many movies can move me to tears in the first 2 minutes of it's
beginning, but this one does. The quite, shaky steps of the aged Priv.
Ryan thru the Normandy grave site has an effect like no other war movie
has. Most viewers just comment on the gore and horror of the landing
scene, but there is so much more to this movie than the violence and
depravity of battle. It brings to light such a sacrifice our
grandfathers made that we often take for granted. I appeal to anyone
who still has relative who fought in WW II to listen to their story,
record it and preserve their memories for future reference. Every day
these veterans are dying off, please hear their story before it's lost
in time.

******
28 September 2005
8
It's nice to see a film that depicts the value of human life as fragile
as it actually is, during times or war. This movie, with its'
phenomenal cast, brings the characters in the movie to life, and sends
a message to the audience that war is, in fact, unpleasant. This team
of Army rangers set off to save the life of one man; tells the story of
their journey and how hope is a driving force that keeps the team
alive. With its realistic war violence sequences, the movie does a good
job at making the audience feel compassion and empathy, as though part
of the story themselves. This was the most memorable movie I've ever
seen to this day.

******
20 August 2005
7
Steven Spielberg's war time drama Saving Private Ryan, often get's
recognition as the greatest war film ever. I think that opinion is
wrong, but it certainly may be the most realistically shot, hard edged
war film of all time. It is a masterpiece, not without its strong
points, yet certainly not without a number of flaws that prevent this
from being a true classic, any which way you bend it.The story starts out with an elderly man visiting the Arlington
National Cemetery, visiting his fallen comrades of 60+ years. The movie
takes place around the events of D-Day, June 6, 1944, starting with a
captivating and harrowing battle sequence showing us young ones, such
as myself, just what it may have been like in WWII combat. The gore,
violence, and cries are all very real, and little is left to the
audience's imagination, we can even get a taste of what the characters
are thinking and/or seeing.After the 20 minute battle sequence, we find that a boy, Pvt. James
Ryan, has lost all 3 of his brothers, and by government orders, he is
forced to leave combat and return home. Most of the film focuses around
the troop of American soldiers who go through hell to find him.After the Normandy scene, the plot rarely really thickens, and arguably
is no longer as convincing or as interesting. The script is painfully
cliché and average, and there really isn't much in the way of character
development. Spielberg makes the most out of what he's given,
occasionally going for the visual eye candy, and occasionally slowing
the pace down and attempting to give the film some serious emotional
momentum.Spielberg attempts to show both sides of the war, but too often falls
back on his own personal bias, attempting to cause the audience to
emotionally stir and get their juices flowing, often when there's not
much juice to flow and not many emotions to be stirred. Sometimes he
tries to tackle the challenge of making a mountain from a mole hill.
These scenes occasionally work, yet they too often feel forced and
empty, such as the over done, unequivocal Allie death scenes, which try
too hard to force a response from the audience's mouthes.The story takes a few jolts, and is never really predictable, despite
the often clichéd telling of the going-ons, but after awhile it seems a
bit two dimensional.One thing I did like was the use of the character of Ryan {until the
end} as a metaphor. Spielberg uses his name as a metaphor at times for
the freedom these men might never again see, freedom they might never
find again. Ryan represents peace, and they just can't find it, not
even amongst themselves. As I said, the film is at times visually
stunning, and the acting performances really help in some cases to
bring life to otherwise dead characters. Tom Hanks is riveting as
usual, refusing to be held back by the dulled script.The very ending actually left me bitterly disappointed. Its not that I
was appalled by the patriotic message, Spielberg is perfectly entitled
to make a film that celebrates the American dream of Freedom, but I was
mad that the film once again decided to tell/show us everything. That's
the problem. Far too often Saving Private Ryan shows us too much, not
leaving anything up to our imaginations. As a war film, it should show
us a lot, but the overall messages in the film are whetted down by
further scenes that could have worked better if they had remained out
of the film. The ending could have worked on several different levels,
but instead Spielberg almost tarnishes the would be message of the
film, by showing an emotional 5 minute end scene with elderly Ryan and
his family. I was a bit disappointed with what Spielberg left, or
rather didn't leave, up to us, the audience to decide for ourselves. The film is at times guilty of shoving attained beliefs down our
throat. But Saving Private Ryan still has plenty of good, heartfelt
moments that interlude over the bad, and for that it still works as a
movie, but certainly suffers from several near fatal flaws.7/10

******
5 June 2005
8
This Academy Award Winning Best Picture of 1998 contains the grittiest,
most graphic war scenes I've ever seen on film. On top of that, the
film quality is pristine and the high-speed equipment used to shoot the
movie is nothing short of groundbreaking in the war genre. That being
the case, does the artistic quality of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN
automatically overshadow/surpass the other movies of 1998 like American
History X or Run Lola Run for example? Perhaps so.Still, as I attribute the entire 8 stars to artistic merit, the last
two gaping empty stars must be addressed. The premise that the movie is
based upon, namely the mission of bringing back one soldier to his
mother mandated by the war department, is simply something I cannot
swallow. What's the word I want to use to describe how I feel about the
impetus for the movie? It's not cheesy, nor is it saccharine. I feel as
if it's an insult to my intelligence. Let me spell this out word for
word...First of all, I simply don't understand why history has been racked
with so many wars. I'm not rabidly anti-war per Se. I just want to
understand why the people of one nation collectively want to kill the
people of another nation. IMDb is not the place to discuss such issues
at length, so let's assume for now that wars are fought for any of a
million reasons: defense, propagation of freedom, power, resources,
territory, maybe the utter lack of something better to do.Now here is my gripe with SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, which otherwise is a
masterpiece. If the war department is focusing all of its energy and
machinery on the above mentioned war objectives, is it plausible for
them to really care about one kid or his mother? I am curious how the
parents of American soldiers killed in Iraq feel when they watch this
movie. I just cannot for one second believe that the American defense
department would go to such lengths for any single individual.Rather than swallow this implausible premise hook line and sinker, I
would more enjoy a film that exposes the real modus operandi behind
bloodthirsty war machinery. Platoon or Apocalypse Now are considered
classics, and rightly so given the grimy mood each depicts. But despite
is technologically phenomenal production, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is too
heavy with the flag-waving patriotic Dreamworks score and tells a story
you'd only find off the shelves of Disney Corporation -- one that is
sugar-coated at the core and just plain fantasy.JYjimboduck-dot-com

******
28 January 2005
7
A visceral and engaging film, with powerful battle scenes, that
presents a factually- and emotionally-biased view of the war. It's a
polished endeavour, worth watching, but it loses marks because
Spielberg just *has* to patronise the audience by showing Ryan as an
old man. Had he not done so, I think that the movie would have been far
more effective as both a creative endeavour and a moral message.The film is clearly designed with the American public in mind - there
are no British or other Allied forces at all in the movie, and the
French civilians and German soldiers are essentially stereotypes. The
film itself is both well-scripted and -cast, but I can't help but feel
that its protagonists are essentially precisely deployed
character-types designed to elicit set emotional responses in the
audience. The lack of emotional ambivalence in its story and characters
lends a sense of superficiality to the whole affair that makes the
picture, in my mind, remarkably forgettable.I would say that the movie is a fine example of Hollywood product. It
has all the necessary elements of a classic film. However, scratch the
glossy surface and I think one will find a disappointing lack of depth
and a disappointingly familiar lack of respect, on Spielberg's part,
for the audience's ability to think for itself.

******
19 January 2005
6
I have mixed feelings about this movie. While it is clearly one of the
better WW2-movies to come out the last decades it must still be one of
the most overrated films ever.A small group of soldiers set out to find a paratrooper, private Ryan,
who has landed behind enemy lines in Normandy. The reason is that Ryans
brothers have all died in the war and now the army will try to bring
Ryan home so that at least one son in the family can be brought home to
his mother alive.I said in the beginning of this review that this movie is overrated.
And i stand by that comment. This movie has received a rating of over 8
here on IMDb which i think is preposterous. What this movie has that
makes it very good (although not great) is the battle scenes. They are
simply the best i have ever seen. The adrenaline rush, the shaky
close-ups, the gore. Seldom has the complete terror of battle been
captured this well. Those scenes are worth a rating of 10. But the rest
of the movie? That is where the problems begin. Because the story is
rather dull and unbelievable. And the pace is at times very slow. But
more than anything the characters disturb me. They act like idiots. I
don't know if the soldiers in World War 2 acted this stupid, or if this
is some strange addition by director Steven Spielberg.My point in the end is that this movie contain great elements, but they
alone do not make this a great movie. When all is said and done i give
this movie a rating of 6, that could have been 8 if the story had been
stronger and the characters more believable.

******
5 November 2004
5
I still don't understand today, why this film got such excellent
reviews.'Saving Private Ryan' was one of the worst war films I have
ever seen in my life. This film had no proper storyline and plot, as it
was a load of Hollywood Hype that tried to come across as deep and
dramatic, but in actual fact, was shallow and disappointing. What was
the point of all those soldiers dying in Combat, only to find/save one
soldier, and that when they found him, he didn't want to come back home
with them. Yes, this film had its dramatic scenes, like at the
beginning of the film when old Private Ryan was crying at his friends
gravestone, but even the way that scene was portrayed, I found it was
corny and melodramatic. Overall, this film completely dragged-on, as it
had bad editing, a pathetic dialogue and had a terrible conclusion.

******
13 October 2004
7
This is, of course, a popular film. I happen to own this DVD, but at
the same time there are only a few scenes that stick out as spectacular
in the genre of war films. The few well done battle scenes were the
reason I bought this, but some of the glaring faults are what would
lead me to give this film a 7 out of 10, rather than 10 out of 10 as
productions like Black Hawk Down and even Band of Brothers deserve.First, one of the most obvious problems with the film starts right in
the opening scene. We see all these dirty faced, rugged looking men on
their way into what is certainly the scariest moment of their lives.
Then suddenly we see baby-face Tom Hanks with his smooth skin clean
shaven and groomed like the son of a politician. It creates a contrast
right there in the opening scene that is disruptive to the mood and
becomes disruptive later on in the film as well. Don't get me wrong.
Tom Hanks is a great actor, but he looked 100 times more rugged in
Castaway as he did in this film.Secondly, was Vin Diesel. OK, so people like him. Don't get me wrong
here either. I'm not going to claim that he lacks intelligence outside
of his films, although I know he did drop out of college but that's not
relevant. However, in his films it seems like he always plays
characters who don't display an IQ higher than 70. I'm not so sure this
is how the characters were written as much as it is how he plays the
roles. His acting is unnatural, stiff, forced, and lacks realism. He
just comes off idiotic in all of his movies. He became known in the
film world for a film he wrote and directed, I believe. Maybe he should
try his hand at that instead of trying to be the next Arnold
Swartzenegger, because he's not buff enough and he's too awkward as an
actor to play that role.Third, as I said before, the film has some great battle scenes, which
is why I bought the DVD, but we have these moments that would best be
described as superficial moments in the film. For example, these
moments that seem like they are in place only to demonstrate Tom Hanks
witticism, or moments that make the Nazi soldiers like idiots. Those
scenes seemed unrealistic and annoying. Contrast this with Band of
Brothers and you'll see what I mean. It's a serious film. Not a film
that requires moments of dry humor. Spielberg dropped the ball on those
aspects of the film.Good film, but as a war film, not nearly as good as Band of Brothers,
Platoon, or Black Hawk Down.

******
6 June 2004
9

Finally got round to watching Saving Private Ryan in commemoration of the
60th anniversary of D-Day.  It's quite an impressive film, sustaining a long
running time with few weak moments, and presenting an entirely new level of
realism in the depiction of the battles.  The violence is quite shocking,
and it's not often you can say that given the exceptionally high level to
which our depiction of and tolerance of violence has been pushed in recent
years.One thing that bothered me though was that the film-makers appeared to be
unaware that quite a few non-Americans were involved in the D-Day push too. 
No disrespect to those brave Americans that gave their lives, but it would
have been nice to have the film acknowledge the sacrifice of numerous other
countries too.


******
27 April 2004
10

          War is Hell! This movie rocked. The opening scene of the movie was
the best on the Omaha Beach. The action kicked ass and the battles of the
entire film was phenomenal but not only that the plot was as great as can
be. About Capt. John Miller and seven soldiers looking for just one other
soldier who all of his brothers were killed and return him back home. The
movie was also deeply sad and I kept feeling sorry for the soldiers and I
always felt that I wanted to just go into the movie and fight for U.S. This
is the best war movie of all time and it will remain the same unless some
other comes up and overpass it but for now this is a masterpiece!!!10/10!!!Highly Recommend

******
26 April 2004
10

This movie is the best movie ever made depicting the World War II era. It is
the most realistic, violent, true to life depiction of what WWII was really
about. Most of the previous movies, romanticized the experience. This movie
gives you gritty, no nonsense look at exactly what the troops faced, from
their food, down to the vocabulary. You come to understand why most veterans
from this war, never mentioned what they experienced. It's about as close as
you can get to war without actually being in it. This movie does for WWII,
what Platoon did for Vietnam. I still can't see why this movie didn't get
Best Picture over "Shakesphere In Love". Spielberg did get Best Director,
but the movie should have won as well. This is a must see movie.

******
14 April 2004
10

Possible spoilers ahead...Saving Private Ryan is a movie about World War II.  In this it is not
original.  Hundreds or perhaps thousands of films have been made about this
subject.  What makes this film stand out besides the magnificent acting of
Tom Hanks (possibly his best role, and that's saying a lot) is the film's
plot.  A dozen men risk their life and put service to their country on hold
in order to retreive a single officer.  Not one that is crucial to the war
effort, indeed, not one that is even in enemy hands.  Just one that is the
last surviving son of a mother that has lost all her children in the war. 
The irony and contradictions of a dozen men risking their lives to locate
and retreive a single officer is almost paralyzing, and surely secures
Speilberg's masterpiece a place, in my opinion, among the finest movies ever
made.  Everything about this movie is spectacular, from the acting to the
effects, to the dramatic qualities.  Possibly the finest of all the World
War II films ever made.

******
12 April 2004
10

I've seen many war movies after that of Saving Private Ryan. It has been 6
years since the movie has been released and I still have not found a movie
that meets it's caliber.The movie has a combination of good story, and a exceptional fighting
scenes! Although some errors according to WWII might have been made, it is
still far more accurate than any half-ass movies we've seen after it i.e.
WindtalkersBasically an amazing war movie which should be on everyone's Top 10 war
movies list. I'm not exactly Spielberg's greatest fan, but after seeing
this
movie my respect for him has been increased greatly. 

******
3 April 2004
10

Saving Private Ryan is one of those films that keeps you speechless
throughout the whole thing. By far, one of Steven Spieldberg's best films
he
has ever made. The realism of this film was superb and had exceptional
acting. Tom Hanks gives, yet again, an exceptional performance. His
nomination for Best Actor showed how good an actor he really is. The plot
of
the movie is perfect. The mission is to save a man. You are able to do so
much with this kind of plot. The relationships between the soldiers
becomes
a key factor in this film. The triumph, the heartbreak, the relationships
and the heroism is the glue that keeps the film interesting and moving.
This
is one of my favorite films of all time. 

******
14 March 2004
7

This movie has a truly amazing opening 30 minutes. We follow Captain John
Miller (Hanks) and his men during the d-day landing. A lot of the techniques
used during this opening sequence have inspired many other directors since.The only trouble is the movie has a lot to live upto after the opening
sequence. We get down to the main story which is Miller's orders to find
Private Ryan and return him home to his mother who has lost all his brothers
in the war. Whilst the remainder of the movie is ok and Spielberg shows us
why he is a great director the rest of the movie never quite lives up to the
opening. 8/10. (10/10 for first 30 minutes then 7/10 for the
remainder)

******
10 February 2004
10

Can someone please explain to me how one of the greatest war movies ever
made, lost the best picture to a painfully boring and immensely inferior
movie like Shakespeare in love.  Ryan's war scenes were some of the best
ever filmed and Love was just uninteresting and hard to
follow.

******
10 February 2004
9

Quick and to the point...Great characters, wonderful story, gripping,
entertaining.  I've never really been as touched by a movie as with this
one.  The human sacrifice is overwhelming, yet non-gratuitous. Definitely
in
my top 10 all time.

******
10 December 2003
10

Saving Private Ryan is a graphic and intense war movie that portrays some
of
the realities of war. I'm no WW2 veteran but I do know that this film is
probably as close to war as we can really get without actually being
there.
The movie is very well done and in my opinion, should have won best
picture
in 1998. I know that some of you may not agree with me on this but for
those
who are on my side about this all know that this movie should be
remembered
by everyone that watches it. I highly suggest this movie to everyone who
wants to know what it was really like for those men in WW2. In fact, I
think
that everybody should watch it. Whether they want to or not. It should be
mandatory for people to watch this movie at least once in their lives just
to remind them that freedom is not for free. I still stick with my opinion
on saying that it is one of the greatest movies ever made. Actually you
know
what, it probably is the greatest movie ever made. No doubt about it.
10/10.


******
15 November 2003
10

This is one of the only war films ever that shows you the real brutality
of
war. Not only that, but this movie really defines it. I know other movies
include that but this one does it the best. You see war movies do not get
better than this one. It grips you so tight that you can almost feel the
terror that they would feel. my point is, this is speilberg at his
best,even
though it does not feel like one of his amazing movies.If you are a [Black
Hawk Down] fan,but have not seen this,go and watch it. It is a lot the
same,
but [Saving Private Ryan] is better. My score is
10/10

******
2 November 2003
7

I saw this movie is included in the Top 250 and to be quite honest, I just
don't understand why. The most realistic warmovie ever made? Perhaps because
of the special effects (those first 20 minutes are indeed horryfying) but
the sole reason why that is like that is just because "Saving private Ryan"
is the kind of warmovie they don't make any longer, but believe me, if "The
longest day" or any other warepic would have been made these days it would
have been exactly the same as this Spielbergmovie.
Surely not a bad movie at all, even worth your time (and even more than
that) but Spielberg tries a bit too hard to make it an anthem to those who
lost their live in one of the biggest tragedies the world has known, but
then again every war is a tragedy (I see no difference in a soldier dying in
France or somewhere in Palestina). Spielberg is not afraid to show the
cruelity of war and if you are softhearted you will close your eyes more
than once. Good movie, even a bit more than that but just don't overrate it
as well.

******
31 October 2003
9

Firstly, this film is not 'entertaining' in the way war films like Pearl
Harbour tried to be. This film attempts to re-create war as realistically as
possible, and, although I've never been in one myself, from what I hear it
is the best representation yet. By definition this means you cannot 'enjoy'
it like you would most films. The opening scene at the beach during D-day
was harrowing rather than enjoyable to watch. You don't find yourself on the
edge of your seat as bullets fly, you find yourself cringing and wondering
why on Earth people get driven to this. 
After this scene the film becomes less miserable and slightly more watchable
as an entertainment mechanism, but it never loses its realistic touch. Hanks
delivers a memorable if not slightly flawed performance, whilst the script
is interesting to listen to. 
In general, this is the first film I have come across that truly played on
my emotions and affected me, which is what it's meant to do. It is a
fantastic achievement in the sense that it finally begins to show people
just how real the horrors of war are. If you're looking for a nice night in
with an action film, don't watch this. If you want to see closer to the
truth, and appreciate truly great filmwork, watch it.

******
28 October 2003
9

This movie is the most intense movie I've seen in a long time. I couldn't
believe how incredible this movie was the first time I watched it and had
to
watch it a second time to just realize I was watching possibly the
greatest
movie of all time. During the scene on Omaha beach at the beginning, I
couldn't believe what I was watching. You are there and you feel as if
you're being shot at with all those men. I absolutely love this movie, and
while Shakespeare in Love is Oscar material as well, Saving Private Ryan
is
far superior. I cried like I never have before, during the scene where
Wade
is killed as they charge up the hill. I don't think any movie has done to
me
what this one did. This movie shows the viewer the hell that war is and
puts
the viewer through it as well. The film will definitely be added to the
greatest films of all time in the future, and it rightfully deserves to be
high on the list. If you have the stomache to handle this movie and are
ready before it begins to be put through an emotional rollercoaster,
please,
please watch this movie. Older children should watch this movie so they're
shown what the men of WWll went through. I won't go on anymore because I
just can't recommend this movie to you enough. I vote it the best film of
the 90's.
don't's vote: 9(possibly
10)/10

******
21 October 2003
10

For better or worse, Saving Private Ryan has got to be the greatest war
movie ever filmed. Far from being some artsy fartsy effort. This film is as
hardcore as they come. The 20 minute beach landing scene should show you
that this film isn't for the faint hearted. Spielberg has really outdone
himself with this movie.The battle scenes are unbelievable. For accuracy, blood, violence and length
they are unmatched as far as my experience can say. The beach landing, the
assault on the radar site, the heart pounding final battle, all of them are
superb portraits of both combat itself and the men involved. All very
intense and bloody. If you love movie battles then this is the film you've
been waiting for. Some might call this film porn for action junkies but it is more than that.
Beautifully shot and orchestrated, Saving Private Ryan is ultimately a tale
of the men in combat rather than the combat itself. Unlike a lot of war
movies, in Saving Private Ryan you actually care about the characters and
don't just look at them as bullet catchers. Bottom Line: This film should be in everyone who calls themselves a movie
fan's collection. This movie is not to be missed and should be mandatory
viewing in schools.    

******
26 September 2003
7

I happen to like a lot the war films and this one contains two of the very
best battle scenes in the history of cinema; one in the beginning and one in
the end. Unfortunately, between these two scenes, the film is very simple,
to say the list and full of hidden propaganda (very logical, since the film
was made with the blessings of the American army). I didn't see anything
against the war, like I expected, only that in a case of it, we should be
doing our duty, even if it is a terrible thing and a lot of us will die a
terrible death. What I understand is that following the correct formula, you
can make very impressive films and a lot of money.

******
22 July 2003
9
As I am a thirty year military professional many people have asked my
opinion of the film. This is it in a nutshell:The Weapons:The thing I noticed most right away was the terrible dilapidated
condition
of the weapons used. It was beyond what could be excused as normal field
wear. Especially noticeable were the Garands. Very old, aged, wood for
instance. For as much money as they spent on the film, they could have
done
better.The Sniper:The sniper weapon seemed to undergo transformations. The scope and rings
seemed to change as they went along and the combinations just didn't make
it. Most odd was the manual of arms used by the sniper character.
Shooting
right and then using his left hand to operate the bolt just seemed nuts.
I
have never seen any trained shooter operate like this.The Uniforms:The field jackets were a more faded color of OD than the originals. I
know
this is nit picking, but I had one of these when I was a kid - 82nd
Airborne
too - and the color was noticeably brighter. Also, everyone seemed to
have
the same crude hand stitching on their shoulder insignia.The Battle Scenes:Every one of the eye witnesses still alive has had a comment on how real
the
battle scenes looked. One guy did say there was not that much blood in
real
life (the sand absorbed it). Some others I have pushed for comment
concede
that my impressions were correct in that most of the comments are more
meaning that it was more realistic that any movie done so far. But
comparing
it with the real stuff I have seen and with eyewitness accounts written
at
the time of the battle; and photos and film done at the time, one comes
to
the inescapable conclusion that the movie was actually much less "gory"
than
real life. For me, the best done casualty was when one man was hit in the
small action against the machine gun nest.The scene where the wall collapsed revealing a room full of stunned and
unmoving Germans who were then hosed down by two GI's with Thompson's was
over the top, credibility wise. Gimme a break. This film is still
Hollywood
enough that the valiant American soldiers are the only ones to suffer
wounding and survive; the only ones to fight through suffering and
adversity. All of the Germans die on the spot without further struggle or
resistance; all fall to one-shot stops and there are no heroes, no gritty
determination on the part of any of the Germans except for the guy with
the
bayonet. There were so many people killed and not one exhibited the
characteristic bladder/bowel emptying phenomenon ... I guess Hollywood
wasn't quite ready for (oops) that. How many movies have you seen *that*
in... one that I can recall ... perhaps no more ... they did so good with
the
sound, too bad they couldn't recreate the stench.The Characters:This is what bugged me the most. I grew up in the years immediately
following the war in the middle of scores of WWII combat vets. My dad, a
disabled Navy vet, moved the family to one of those giant new GI housing
projects surrounding one of three military bases in the area. I knew
these
men; Army, Air Corps, Navy, Marines. What they thought and how they
talked
had not changed since the war ended. VFW and DOD union gatherings held
many
opportunities to listen to endless talk and stories about the "war".
These
men had a clear and resolutely patriotic vision of what they did and why.
They harbored real vehement hatreds of the recently past enemies. In this
regard, this film did these men a great disservice; it made them look
weak
and cloying by comparison. The real men were the genuine article. Not
fearless or supermen either, but their attitude was entirely different,
their vocabulary was different, their demeanor was different. The guys in
the hastily contrived unit the Hanks character took into the field were
all
supposed to be experienced Rangers. These were the real meat-eaters of
the
Army in WWII - the fore-runners of the Green Berets and, as such, were
even
less likely to act in the way the film showed. These groups were some
real
tough S.O.B.'s. To top it off, everyone's haircuts were not period. If
you
want to see something closer to the real deal, catch "They Were
Expendable".
To these performances, add lots of very creative profanity.The Plot:I could not buy the actions of the men within the context of their
assigned
mission. Then, the blatant disregard for orders and the open hostility
toward superiors was very unrealistic (more Hollywood). I could have done
a
better plot in my sleep. The disobedience Ryan showed to the stated
orders
would not have happened. In real life he would have been ordered by the
Cpt
to get his gear and shove out and that would have been
that.What I did like:The cinematography was superb. The sound was great. It was the most
realistic depiction of the receiving end of gunfire I have heard on film
to
date. Still, this wasn't consistent throughout. The reality they did
attempt
with regard to battlefield casualties was better than what has probably
been
done to date. I think it is a good idea for young people to see this and
discuss it in terms of the reality of it and what violence really means
and
what it actually does to people. Real war is much worse than Spielberg
shows. I like the fact that in spite of what Spielberg's political agenda
may have been, people are looking at this as a more positive tribute to
those who sacrificed so much so that the rest of us could be free. That
is
its one redemption and what makes it worth seeing.

******
21 June 2003
10

I found Saving Private Ryan to be an extraordinary movie but only one
thing
kept it from getting a perfect rating : Where are the minorities in this
film? Does Spielberg really think that there were no blacks or latinos in
the war? Every soldier is white caucasian. Tom Hanks is good but this is
not
his best film. Tom Sizemore I feel is the top actor in this movie. He is
incredibly intense, almost like he has been involved in a war in his life.
The war scenes are the best and most realistic ever created which explains
why some veterans have trouble watching the movie. This movie is so close
to
perfect, only the exclusion of minorities keeps it from
this.My rating : @@@@ 1/2 (out of five)

******
29 May 2003
7

Not Steven Spielberg's best film by a long shot (ET or Schindler's List
anyone?) but certainly his most graphic, Saving Private Ryan is pretty much
summed up by its tagline "The Mission is a Man". The film is simple, almost
to the point of frustration and possibly Spielberg wanted it this way to
highlight some of the themes running throughout the film (war is, um...
bad). However what it amounts to is poor storytelling. Coming from
Spielberg, a man who prides himself for storytelling, this is a
disappointment.Tom Hanks plays the everyman, again, as a reluctant schoolteacher wanting to
help his country. Matt Damon plays Private Ryan, the young soldier that
Hanks and his crew have been sent to find. Beginning with one of the most
memorable scenes in recent cinema and ending with one of the most
sickeningly sentimental scenes, Private Ryan is an uneven work. What people
like about this film is the simple message juxtaposed with, what I guess,
brutal violence. Oliver Stone managed this better in Platoon (even the
brilliant opening scene in Private Ryan does not compare to the scene in
Platoon where the soldiers burn down the Vietnamese village).That said, SVP still features decent performances from Matt Damon and Tom
Hanks with excellent support coming from Tom Sizemore and a surprisingly
touching performance from Vin Diesel, in a small role as an Italian-American
soldier. The direction is also solid as is the script. However mundanity and
Spielberg's safety net, sentimentality frequently come into play making this
a lesser entry in the war film and the Spielberg cannon.


******
18 January 2003
10

I cannot believe that this film didn't win the 1999 best picture oscar, the
film is so brilliantly made that it practically had it in it's grasp. But a
word of warning, this is a different sort of Spielberg film. There are no
aliens, no sharks and the film is not in black and white, but the film is
VERY violent.Ok, i've got that off me, the film is...brilliant. The Film opens at the
D-Day Landings, which will be for me the best opening to a film ever.
Spielberg re-creates the landings with such preciseness, the way it is
edited, the way it is done...it is so brilliant.The rest of the film is a story to save a man behind enemy lines. But
really, the real star is the Omaha Beach Scene.This is Spielberg at his best, yet he got screwed like ET!
Damn!

******
24 December 2002
10

When I first saw Saving Private Ryan on DVD, it made me wish I would have
went to the theaters to catch one of the best movies ever made. It
brought a
tear to my eye, along with others, This is one of Spielberg's best yet to
date. With Tom Hanks as the main character it gave me a sense of
everything
was going to be all right, he did an outstanding job for his part. The
first
twenty minutes of the movie are breath taking I must say. If for some
reason
you can't watch the movie, at least watch the first twenty minutes of it.
Outstanding job, 10 out of 10!

******
4 November 2002
6

OK, it's a war movie. There are lots of war movies, so what's so great
about
this one? The abnormal amount of blood, guts and carnage? Did that make
the
brutes inside people vote "10" for this movie, so that it got an 8.3
rating
?!I just don't get why this movie is so highly rated. There's Tom Hanks in
it,
but Tom had much better roles, e.g. in Sleepless in Seattle or Apollo 13
or
You've Got Mail or a ton of other movies.I think that a "good" movie makes you want to see it one again some time.
Well, Saving Private Ryan didn't make me feel that way. I'd rather save
the
time and watch something else instead.


******
1 October 2002
8

This has to be the most realistic war film ever.   Everything about this
movie is good,the natural acting, the realistic battles (especially the
sound of bullets whistling by), and especially the storyline.  Of course
there are a few flaws, no movie is perfect, but they're just minor.  The
story here is really deep and straightfoward, 8 men> were sent to find one
private Ryan.  On the way they became skeptical and start asking themselves
whether that risking their life for one man is the "decent" thing to do.
Unlike BLack Hawk Down, also a good war movie, you have a sense of
connection with the individuals in the movie, the characters build up pretty
well. And sometime you feel for them, you understand their situation, and
their state of mind.   I really don't understand why many people complain
about how Steven Spieldberg didn't show other Ally Forces in the movie.  The
movie is about 8 American men trying to bring another man home.  That's why
it's call Saving Private Ryan.    This isn't a documentary movie about
everything that happen involving every nations during WWII starting from
1939-1945.  Otherwise it be called The World At War or something like that.
So stop complaining.

******
29 June 2002
9

As an ex soldier who has been in 'combat' I thought at first that this film
was too real at times and I was actually uncomfortable during the beach
landing scenes.  However, that is my psychological' problem and no
reflection of the film.  It makes me like and appreciate this film even more
and I have watched it again and own on tape and DVD.This is without doubt one of the best war films ever produced and it
benefits from the polarity of war' as the scene and humanity' as the
theme.  A must watch movie if only for entertainment but we all learn
something from these types of movies.  And as the effects in movies get more
and more realistic and perhaps over-realistic then we should force our
leaders to watch them.  With computer simulation power we might put an end
to war?  Nice thought but lets not forget that man is a natural born
killer.Anyway, I digress.  The movie is excellent and should only be watched on big
screen with 3D/5.1 surround sound to get the full effect.  If we learn
something then even better.


******
13 June 2002
7

I can't say it was a bad movie, but i didn't fully like
it...*first of all it was too patriotic for a non american, and maybe for an
american too, too many flags i guess...
*next, the action wasn't as constant as in Black Hawk Down...it wasn't as
repetitive as in Thin Red Line, but maybe the varied action scenes lead it
closer to any common action movie...
*the characters, although most of them good actors, it got too personal: i
rather see people looking alike, without names or even faces to remember
(BHD, TRL)
*the plot isn't the one of a war film, i think, i preffer those based on rel
life battles
*BUT the D-Day scene was absolutely amazing and shocking, and that's
basically what saves the movie... too bad it was kind of a short scene they
couldn't do the whole movie about it...7/10

******
30 April 2002
10

savin private ryan is just a great movie.  tom hanks shows why he is one
of
the best actors ever with his performance, and spielberg shows why he is
the
best director of all time.  The battle scenes are great and very
realistic.
And the music is wonderful.  The scene where hanks' character looks at the
view is great.  see this movie.

******
21 April 2002
8

This a hard film to get into because of the long extensive battle scenes.
While war films aren't necessarily my favorite genre and it's not the
greatest story I ever heard it's certainly a masterfully put together film.
There are great moments in this that are Spielberg's trademarks but the
handheld camera and the selective omission of sound are truly great at
getting you into the insanity and making it a realistic experience. Home
video subtracts from the experience and you must find a larger screen if at
all possible. 8/10

******
12 April 2002
10

Last night I watched "Saving Private Ryan" for the second time. I could say
the experience that was very impressive in the first time got surprisingly
even better. This is a long movie so obviously it takes a huge amount of
viewings until it's impossible to find something new in it anymore. Steven
Spielberg, one of Hollywood's biggest wizards has directed two kind of
motion pictures, ones that are purely entertainment and doesn't even try to
be anything else ("Jaws", "Jurassic park") and films with a message
("Schindler's list", "Amistad"). In the end this one has a one simple
message: war is insane.Greatest things about "Saving Private Ryan" are first of all the
sensational, highly awarded and celebrated camera-work that actually gives
audience the feeling of being in the battlefield too. That's what makes the
film such a thrilling, vivid and incredible experience. It puts the the
viewer from the comfortable living room chair to "out there" and puts
him/her go through this hell and every nightmarish detail that's part of it.
Other marvelous thing is a good story, little extraordinary and different
from what the usual war films normally have. That's what keeps the movie
interesting all the way.Fantastic cast needs to be mentioned too. Everybody's brilliant but
especially Tom Hanks who's come a long way from the time he played only
comedic roles to this one - the darkest and the most horrifying and
pressuring movie of his career that could easily be described as
ultra-violent. I have much less bad things to say about "Saving Private
Ryan". John Williams' score isn't the most memorable one he has wrote but to
be perfectly honest, I don't really mind because it isn't important. What
really disturbs me is the fact that the whole movie is a one giant
flashback.Therefore it creates sugary ending at least I don't care to see after two
and a half hors of pain, suffering and blood. Well, it's only expectable
from Spielberg. Film would be pretty much perfect without the flashback but
I guess I can't have it all my way. For the people who claim this is the
best war movie ever made I have to state that I really don't agree. It's one
of the best war films, certainly in the top ten but it just isn't the best.
But it's a classic already. And it will become even a bigger classic. And
it's a one hell-of-a experience everyone who loves a good movie should most
definitely see at least...well, twice.

******
4 April 2002
10

 This review has spoilers in it.  If you want to avoid them, skip this
review.
 This is one of my favorite (real) war film, along whith the secod-best film
of the 90s (#1 of the 90s is THE MATRIX).  All the acting is flawless,
except for the scene where the general says "We have got to get someone to
get that boy the hell out of there."
 The film begins with the most intense battle sequence I've ever seen in a
film at Omaha beach, June 6 1944.  During the invasion, a boy is killed who
is the brother of Private James Ryan, who also lost two other brothers. 
Since James is the only one left a squad of eight soldiers is sent deep into
enemy territory lead by Capitian John Miller (Tom Hanks).  Once they find
Ryan, he refuses to leave his squad, which is holding one of only two
bridges that brach into Poland.  By the end only Ryan, and two of Miller's
platoon is left alive.  
 As I said before, all the acting in this film is exelent, but the best
preformance is Edward Burns' preformance as Rieband.  I won't go into the
directing because Spielberg won Best Director at the Oscars, so.  I give SAVING PRIVATE RYAN 9.5/10

******
30 March 2002
8
I'm an action movie lover, but typically war movies turn me off.
There's just too much awfulness going around -- if stuff is blowing up,
I want it to be cartoony so I can enjoy it rather than be traumatized.And, frankly, most of the war movies I've seen have mostly commented on
the horror of war. OK, I get it. War is hell, and I'd like to spend my
life avoiding hell whenever possible. It's certainly not entertainment."Saving Private Ryan" does have its painfully realistic moments, but
there is a message and it is worth hearing. It won't spoil the story
for me to write it here. Those who died in war made a sacrifice that
obligates us, the survivors and beneficiaries of their sacrifice, to
live life to the fullest and make their sacrifice worthy.This and many other themes are handled well in a superbly acted story
whose visual effects are used to show the aspects of war rather than
immerse us in 3D graphics chaos from which we learn nothing (as in
Black Hawk Down).Who should see this film:-- War movie buffs-- Action movie buffs, even if you don't normally go for war films,
unless the deep thinking and arty aspects are a turn-off-- Drama / arty types who don't easily get nightmaresI'll give "Saving Private Ryan" an 8 out of 10.

******
26 March 2002
8

I was told it was worth it to see this movie for the opening battle scenes
alone, and that turned out to be an accurate statement. In no other war
movie is there anything like the realism and aura in picturing soldiers
being peppered, and sometimes hit, by machine gun fire.  From pillboxes on
D-Day, no less, with the tensions of an amphibious landing.  The scenes of
the wounded throughout this film are also something else, serving as the
archetype and forerunner of "Black Hawk Down."  Some points in the battle
scenes, beginning and later, might be described as real and surreal at the
same time, a la Kubrick.The rest of the movie as well lived up to the good things I had heard about
it.  Tom Hanks does extremely well as Captain Miller, the leader of the pack
in saving a private behind enemy lines because all of his brothers, fighting
elsewhere in WWII, have been killed.  Hanks is very natural and convincing
in this role, leadership qualities and personableness, forcefulness and
bravery.  The human element works, and we are moved during the film's
progress and conclusion.  See this one.

******
21 March 2002
10

This film is brilliant from start to finish.  It is also extremely realistic
and intense.  Steven Spielberg has made a masterpiece with this film.  John
Williams composes another triumphant film score.  
I can see why this movie won so many Oscars, it is one of the best films out
there.  A spectacular cast keeps this film moving at a frantic pace.  Tom
Hanks, as always, does a fantastic job with his role.  His certainly is an
Oscar-worthy performance.  Great supporting cast includes: Tom Sizemore,
Matt Damon, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, 
Giovanni Ribisi, Dennis Farina, Ted Danson, Jeremy Davies, Adam Goldberg,
Paul Giametti and Vin Diesel.  While watching this film, you feel the
anguish, comradery and despair of the characters.  An emotionally charged
film that is a true war movie and the battle scenes are incredible.  Some
scenes are graphic but this is war and you have to be realistic with it all.
 If you have seen "Black Hawk Down" and "We Were Soldiers" and have not yet
seen this, then see it as soon as you can.  This film is amazing and will
stay with you long after viewing.  Haunting and intriguing, "Saving Private
Ryan" is a masterpiece that you won't forget.

******
20 March 2002
10

Steven Spielberg has made a hymn. This movie pays hommage to millions of
lives lost in all wars, by the eyes of soldiers that could be just any
soldier. The synopsis isn't important: James Ryan, the last of four brothers
will be bailed out of war so that he can return home before he dies. A
division is assigned the mission of finding him and bringing him back. But
it won't be that easy. It's just that simple, without spoilers. The real
juice in this movie is first of all a masterful depiction of war as it was:
a stupid carnage that took thousands of lives. And the opening sequence
proves what I'm talking about: those must be the most haunting 30 minutes of
90's cinema. The movie's also a great study of how Man reacts when
everything has cessed to make sense around him. This movie is not an easy
experience. It's a thrill ride, but I'm not talking popcorn: everyone should
see it, for his own sake. This movie opens our eyes. And we'll never look at
war the same way again. One of the best movies of the last decade, and one
of the biggest errors in the Oscars. 

******
15 March 2002
7

If we're honest, the film is a good one, but nothing special.  The pace of
the first half hour cannot be kept up and the rest of the film seems dull
after such a breath taking opening.  Apart from the violence and 'oh my God
look how real this is' of the beach landings, we have just another average,
how America won the war flick.  Spielberg should hold his hands up and
admit
how much of this picture he stole from 'A Bridge Too Far', the whole of the
final battle is based/stolen from that film.  Not a bad film, but far from
a
great one.

******
27 February 2002
8

If this movie is known for one thing, it's the opening D-Day landing scene.
On the small screen, this loses a lot of its power. In the theatre there was
no escaping the horrific sounds and images, whereas at home you can turn the
sound down and perhaps be thankful the screen doesn't fill your vision. That
this opening twenty minutes is the most harrowing and realistic depiction of
the D-Day landings yet seen shouldn't be in doubt, although hopefully I'll
never be in a position where I can make such a judgement based on personal
experience.This film says a lot with comparatively few words. The actions of the men
speak for themselves, and its to the credit of the cast  including Hanks,
whose acting ability I'm usually amongst the first to question  that their
honest and understated performances are pretty much perfect.It's said that Spielberg over-relies on playing with the emotions of his
audience, but when a movie succeeds in making you feel humble, you know
you've been experiencing a master filmmaker at the top of his
game.


******
21 February 2002
10

Saving Private Ryan is one of the finest movies every made.  The richly
wrought characterizations were very deftly done.  These were real men who
had genuine fear of being hurt or killed.  The acting was flawless on the
part of the principals and the many supporting roles as well.  A friend of
mine saw the film ten times in the theater.  I went out to buy the laser
disc as soon as it came out.  That was when laser disc cost $40 for a new
movie.  Now one can purchase a DVD movie for about half that price in the
discount stores.Saving Private Ryan is THE classic war movie of all time.

******
8 February 2002
10

There really is no need to discuss what goes on in this film, since all of
the world has seen it 10 times over.  Tom Hanks is possibly the greatest
actor of my generation, I being 26 when the film was released.  Thomas
Sizemore is one of my favorite actors, despite always being a supporting
actor.  No question, that this is the greatest war movie ever created, and
it will take something VERY special to steal that crown away.  As far as I'm
concerned it was the best movie that I've ever seen to date.  Obviously I
gave it a 10.

******
7 February 2002
9

There is perhaps something a slightly wrong with seeing realistic war movies
for entertainment.  It is also perhaps slightly off topic to opionate on whether this is the
Greatest Movie, or one of the Greatest Movies, of all time or not. Mr. Spielberg, thanks for helping me to understand.There's more I could say, but I don't feel like talking right now. 

******
28 January 2002
8

I never finished watching this movie and I don't really care to. I wasn't
unsettled or bothered by the opening sequence merely bored. It wasn't
compelling merely gory and heavy-handed. It was a reverse tactic to try and
get the audience involved in the story and frankly it didn't work for me and
as the movie progressed I cared less and less about the story. Boring and
overrated. 1/10.

******
27 January 2002
10

Five years after "Schindler's List", director Steven Spielberg delivered
another powerful motion picture drama, "Saving Private Ryan". This movie
(set during WWII) tells the story of a group of soldiers (led by Army
captain Tom Hanks) who go into France to find a private who's three brothers
were killed in action, and send him home. The opening 30 minute D-Day
sequence is one of the most harrowing movie scenes ever filmed. The story is
exceptional, the directing is brilliant, and the acting is excellent. Tom
Hanks is terrific as usual, and is supported by an outstanding cast which
includes Matt Damon ("Good Will Hunting"), Tom Sizemore ("Black Hawk Down"),
Edward Burns ("She's the One"), Vin Diesel ("The Fast and the Furious"),
Adam Goldberg ("A Beautiful Mind"), Jeremy Davies ("Twister"), Barry Pepper
("61*"), Giovanni Ribisi ("subUrbia"), and Ryan Hurst ("Remember the
Titans"). Some of these actors have gone on to bigger things since this
movie but they're all good here. Popular TV star Ted Danson (TV's "Cheers"
and "Becker") and veteran character actor Dennis Farina ("Midnight Run" and
"Get Shorty") even turn up in cameos. "Saving Private Ryan" should have won
the Best Picture Oscar for 1998 because it's a war movie that's harrowing
and powerful. It did go on to win 5 Oscars including Spielberg's Best
Director win. It's one of the best war movies ever made.**** (out of four)


******
7 January 2002
10

For the few people who voted under at least a 6 rating, I believe you
don't
see the importance of the movie.  It was probably the best (or at least
most
realistic) war movie I've ever seen, and I've seen a lot of war movies.
It
truly depicts what the average combat soldier went through on an daily
basis
and what men had to go through to save the country we live in today.  I
once
heard Stephen Ambrose (one of the most well-known and respected historians
of the U.S.) say, "Saving Private Ryan was exactly what all the people
I've
been interviewing about this war told me it was like."  Steven Spielberg
AND
Tom Hanks both received the highest civilian medals possible from the navy
for making this film.  It inspired me, and if it didn't inspire you, you
should watch it again and think about what was did to preserve our beloved
United States.  And you should realize that this is as close to WW2 that
we're going to get.  It sets the standards for any war movie to come and
probably will as long as we're still making movies.

******
26 November 2001
6

I guess I am one of the few who do not sing praises about this film. I am a
great admirer of Steven Spielberg's early works--especially his small, great
film "Duel". The later works of Spielberg have relied on emotions of
audiences, not cinema as a creative medium or as a vehicle to present
intelligent perspectives. It is sad that Terrence Mallick's intelligent film
"The Thin Red Line" on the same war lost out to this melodramatic, ordinary
effort from a man who has done better films when he had less success and
money. A few shots of the old Spielberg did surface briefly when the film
captured the first rain drops and the boots of soldiers getting
wet.Hollywood has made better war films than this one. The little known "Castle
Keep" was one such film. Spielberg knows what appeals to the average
American mind and makes movies that will be lapped up without giving the
average moviegoer any reason to reflect or think. He has begun to play on
emotions and is no longer reaching out to thinking viewers. He is aware that
this will not make the box-office jingle. Most people do go to movies to
relax, not to be wiser. Mallick, on the other hand, makes movies the way he
wants them made forcing his viewers to think. Mallick will slowly be
recognized as a master filmmaker in the US by adults as time goes by, while
Spielberg will continue to appeal to the juvenile minds of adults, who love
action and emote easily. The difference was evident, when the Berlin
International Film Festival recognized Mallick's film with top honor and the
Academy Awards bestowed its top honors on Spielberg in the same year. Viva
la difference!    

******
9 November 2001
10

"Saving Private Ryan", my favorite film, should be remembered for decades
to come as one of the greatest war films ever made.  Director Steven
Spielberg and screenwriter Robert Rodat captured the brutality and realism
of war with a certain passion.  I still can't believe "Shakespeare In Love"
won the Best Picture Oscar over this film.
After twenty minutes of the graphic recount of the D-Day landing on Omaha
Beach, we find out that a Private James Ryan, who is behind enemy lines,
has
to go home after his three brothers have been killed in combat.  Captain
John Miller, Tom Hanks, leads a squad of soldiers to find
Ryan.
With some of the most graphic battle scenes, this is a film that will
haunt
you.  It will make you realize of the horrors the soldiers had to face.
Spielberg and "Private Ryan" does World War II like Oliver Stone
and"Platoon" did for Vietnam.  This is a film not to be
missed.

******
8 October 2001
10

Steven has done it again, A superb film about world war 2. This is a movie
that i have watched several times and i still get so mad at Upham. This is
a movie worth to be owned on dvd. And i strongly recommend it for all of
you
that havent already seen it.

******
13 September 2001
10

I saw this film ,one Saturday, early in the day. I was never a huge war
movie fan, but i gave it a shot anyway. All i can say is, i was shocked at
how great of a movie it was, and how good a war film can actually be. i
give
it ***** out of *****. Amazing Film.

******
12 September 2001
8

Trenchant World War II drama about an army captain (Tom Hanks) assigned to
take his squad of seven men into France, locate a private whose three
brothers have been killed in combat and let him go home. Conventional
elements in the script are balanced by a genuinely complex examination of
heroism in the field and over powered by the most realistic, relentlessy
harrowing battle footage ever committed to a fiction film. 


******
3 September 2001
3

A script that begins with a credible concept of wartime legal necessity,
then winds up at the dead end of a Private baldly disobeying a superior
officer - and STAYING in the war - is almost unworthy of comment.  More
believable scenarios (with laugh-track) came out of "Hogan's
Heroes".Maybe there's a pacifist motivation in having the guy disobey his superior,
then having the superior meaninglessly die.  ("War - what is it good for?")
But the other half of that 50% chance is that the writer or writers just
didn't know what else to do with this thing.  After all, they clearly didn't
intend to write "Midway" or "Patton".

******
29 August 2001
10

Still ranks as one of the great Oscar upsets of all times - its really
unfortunate that the Tom Hanks / Steven Speilberg backlash caught this
movie
and shut it out of the place in history it deserves. Shakespeare in Love?
Please.
An accurate creation with a undercurrent of pride mixed with duty that
should make every gen X & Y'er think.

******
17 August 2001
3

No doubt about it, the landing on Omaha beach is great stylistic
filmmaking.
Succeeds in conveying the violence and randomness of war.  After that 25
minutes, however, the film quickly falls into an episode of "Combat," alas,
without Vic Morrow.  Tom Hanks' dead serious expressions bring more to the
material than is there.  Then for the final hunk, as they attempt to hold a
bridge, John Williams' score even changes to be vaguely reminiscent of an
Indiana Jones action sequence.  Sorry to say it, but in my book this isn't
close to Spielberg's World War II masterpiece "Schindler's List."  It's
three films tacked together and then marketed as if it were our solemn duty
to the memories of those who served in the Armed Forces to watch it.  Well,
I've watched it, and feel it does their memories a disservice.There's far superior war films - "Patton," "Battleground," "The Longest
Day," "Twelve O'Clock High," "The Bridge on the River Kwai" to name a few -
to turn to for emotionally gripping accounts.Also, if you get the chance, watch the pilot episode of "Combat." Saunders
(Morrow) first survives landing on Omaha Beach then needs to take his squad
to secure a bridge and encounters a German Tiger Tank.  Don't watch because
the TV show is an accurate portrayal of history - it isn't - watch to see
the similarities to the action plot points in "Ryan."


******
2 August 2001
9

This is definitely the best war movie ever made. Sure, it wasn't one of
those movies where every second of the movie is action (like the Planet of
the Apes, 2001). A lot of these comments I totally disagree with, because
there was PLENTY of action.

******
12 July 2001
10

Being of a generation predating the war, I don't really have an
understanding of what these men went through.  This movie is the closest I
have come to feeling the genuine fear and bravery these men dealt with
every
day of the war.  In my opinion this is more than just a movie (unlike so
many other war films).  The drama portrayed in Ryan touches me in a way
that
only being there can surpass.

******
14 May 2001
5

Contains SpoilersAnyone who has not already seen the film might prefer to watch it before
reading this review as, in order to make my point, I must discuss the
ending.Although the film contains one of the most powerful scenes I have ever seen,
the ultimate message and overall impact of the movie were drowned in a
sacharine sea of contrived sentimentality and bathos. The one scene that
was, of itself, worth the price of admission was the mesmerizing sequence in
which one soldier bayonets another in a way that superbly contrasts the
intimacy and immediacy of hand to hand combat with the indiscriminate and
impersonal butchery of the Normandy landings, portrayed in the opening
scenes. I was fascinated, appalled and riveted to the screen. I shall never
forget it.Unfortunately, by comparison, the rest of the film was a cop-out. I had
recently watched the movie "Saviour" and found it a far more powerful
statement about war and its impact on those caught up in it. Spielberg's
movie could have been even better. He could have created a film that would
haunt audiences for generations. Consider this simple twist -Ryan dies and
Captain Miller lives. Now how do we feel about Ryan's decision to remain
with his comrades? Was he being noble or foolhardy. What would be the
difference? Was the Captain noble to disobey orders, or criminally
negligent? If Miller is not conveniently taken care of by Fate, will the
army punish him? Will he ultimately believe he did the right thing or will
he wrestle forever with guilt? Would it somehow have been worse for Ryan to
have escaped unscathed while his mates died? Did Ryan have the right to
dictate his own actions? Does any soldier? Should they? Was the army
hypocritical to place greater value upon the life of one individual within
its ranks? What about parents with only one child to lose? Would their
burden somehow be less? To who or to what does a man owe his greatest
loyalty? Are there even answers to these questions? Maybe war just is
Hell!!!Maybe, but you'd never know it by Spielberg!

******
25 February 2001
3

Was the movie done well?  Yes, beautifully.
Was it any good.  No, not at all.What was the allure, it was long, unentertaining, and I really found no
point.  Maybe that was the point, but the pointlessness of war could have
been made faster.This movie turned me off of war movies for years.  I always wanted to see A
Thin Red Line, but I'm still too warred out, years later.

******
3 February 2001
10

Many just don't get it.  This is an Anti-War Movie. The plot concerns a group of men sent to do something kind of pointless and
futile in one of the most necessary and important wars of the last 2000
years.  This plot is based partially on a true story, however, the true
story happened during the civil war, not during World War
II.For a wide variety of critics of this movie a copy of "T2" and "Matrix"
would be all they need to keep them cinematically happy for the rest of
their lives.  Do not, I repeat DO NOT go to see this movie for some
"action-adventure."  Go rent "Raiders of the lost ark" or some other
worn-out mind-numbing eye-candy movie.This movie is really different.  It is arguably that ONLY war movie in
HISTORY that is 100% realistic, all the way down to the pacing of the war
itself.  War consists of periods of ferocious fighting and abject terror
book-ending long periods of introspection and fear.  The closest thing to
this movie is "All Quiet on the Western Front."The musical theme for this movie is also superb - it can be compared
to
the outstanding theme for "Patton".  However, the tone and emphasis of the
movie and the music are the polar opposite of that of "Patton". I ended up buying this movie and watching it about 10 times.  I like the
theme so much that I just put it into the DVD and play the music in an
infinite loop on the stereo.  This is the first DVD that I've used so much
that I lost it, and I'm going to have to buy another copy.


******
28 January 2001
8

Spielberg makes some great films, Schindler's List being one of my all time
favourites, but Saving Private Ryan just doesn't do anything for me.  The
D-Day beach scene was very well done but the rest of the film is just
dreary.  Spielberg should have read Spike Milligan's war memoirs before
making this film.

******
26 January 2001
10

Come on. For all people who say this movie is boring, non entertaining and
finding stupid flaws with it, Give me a break. This is easily the best war
movie ever. To say that you were not moved by it in any way means you have
some sort of mental ailment or you are lying. I cannot understand how
people
say such movies like the matrix are better. The matrix may be a good film,a
great film, but to say it was better than this movie should be a sin. Most
definately the MTV generation making such statements as this. Anyone who
agrees with me can e-mail me. All others, read a few books about WW2, open
up your mind and watch it again.E-Mail me with your comments

******
24 November 2000
4

Quite a strange film this one.  I would have to say that the opening
sequence is impressive but then the film has something to live up to.
Unfortunately, in my opinion, it fails and seems to plod on from scene to
scene until the big finale when action takes over again.I admire the fact that it is trying to bring to life an event that so many
of us can not imagine.  I, for one can not realise what the men who fought
for their country (any country) gave and hopefully never will have to, but
this film tries to address the issue.  Successfully too.  That is where
the
film succeeds.Unfortunately, I don't identify with any of the characters within Tom
Hanks'
team.  To me, it seems they are just a large group thrown together so they
all can be killed one by one as a kind of sacrificial lamb.  A kind of "oh
it's another battle scene, which one shall we kill off this time".  In
between, the conversations between the characters seems a filler to try
and
give the individual some personality so you feel for them when (if) they
eventually die.  For me personally, I was losing interest and was actually
wondering which one would be next.
An average film overall but does show that not all aspects of war are
about
glory.A once in a lifetime experience.  i.e. I would only recommend you watch it
once.  Not the type of film to watch again and again.To the people writing about only Americans being shown in the war - An
American group of soldiers landing with an American infantry sent on a
mission by their leader (an American, obviously) to rescue an American
soldier from a place where only Americans are based.  It doesn't seem that
strange to me.   If I was the leader, I know I wouldn't go to a group of
British or French soldiers asking the whereabouts of an American soldier,
surely you would go where Americans are based.


******
20 November 2000
6

This movie was realistic, but that's about all it had going for it.  Basic
plot, basic characters.  Quentin Tarintino on his worst day could produce a
more compelling cast of characters to feel for.  I can name off the top of
my head a lot of better war movies than Private Ryan.  Full Metal Jacket,
Platoon, Apocalypse now, etc....

******
29 October 2000
3

Everyone tells me how good this movie is, I was so excited when I went to
watch it. Hmm, it was so sub par! I mean, everyone says, "oh my god, that
beach battle scene is so good, it's so realistic!" First of all, how do you
know it's realistic? Oh that's right, everyone has been to war! And since
when do you judge a movie in accordance with its special effects? Does that
mean Matrix is the best movie ever? (I love the matrix, I am just making a
point). In actuality, this movie was VERY boring. Also, the way in which the
beach scene was shot was no clever, it was stupid and annoying. If they're
going to show the scene, I don't care to be in the shoes of the soldier if
I'm not going to be able to see what was going on. If the camera needs to be
in 1st person, keep it there. To change around was so unprofessional. That
scene was a little entertaining when it wasn't annoying, the gore was cool.
But I am a gore enthusiast so it doesn't make sense. The rest of the movie
was anti climatic and boring.

******
24 October 2000
3

Although this movie cost millions and millions of dollars, Steven
Spielberg
went for cheap ideas. Yes, this movie is just a heap of tricks and cliches
that can appeal to a great bulk of the population, as it evidently
did.Sequences made of shots of guts being spilled, heads blown up intersected
with sounds of war and then complete silence can be thought to be a very
"artistic" and "intelligent" way to construct a movie, but in this film it
certainly is not the case. The film lacks ideological background, it just
plays and replays on the already used reused and recycled "horrors of
war".
Yes we know war is horrible, yes we know war is inhumane. What is Saving
Private Ryan portraying that is new? It just plays on emotions that the
public readily agrees to have, this movie hardly makes anybody think, its
just restating what countless others have already said. The film is not
innovative at all, it uses a formula which will guarantee positive public
reaction, big bucks, an Academy Award nomination and hopefully an award,
as
it sadly did.The film on its formal standpoint is just another postclassical Hollywood
movie, a lot of people, big names on screen, special effects, nothing out
of
the ordinary. Do we see innovative or powerful use in its lighting? No.
Editing? No. Camera movements? No. They do look spectacular I must agree
with that, but nothing else, they have no concept to fall back
on.This is just one of the hundreds of movies that play on cliches and don't
dare to go beyond, they do not dare think.

******
13 October 2000
3

After the over edited, over-hyper opening sequence this movie settled down
to some of the worst bad acting school exercises I've ever seen.  Some
very
good actors were reduced to cliched dialog obviously written to sound
improvisational.  Every 1940's war movie ploy was on display and even
surpassed by the hokey ending with the music poured on like syrup.


******
22 August 2000
6

I gave this movie a six because of the first 23 minutes. After that the
movie falls flat. If Spielberg had remade "The Longest Day", with the battle
scenes like the beginning of this movie, there would have had to have been
Psychiatrists at every screening, to deal with the cases of post traumatic
stress disorder. What people fail to realize is that Spielbergs' movies look
so good because of his cinematographer, Janusz Kaminski. So stop heaping all
the praise on Spielberg. Remember, everyone talks about that first twenty
minutes, not the rest.

******
16 August 2000
5

This is just yet another movie about war, i guess it was very reak for
them
to hold that bridge but for me, personally i think the plot was very
flawed.
The use of a lot of carnage was meant well i guess but ended up looking
like
Army of darkness for the first hour then switched to being a walk in a
bombed out land. I dont think that Tom Hanks was worth it in this movie,
hate to say it but this is just not his type of movie. he is too ^neat^
for
it.

******
28 June 2000
6

(This might contain spoilers.)Call me crazy, but as a movie SPR is not more realistic than, say, the
´poetic´ Thin red line. Especially during the final scenes, it has the
feeling of an old John Wayne flick, when our brave heros fight against an
evil, much superior but dumb enemy, and in the last moment, when everything
seems lost, the cavalry arrives and saves the day. And beside that, who
destroyed the french village where this final battle takes place? Apparently
not the Americans (of course), but when Paris fell after a six week campaign
in 1940, the war in France was over and there was no need for the Germans to
destroy villages in the far west. In terms of realism, movies like Das Boot
or Hope and Glory, and I am sure, many other films, that I have not seen
yet, are superior to SPR. You might refer to it as the most
realistic depiction of the day on Omaha Beach, that´s all.But the first 20 minutes are truly devastating. Utterly brilliant in its
choreography. It is not possible to recreate Omaha Beach on the screen, but
Spielberg did his (or anyones) best to give the audience a hindsight, what
happened to those brave men in that battle. After this first act, the movie
goes pretty straight downhill. I didn´t care for the characters. The members
of the SPR-Squad are a bunch of stereotypes, representing the most average
and archetypical group of American WWII soldiers you can imagine. I believe,
this is done by purpose, and a bad idea, because without interesting
characters, a movie cannot be that good. Therefore, it has a story, not
character driven plot, that drags unfortunately heavily in the middle hour
of the movie. Some are irritated by the patriotism and complaining (Where
are the British, the French, the Australians, etc.), but hey, this was made
by Americans for Americans about Americans, and that´s o.k. In fact, after
this and the Korean war, the US-boys might never have been the entirely good
ones again. In summary, without the brillant first battle, SPR would be only
a mediocre war flick. 6.5/10      

******
27 May 2000
9

As a die-hard Steven Spielberg fan, I find it difficult to give such a
tremendously powerful film like Saving Private Ryan anything less than a 10,
but there were a couple of things in the film that caused huge problems for
me, mainly because they could have been avoided so easily. For example,
whose brilliant idea was it to cast a teenage heartthrob like Matt Damon
(and yes, I realize that he is not a teen himself, but he is extremely
popular among junior high school girls) in the role of a private in a World
War II film?! Tom Hanks was perfect, but only because he is one of the best
actors working right now, and he can do a great job in virtually any role.
Furthermore, Ted Danson literally stops the film in its tracks.However, Saving Private Ryan, despite these superficial problems, is a truly
timeless film, and is an extremely powerful depiction of the brutality of
World War II. Besides being hugely entertaining, a lot can be learned from
this film. It is a landmark in filmmaking history and should not be
missed.

******
4 May 2000
3

With all of Hollywood at his disposal Spielberg has no excuse for his own
mediocrity as a film maker.  This "simulation" fails for the same reason
that it is possible.  Viewers leave the theaters believing that they
understand war, what it was like to be there, and that they have seen a
"realistic" portrait of war.  Saving Private Ryan makes war comfortable and
knowable even in its supposed gritty action.  If anything, Spielberg's
method suggests a realistic portrayal of what it was like to fantasize about
the war while remaining on the homefront... thus in his footage of the
landing scene, Spielberg consciously imitates newsreel footage which was
viewed back home rather than as it was seen on the beaches.  It is a style
of film making which believes that the truth is in the details, but the end
result is a lifeless mannequin with no soul or inner truth.  Saving Private
Ryan is much like the photographic snapshot, which however more "realistic"
never conveys the deeper meaning and realism of a painting.  Although
perhaps a deserving pat on the back for a generation which faced something
truly awful, in the end I believe Speilberg has done veterans a disservice
by flattering millions into believing they understand what it was like to be
there (or how else could so many non-veterans talk of the
"realism"?

******
14 March 2000
3

Saving Private Ryan (Der Soldat James Ryan (German title)) has in my eyes
one of the most realistic openings in the history of movies in this genre.
It shows that human beings are nothing more than beasts when it comes to
war. But the plot of the rest of the film is nothing but absolute nonsense.
That's where the "dramatic" part takes in. I simply don't believe that such
a story really could have happened. 

******
9 November 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is easily the best war movie that has ever been made,
and quite possibly one of the best movies ever made, period.  It is the
only
movie I have ever been to that has silenced and stunned a packed theater.
I
clearly remember that during the first silent moment in the film, after the
D-Day invasion scene, that the theater was dead silent.  If I hadn't taken
a
second to look around and seen the people it would have been impossible to
tell that every seat in the theater was filled.I currently own the movie on DVD and have enjoyed watching it.  It is not
the same experience as in the theater, but much better than on VHS.  Many
people think that the movie was far to graphic; although, it was very
graphic, that is the way war is.  And since Steven Spielberg wanted a
realistic movie, that is what he had to do.  The story line of saving one
man among the slaughter of the invasion of France was an interesting choice
for a plot, but very effective.  It shows that compassion can still
prevail,
even in the worst of circumstances.Due to the graphic nature of the movie, people with weak stomachs may want
to avoid it (or have someone cover your eyes).  To everyone else, watch it.
You will be hard pressed to find a better movie.Jammrock

******
8 November 1999
10

For those people who feel "Saving Private Ryan" was nothing but an excuse to
put some gratuitous violence on screen, or feel that the violence was "over
the top," I have just three words for you--Read Your History.  Read Stephen
Ambrose's book on D-Day (Ambrose just happened to be the historical
consultant for the film), and you will learn exactly what bullets, mortars,
grenades, etc. actually do to a human being. You'll discover that the
violence that television and other movies have fed us for the last 20-30
years is a bunch of c**p.And for those people who have been involved in war, then watch this film and
claim that the violence is excessive and false, then obviously, your
experiences in wartime didn't mirror those men who's accounts were used in
the book mentioned above and in "Ryan." And they don't mirror those memories
of countless men who saw this film and left the theater visibly shaken,
because their story was finally told the way it should be.Steven Spielberg was not trying to "Out-Gross" "Braveheart."  He was
attempting to open our eyes.  And if he was successful, then maybe those
truly gut-wrenching scenes would serve a noble purpose--if not "An end to
war," then at least an end to the Romanticism of War.  Which is, at least, a
step in the right direction.So "Shakespeare In Love" received the Oscar.  Is it ever going to be
referred to as " A National Monument?"  I doubt it.  "Saving Private Ryan"
is still getting coverage that refers to it in those terms.So, to sum up, before criticizing this movie based on its level of violence,
try accumulating a little background before making such accusations.


******
6 November 1999
10

I just saw this movie via HBO. I imagined that I could not take the full
effect of war on a big screen  and I think I was right. However very
detailed and real life war description did not give me a hollow and
depressing feeling given by other war movies - most Vietnam War movies.Through the movie I was asking, "why War"?   This movie gave me a feeling
that I am not an observer but a participant. I give standing ovation to the whole crew as well as actors and the
director. This is one big, well orchestrated teamwork.This movie deserved Academy Award and Tom Hanks should be given Best Actor
award as well.The movie has given me a chance to think about the human behaviors and
extend to which our emotions and humanity could be stretched.  I would never
endorse any war-ideologically or otherwise. I am very grateful for Mr.
Spielberg for making this movie. Men can create war and some same men can
create art.


******
31 October 1999
10

While waiting in line to see SPR I struck up a conversation with an older
gentlemen in his 70's.  He had participated in D-Day.  Though in the 2nd
wave, he saw the results of the hell the 1st wave of men lived through.  At
the end of the movie I saw him seated unable to move, crying, while his wife
held his shoulders.  I realized I was crying too.  I'll never look at
another person in his 70's/80's the same way again, and for that I thank
Steven Spielberg.I have read most of the previous reviews and have found a common thread:
most of the negative reviews are from europeans.  The same europeans our
young men spilled their guts and blood to liberate.  The same europeans we
saved after the war with the Marshall Plan.  The same europeans who now
complain and criticize about the "patriotism" of SPR.  The same ungrateful,
hypocritical europeans who so easily forget that it is Americans who are
buried under those countless white crosses and Star of Davids'.  The amazing
thing is that we are still sending young Americans overseas to save their
sorry a$$e$.

******
16 October 1999
5

Saving Private Ryan was a little to intense for my tastes, maybe I enjoy
the
sugar coating a little too much.  It was an excellent movie, I just could
not handle the harshness of it.  After seeing it I was unable to sleep
because I was so upset.  I realize that it was very close to an accurate
representation of the war, but I would rather avoid exposing myself to
something as disturbing as the opening scene for my own sanity.  The plot
was intelligent and honest though extremely disheartening.

******
16 August 1999
4

Perhaps having viewed this film at the cinema a couple of weeks after its
debut tainted my expectations about 'Saving Private Ryan'. Perhaps the
immense amount of hype precluding and following its release built the
movie
up just a little too much. Whatever the reason, I must admit that I found
'Saving Private Ryan' just a little tedious and pretentious. Don't get me
wrong here, there's no genre of movie that I enjoy more than the good old
[anti]war. 'Platoon', 'Apocalypse Now', 'Full Metal Jacket', 'All Quiet on
the Western Front', '1918: Westfront', 'Stalingrad' and 'Das Boot' (all
German productions) are among my all time favorite movies. I like a good,
harsh, realistic war movie. And being a product of the electronic
generation
I can even sit through 'A Clockwork Orange' without even flinching, so the
'realistic' first 25 minutes of 'Saving Private Ryan' was just like water
off a ducks back, to use the cliche.What really got to me about this movie was the element of compromise that
marred 'Saving Private Ryan'. The introductory shot displaying that oh so
wonderful 'stars and stripes' waving in the breeze. Perhaps it was
national
pride that caused the Second World War? Unforgivable. The return of this
shot at the as yet far away conclusion of the film did little to appease
my
growing sense of ridicule at the film.However, on a positive note that famous first 25 minutes was a fairly fine
piece of cinema. Fast, well coordinated, well coloured (not that I really
know what I'm talking about here). But after such a fine beginning
Speilburg
simply cannot stop the movie slipping downhill from here. I got the
impression that 'Saving Private Ryan' was two hours of relative nothing
buffered by 20 minutes of pro-Yankee violence at each end. And, I'm sad to
say, that is how the war came across. The Germans were still faceless,
nameless enemies. Nazi's. The German film 'Stalingrad' (which I believe
does
the whole war thing far better than this effort) gives an excellent
insight
into the German side of things.So, in brief:* Far too patriotic for a modern day war film* Emptiness in between introduction and conclusion (totaling 2
hours)Still was above average though. But 'Saving Private Ryan' is by no means
the
greatest war film ever. There are many films which do the whole war thing
much more sensitively, poetically, chaotically, brutally, realistically,
bluntly, subtly. The
greatest criticism I have for 'Saving Private Ryan' is that I didn't leave
the cinema hating humanity for what it put all those involved in the war
through, and showing what humanity was capable of. Which other movies do.
It
would appear that Spielberg decided against this perhaps for fear of
diminishing his American audience, who might not have flocked to his movie
in mainstream numbers if it were to put forward any message that suggested
that ALL involved in wars are victims, not just the Americans.

******
15 June 1999
4

After looking at some of the other comments, I am relieved to find out that
I am not the only person that does not worship this movie. Yes, the D-Day
invasion scenes were great and Tom Hanks was up to form, but the middle of
the movie was so schmaltzy that I really couldn't get into it. Frankly, I
resented the fact that they thought that my emotions could be manipulated
by
the cliched characters and sentimental dialogue that dominated the middle
of
the movie. Although my opinion appears to be in the minority, it is
reassuring to know that there are a fair number of people who share
it.
Final analysis: 4/10
Watch first 1/2 hour or so and skip the rest.

******
13 June 1999
7

This movie could not have been more violent if it tried.  For this reason
I
feel a lot of incidents were added for nothing other than the shock value,
such as the when the German soldier slowly stabs the American private
(which, by the way, was the sickest thing I've ever seen in a movie, done
to
the character I liked the best!)  I fully understand that war is hell, but
I
thought it was very unlikely that the German would have gone up the stairs
in that way, and end up killing by a knife.  I feel the scene was included
(awkwardly) for only the shock value.  Because of this I lost respect for
the movie.  The storyline was good and the re-creation of the war was also
very good, but because of the above reasons I wouldn't consider it a great
movie.

******
3 June 1999
4

Amid the din produced by those crowing about the authenticity and power of
the opening sequence of Saving Private Ryan, is it worth it, knowing you
cannot match the volume of these shouts, to even peep that what follows
is,
for more reasons than fingers and toes, a bad movie? Is it worth it to
mention that the characters and the script seem to come straight out of a
text book of movie cliches? Is it worth it to note how emotionally simple
Spielberg thinks his audience when he resorts to a long closing shot of
the
American flag waving in the wind, and, cannibalizing his own Schindler's
List at the end?

******
29 May 1999
6

Everything you've heard about the first thirty minutes of "Saving Private
Ryan" is true: it is indeed genuinely disturbing, realistic and
unglamorous
footage of war. But after that, you're in John Wayne country, kids! All
the
standard cliche war movie elements are giddily present and accounted for,
right down to the apelike Nazi soldiers and the "we gotta take out that
bridge" scenario! "SPR" is indeed a good war movie, but you're not going
to
come out of it thinking to yourself "Now I understand the terrible price
that we as a free nation must pay for peace." You'll be thinking "Man,
that
scene with the tank blowing up totally ruled!"     

******
21 May 1999
3
... so you can see The Thin Red Line afterwards and marvel at how
wonderful
the latter is. I'm sure Mr Spielberg thought he was doing us all a favour
by
enlightening us on the nature of war: "hey, everyone! It's BAD - but
necessary." Oh my. That was shocking. (Oh, the sarcasm!) I'm being
flippant;
let me qualify my statements. I do not doubt or belittle the fact that SPR
was of great emotional worth and moral value to many people, some of whom
are far more qualified than I to judge...
... but hell, that little demon inside just wants to be heard. And it says
some nasty things. I came into this film wanting to _see_ a film - as
opposed to three hours of histrionics and melodrama, dressed up as a
serious
and worthy discussion of war.
Worthy - that's the word. Mr Spielberg wants to be _worthy_. He wants to
teach us all about patriotism and freedom and evil and good and The
American
Way. Frankly it was rather offensive. Not his general intent (which was
indeed worthy), but rather the manner in which he set about it (which was
not worthy). Emotive scenes of slaughter, stereotyping of good and evil
characters, simple resolutions, a gimmick in the form of "stickybombs" -
all
rather fairyfloss, fairytale elements in a supposedly hardcore, realistic
film. From a historian's point of view, it spoke loudly of propaganda.A review of '90s films would be incomplete without Saving Private Ryan,
and
no doubt it will continue to be hailed as "the greatest war film of all
time". For those reasons alone, see Saving Private Ryan. But please don't
believe the hype.

******
19 May 1999
6

The beginning and ending of this film are very vivid, but the middle slows
down to a point where it loses its intensity, and therefore can't be
ranked
among the best war films. The best ones remain intense ALL the way
through.
The film does stand out for not being as patriotic as all other WWII
films;
it actually shows the "War is hell" side that we only really see in
Vietnam
War films.  But it p****s me off Spielberg can show hanging intestines,
severed limbs and other atrocities that all other film makers (especially
horror film makers) are given NC-17s
for. Yet Mr. Infallible can get away with it because he's making a
"meaningful" film. 

******
2 March 1999
6

Heck, this is only the third best war movie nominated for Best Picture in
1998. The D-Day Invasion scene is amazing. The problem I have with the movie
Saving Private Ryan is the whole Saving Private Ryan part. The tale seems
trite and uninspiring. I want to care about a core group of characters or at
least one. That's what draws me to The Deer Hunter (78) or this year's Life
is Beautiful. There are so many war movies out there that were amazing. I
will grant you that Saving Private Ryan is the most accurate telling of
D-Day, but heck it's not up for Best Documentary. If Saving Private Ryan
wins Best Picture, it will be the second Tom Hanks movie of the 90s that
did not deserve the award.

******
10 February 1999
10

Once again the egotistic stupidity of my fellow man has not failed to amaze
me. I contiuously read in these comments about how people from other
countries are offended by the Stars and Stripes flying in the "bookends" of
SPR, or how "Pro-American" the movies is.TOO BAD!We Americans have every right to feel proud. The AMERICAN army took Omaha
Beach; not the British, not the Canadians, and not the French. Yes, every
nation I just mentioned sacrificed its young men in the fight against Nazi
Germany; they all had casualties on D-Day, we all know that. But wake up
people, get a clue. THIS IS A MOVIE ABOUT AMERICAN SOLDIERS. It is not about
D-Day, (see the Longest Day for that) it is not about saving the world, or
answering the meaning of life. What it is is a FICTIONAL story about a
small AMERICAN group of soldiers fighting to survive.When I watch Das Boot, I don't sit and whine about the fact that I don't see
any Americans, or there are only British warships shown. I take it for what
it is supposed to be, a story about men under extreme circumstances trying
to serve their country, do their job, and stay alive.  I suggest you all
(you know who you are) grow up a little, come back down to earth, and look
at SPR for what is supposed to be: ENTERTAINMENT! Very simply, IT is a
movie, a tribute from Mr. Spielberg to his father who was a WWII vet.
Nothing more.If you still don't get "IT", if you're still offended, if you're still
whining because American soldiers stood tall on a tough day 50 years ago,
TOUGH! KISS MY RED WHITE AND BLUE A**! 

******
11 January 1999
10

Well... I saw this movie when it first came out.  I really didn't know what
to expect, but I must say that I was impressed.  I have never seen camera
direction quite like that.  Everything about this movie was very well
done.I have spoken with a lot of vets and historians who said that was a pretty
close to how things were on the front.  The only thing was that there was
smoke on the beach which they couldn't put in the movie because we need to
see what's going on.I'm a pretty young guy (young enough to be drafted), and that movie allowed
me to know that I never have to go to combat.  Steven did a great job of
almost putting me in the war.The sound is absolutely amazing!  I felt myself wanting to duck as the
bullets whizzed by my head.I must confess that the fist time I saw SPR I was so caught up in the
violence and intensity of the film the plot was somewhat muddled.  I was
compelled to go back and watch it again though.  The second time around, it
made a lot more sense and as a result, became a better movie to me.  It is
now one of my top 5 films of all time.


******
9 January 1999
6

Spielberg tries to make up for weak characterization and plot by use of
extremely graphic imagery.  Why should I care about Ryan, I know nothing
about him, except for the part of all his brothers being dead.  Should I
care about him just because he decided to stay with his platoon rather than
return home? Please give me something.  And Hanks, he´s had better parts and
his performance is way overrated. I like him as much as anyone, but even his
performance in BIG is better.  In summary SPR is a movie that looks great,
sounds great, but lacks a solid plot and character development (very much
like the over-hyped Titanic). 

******
1 January 1999
7

Some films make you laugh, or cry, or they shock you into thinking,or
whatever, this just makes you go urrgh!  Graphic violence to no particular
end other than this "freak out the audience" factor.
Nevertheless, it's well made, well acted and is moving, but for some bizarre
reason Spielberg is overcome by a massive need for a disgracefully cheesy
ending which, quite frankly, does make you look at the rest of the film in a
different light. 

******
13 December 1998
6

I'm sure that the first scene is one of the most important of the entire
cinema history, but the movie is too long and it's full of all the classical
american stereotypes: the evil german, the importance of the family and of
course the last scene in the graveyard. Spielberg is the best director, but
I don't understand why he still continues on this triviality. My vote is  6.
thanks.
LILLO

******
28 November 1998
7

This is a 'nice movie'. But there's something that makes this movie a 'nice
movie', instead of a 'bad' movie: the war scenes. The first 30 minutes of
the movie might be the best 30 minutes of the year, and one of the best 30
minutes of the film history.  It's incredible. Those images are an
inspiration for moviemakers, those minutes are a filmmaking lesson. Those
bloody, disgusting, violent scenes make everybody get shoked. I mean, you're
in the World War II.  You feel you're there, It's an incredible
masterpiece... But that's it. It's over. One of the greatest films ever stops
just there, thirty minutes after the film starts. The rest of the movie does
not 'fit' with those 30 minutes. Or I'm afraid that I should say those 30
minutes are the ones that don't fit the movie. It's like as if Spielberg had
made that scene just for saying "hey, see how violent and disgusting I can
be?. The rest of the movie might be made for the people who were  born in
USA. And since I was born in Uruguay, I didn't like it at all. Because the
Americans are always the 'good guys', the only ones who have feelings. Why
didn't Steven Spielberg take a look at the Germans? Weren't they afraid too?
And what about the last shot of the movie, that American flag?. Hey, I like
American people, I really do, but this movie just make them  say "Hey, I'm
proud to be an American. My country is the best country of the world." That
might be true, but there's something called modesty...


******
18 November 1998
10

I saw Saving Private Ryan 4 times.  The first time, on opening day, I
entered the darkened theatre with about 12 other people, most of them my
dad's age-W.W.II vets. I went in with no preconceived notions, I read no
advance reviews. I began to cry a couple minutes into it, beginning with
that sweeping view of the cemetary, all those row upon row of white crosses.
I was completely blown away by the battle scenes that followed; the praying,
terrified boys in the boats, the machine-gun slaughter and the sound of
those gunshots, the blood washing up on shore. My hands had gouges in the
palms where my fingernails dug in. I left the theatre that day completely
drained, useless.
I went back a few days later so I might view the movie with a little more
detachment and pick up some finer details. While the opening scenes were
still jarring, I was a bit more composed to appreciate the other fine
qualities and moments in this film.
The characters-perfect in their lightly sketched state,  especially the
characters of Jackson the sniper and Wade the medic. The camera
work-astonishing, especially in the battle sequences. The memorable little
speeches- Wade in the church, talking about his mom. The pilot of the downed
plane reliving the crash. Reiben pensively discussing his customers breast
size. The death scenes-Wade getting killed and the desperate attempt of his
companions to save him. Tom Hanks losing it after that point, his hold on
sanity slipping. Mellish stabbed thru the heart, begging for
mercy.
Months later these things are all very distinct in my mind as is the eerie,
screeching whine of that tank lumbering into the rubble-strewn town at the
beginning of the final battle.
While this was not a perfect film, it came close. I embrace the reaction of
four different film audiences as my own. Never in my life have I been to a
movie, once, twice or even four times and had entire audiences go deadly
silent. In SPR no-one moved, no-one spoke, a great many boys, girls, men and
women wept. After the movie ended, people stayed in their seats, stunned.  I
have never felt such a universal bonding of emotion that I did during that
film.  And that is why Saving Private Ryan is so special.  In this hopeless
age, where life is so cheap and the world has become cynical and hardened to
death and disaster, it is a relief to know we can still react to atrocities,
such as Spielberg showed in this film,  like human beings.Thanks.         

******
23 October 1998
4

While Spielberg manages to show the cruelty of war, this film in my opinion
is nevertheless dangerous, as it in a subtle way promotes war rather than
despising it. Spielberg wants us to make believe that under certain
conditions war is a necessity and legitimate way of solving conflicts. In my
point of view this is at least debatable.
I don't like this movie, although it is very well done from a technical
point of view. I don't like because it tries to make war presentable again
rather than trying to show how to avoid it. Sorry, but this time I cannot
agree to the underlying message of this movie, regardless how masterly
skilled this message has been transformed into pictures.

******
13 October 1998
10

Phew, where do you start? A film that shows at last what bullets and bombs
do to the human body. A film that shows that war is not about glory and
seeing off a few of the enemy before getting home for tea. It makes me
wonder how those men stayed sane when they got home, IF they got home. I
found the film compelling and very, very disturbing. All too many American
blockbuster films show people blazing away and the nasty men meeting their
fate,but this one I believe is as close as a film has got to getting
anywhere near the truth, if the vets accounts are anything to go by. And if
it is, then I'm bloody glad I wasn't 18 in 1944...The most moving part of the film for me was when the troop attacked some
kind of radar installation, on the way to finding Private Ryan. After the
attack one chap lies there with bullet holes in his chest, whilst his mates
try and help him. Slowly he starts slipping away, and cries out for his
mother, and his home. It's a scene that's still with me, weeks after seeing
the movie. Another splendid side of the film for me was that there wasn't a
clean cut, gung - ho, invincible hero to be seen...just normal, ordinary,
and very scared men.Any flaws? Well, for me personally, the very end was a little too
sentimental, but that's the directors trade mark, I suppose. All in all, a
terrific, pulsating, horrific and terrifying film from my point of view. I
don't think I'll ever look at an old man in quite the same way
again.

******
12 October 1998
10

There is very much to be said about this film but I'll cut it
short.
This is a VERY powerful film. I may be a sensitive person but let me tell
you that when watching Titanic I merely felt embarrassed by the sobs around me
but while watching "...Private Ryean" I actually had to fight back the
tears, especially during those 30 first minutes of slaughter. It felt so
real and I started to imagine how i would have reacted in the same
situation. Probably break down totally.This film should be watched by anybody, unless you're too weak hearted that
is.

******
8 October 1998
10

As I have read the many reviews of "Saving Private Ryan," I've noticed,
particularly from the more "serious" publications, that "serious" critics
insist on separating the bulk of the film from its bookend scenes of Ryan at
the Normandy cemetery.  Those scenes, I've read several times, are "false,"
"ham-handed," or "manipulative."  They could not be more
wrong.These scenes, which begin and end with an American flag shining in the sun,
illustrate the gap between the generation of men who crossed through Hell on
Earth so that the sun would continue to shine on this country and its
liberties, and the succeeding generations who, perhaps, have failed to fully
appreciate the debt they owe and the honor due those men who defeated Nazi
Germany and Fascist Japan.In the opening, we see an old veteran, walking alone, his wife trailing him,
and trailing her, the children and grandchildren.  We see the son, acting
more like a tourist, whose emotional distance from his father is shown by
the intrusive clicking and winding of his camera.  Yet, we also see the
entire family rushing to his side as he collapses in grief, wanting
desperately to comfort him in some way.At the end, we realize that the old man is Ryan, which is perhaps the only
flaw in this otherwise magnificent film.  For this conflicts with the
implication from the beginning when the camera zooms toward the old man's
eyes to what seem to be his memories of Omaha Beach.  If Ryan dropped behind
German lines with the 101st Airborne Division, how could he remember what
happened on the beach?  After some thought, I figured that Rieben, the one
survivor of Omaha Beach in Captain Miller's squad, might well have told Ryan
as they made their way back to HQ all that those men who found Ryan went
through.Some critics have been particularly critical of the last scene, with Ryan
imploring his wife to reassure him that has, indeed, "earned" what Miller's
squad did for him.  I think the scene has far more depth than its critics
have given it credit for, particularly in light of an earlier
scene.Recall the lull between the Americans' defense preparations in "Roumel" and
the final street battle with SS troops, when Miller (Tom Hanks) and Ryan
(Matt Damon) come to know each other a little better in a conversation that
cannot help but be disconcerting to Miller.Remarking on Miller's teaching occupation, Ryan jokes that he could never be
a teacher himself, having driven his teachers crazy.  "You're just like a
thousand kids I've seen," Miller says, probably remembering when he said to
Sgt. Horvath, "This Ryan had better cure cancer or invent a longer lasting
light bulb."That Ryan doesn't seem particularly special is only reinforced when the only
clear memory Ryan can dredge from his brain about his brothers is a prank
which embarrassed the oldest brother, humiliated a half-naked girl, nearly
destroyed the family barn, and shows too clearly that Ryan, for all his
incipient nobility in refusing to abandon his brothers in arms, is still a
male adolescent for whom the line between humor and cruelty is rather
blurred.  This makes Miller's tight grin and diplomatic chuckle all the more
poignant.As the years passed, I would imagine that Ryan would remember that
conversation, and as he matured, realized how superficial he must have
seemed to the older Miller, who died that Ryan might live.  We can only
guess how heavy it would have weighed on Ryan that he could not show Miller
the life he had lived since then, and could not finally know whether he had
"earned" Miller's gift.  I fail to see anything resembling a "false note"
here.To the rest of us, the cross with Miller's name, followed by Old Glory in
the bright sun speaks to us in two ways.  It illustrates at what a price our
freedom and well-being have been bought.  And with the colors absorbed by
the sunlight, thus giving the flag a faded look, it places at our feet
Miller's charge to Ryan that he "earn this" with equal urgency.  Whether we
have earned or squandered this legacy is the question that every person
watching "Saving Private Ryan" should take to heart.Finally, a personal note. In 1994, My wife, my son and I had the pleasure of
meeting a veteran of the 82nd Airborne Div.  When he left for France to
participate in the paratrooper reenactment, we shook hands, and I told him
how honored I was to have met him.  "You're a good man, and you have a
beautiful family," he replied.  Given the source, I cannot remember ever
receiving a higher compliment.  A false note? Of course not.  And neither is
the ending of "Saving Private Ryan."


******
29 September 1998
9

This is the only war movie I have ever seen which is able to really show the
true fear of the soldiers. No exaggerated heroes, just men. However I have
seen something that wasn't right. I'm not sure if it is a goof or that a
small part of the movie is missing. I have seen it in The Netherlands and
noticed that Tom Hanks only tells his soldiers his past. When they finally
find Ryan and decide to stay, there is a small scene in which Ryan tells Tom
Hanks about his brothers. Ryan starts this conversation with a question
about Tom Hank's wife and her rosegarden (I believe its a rosegarden, but it
could as well simply be roses). Tom Hanks does not answer and says that he's
going to keep that story to himself. Ryan however does not know anything
about his wife....Even though this continues to raise questions for me as to if it's a goof or
simply due to a cut, I love the movie! Steven Spielberg out did himself
(again).

******
24 September 1998
5
After all the hype it is fair to say that the first 25 minutes are the
finest, most brutal depiction of warfare the screen has seen yet. It is
also clear that after years of having the ridiculous notion of war as
cool thrust down our throats, such a horrifying depiction in a
genuinely mainstream picture was needed. However after such a
dazzlingly brilliant start, when the story kicks in we find Spielberg
merely trotting out the old clichés we've seen so many times before.
Again we're told how glorious, noble and almost desirable it is to die
for our country, how the Germans were little more than cartoon
villains, and most sickeningly, through the character of the young
interpreter, how the correct response to the horrors of war is to lose
your innocent disbelief that this could happen and join in. What makes
this so sad is the fact that in the accurate depiction of the battles
Spielberg has already shown how hollow these notions are. Death in war
is as empty and disgusting as any other painful, violent death; at the
level of the ordinary soldier the Allies were as scared and selfish as
the Germans; and surely the reaction of the interpreter, as he lay
sobbing on the battlefield, out of his mind with fear, is the most
honest and sane reaction to mass slaughter one could have.

******
14 September 1998
10

I saw this film with my best friend Jo. We went into the cinema in happy,
 good moods. We walked out in floods of tears. The two of us sat, through
 almost the entire film, gripping onto each others hands. A film has never
 done this to me before, and I thought Titanic was bad! The acting was
 superb and the special affects were amazing. It really made you feel as if
 you were there. Even though in real life, so I'm told, the lives of eight
 men would not have been risked for saving just one, I feel that the rest of
 the film was as real as it good be. Spielberg deserves a medal for this
 one.

******
29 July 1998
10
After seeing Saving Private Ryan, I was changed forever.  As a person twice
 removed from the war generation (18 years of age), my only experience from
 the great World War II were from films such as "The Longest Day" and 
"Patton", all seemed to make me want to make a contribution equivalent, as
 far as fighting for my country, but after seeing "Saving Private Ryan" I
 wish to make a contribution as equal to those who fought and died, but I no
 longer wish to endure that hardship, and that is a luxury we as a
 generation can enjoy.

******
24 June 2015
10
I'm A huge War film buff, especially WW2 and this in my opinion is the
best of them all.The thing that made this movie great for me was the realism and
feelings for the characters. You actually feel for them, which IMO only
a few war films seem to bring.The opening scene(Omaha Beach) I would rate up there as one of the
greatest scenes in movie history!. The realism, the camera swaying all
over the place going in and out of the water, the bullets whizzing past
and the screaming. Its just bloody amazing and so full on that it can't
be topped!.I have watched this movie countless times and it still never gets old
to me.10/10 a memorable movie that is a must see

******
16 October 2014
10
Great movie was made by real Actors and Very Professionals . It Very wealthy Icon that express courage, war , and Sacrifice for good
purposes . Each actor in this movie did a good job acting with all their
Possibilities . Tom hanks as always did perfect dramatic performance , he succeeded to
have our attention throw the war. The motion picture was new to our eyes and graphics was made with great
effort , it was quite well .This whole movie was great in writing,Acting and Directing .

******
30 September 2014
10
The 1998 war/drama film "Saving Private Ryan" directed by Steven
Spielberg was an incredible film that was very realistic and had a
storyline that kept viewers captivated until the very end. The film was
rated R due to its gory war scenes and use of profanity. No young child
should see the violence that this film captured to create realistic war
scenes. The setting of this movie was the Invasion of Normandy during
World War II. The explicit scenes had blood pouring out of soldiers,
soldiers with limbs cut off, men screaming and shaking, and soldiers
being shot. All of this captured the brutality of World War II in such
a way that the audience could feel the adrenaline and fear that each
one of those soldiers would have been facing out on the battle field.
The gruesomeness of the movie forces the viewer to have respect for the
soldiers for moving forward with their duties even though they are
surrounded by death of not only their enemies but their friends. The special effects throughout the entire movie were incredible. The
explosions of fire and dust were very realistic to an actual bomb going
off. All of the sounds of gun shots gave the image of a battle field
even when one closed their eyes. It had to have taken a lot of effort
to put together scenes where so many men were shot in various places.
The opening battle scene, where the United States Army was trying to
secure Omaha Beach was almost as if World War II was recorded and the
real footage was put into the movie. Men had blood spewing out of their
wounds where they were shot, some of their limbs were completely gone,
and one man laid on the ground holding his intestines into his body.
Another scene had a soldier being held by his friends after being shot
many times. Each wound had blood pouring out of it so realistically
that I had to turn away from the screen. These are just a few examples
of the almost too realistic wounds that could make the audience feel
nauseous if they were too squeamish about blood.The storyline to the movie was one that could capture the attention of
a wide range of audiences. It was a movie on history, war, friendships,
comradery and family. Several of the infantry members sent on the
mission to find a man who lost all of his brothers to war could not
understand why they had to risk their lives to tell a single man he was
allowed to go home. Many of them started out their journey mocking the
boy, saying he would not be worth it. When they finally found him and
told him that he was allowed to go home and he refused to leave the men
he was with behind, it sparked a fire in the men that the audience
could see. The inspiration the audience felt when a man who just found
out he had lost three of his brothers stays to help defend the people
in his unit was overwhelming. Not only did he stay and so did the rest
of the men who came to find him, but most of those men died willingly
to protect their country and save the young boy to give him a chance at
going home alive.Tom Hanks portrayed Captain Miller, one of the main characters
throughout the movie. He did a fantastic job with presenting the
characters mental dilemmas. We see him struggling throughout the movie
with an uncontrollable shaking hand but whenever someone asked if he
was alright, he avoided the question and just moved on. We are able to
tell that the war is taking a toll on his mental health because often
we see him staring off, hearing nothing, when he is in the middle of
combat. The viewer sympathizes because we see the tremendous amount of
stress he is under. He sees all of the same things that the soldiers he
is commanding are, yet he has to remain strong and act as though none
of the brutality phases him. The movie ends in a heart wrenching scene
where Captain Miller dies saving Private Ryan, even though he had the
chance to go home and see his wife before he made the decision to stay
and help defend the small group of men Private Ryan did not want to
abandon. His final words hit home to Private Ryan and the audience as
he tells Private Ryan to "earn it". The impact that those two words had
on Private Ryan are taken throughout his life because at the end of the
movie we see him getting emotional in front of Captain Millers grave,
where he asks his wife if he was a decent man. It was a tear jerking
moment as the audience got to whiteness a grown soldier asking for the
respect of a man who died saving his life. All 170 minutes of "Saving
Private Ryan" were captivating and exhilarating. As I sat watching the
film I felt as though I was on the battle field with these men getting
to know each and every one of them. Each personality came through even
if they did not speak many words. This film is a 5 star movie and is
worth seeing because it will have you trying to fight back the tears,
whether male or female at the end.

******
22 September 2014
10
Saving Private Ryan is beautiful. It's emotional. It's violent. And
it's probably the best movie set in a war ever made. It is a truly
epic. Spielberg's directing here is phenomenal. Every cast member give
great performances, making every character memorable. The set design is
also marvelous. As I said earlier, this movie is violent. And not just
over the top violence that you may find in a Quentin Tarantino movie.
This violence is very real. It's horrifying to watch hundreds of
soldiers die in the Ohama Beach scene. But without that brutality, this
movie wouldn't have worked. It needed to affect its audience. It needed
to provide a realistic look at World War II. And it worked.

******
12 May 2014
5
Living the war with Private Ryan."Saving Private Ryan" is a fantastic film by Steven Spielberg and
written by Robert Rodatin colors which was produced in 1998 in America.
It's a wonderful war, drama and action film about World War II. We find
such well-known actors as Tom Hanks (playing the role of Captain John
Miller), Tom Sizemore (playing the role of Sergeant Michael Horvath),
Edward Burns (as Private Reiben), Barry Pepper (as Private Jackson),
Matt Damon (as the role of Private Ryan), Adam Goldberg (as Private
Mallish) and Vin Diesel as Private Caparzo.While the Allied Force land to Omaha Beach, Miller has to lead his
platoon behind the enemy lines for a dangerous mission : find and
return safe and sound Private James Francis Ryan, who's got three
brothers who died in the fight within three days. While the platoon
progresses on enemy territory, Miller's men wonder themselves : is it
necessary to risk the life of eight men to save the only one from it ?
The acting presence of the actors is successful, we feel different
emotions with actors, the pain when, for instance, two policemen
announce to Mrs. Ryan that her three sons are dead. There is no
dialogue and it makes us understand that there are no words to talk
about death. We can't put some words, some "good" words not to destroy
somebody to soften the pain. Steven Spielberg Reveals that. We can see
this old woman falling down on the ground, devastated and this scene
tear our heart. Sometimes, the camera zooms on a soldier's face and we
feel deeply in our chest that they are petrified and they transmit this
feeling very well.This film is visually breath-taking, because of the landscapes and the
sets are so realistic that we lose ourselves in them and live ,
discover the atrocities of the war at the same time as the soldiers. We
follow them, we belong to the platoon. And on top of that, sometimes we
are surprised to hear an explosion, to see the ground explode as
fireworks, as if it were next to us. It permits the spectator to live
the war as never. We are both an actor and a soldier.The story line is down-to-earth : first, there is no love story like in
"Pear Harbor" which gives a "sweet side" to the story. Here, there are
only blood, bravery, brotherhood, fights and a duty to fulfill. It
permits the spectator to really know what happened during D-Day.
Moreover, even the good characters die, some scenes are violent, for
instance, when a German stabs a Jew very slowly to make him suffer
because it's important to say that during World War II, Germans tried
to eliminate all the Jews : it's called a genocide. This film doesn't
hide the reality of war.But this beautiful and fantastic film reveals something about soldiers
during World War II : they were both loving and ruthless. They are
presented as survivors and heroes (soldiers are always filmed with the
high angle shot except when they are crying or dying because at this
moment they are weak), respectful men, brave because they face danger
even if they are afraid because they are willing to fulfill their duty
for their country, wives and children. And we can see this at the
beginning of the film when the American soldiers land to Normandy. Tom
Hanks appears totally lost, his helmet on the floor, he discovers the
nightmare of war. He could have given up, but we can finally see a
light of determination on his eyes and all of a sudden, he catches his
helmet and put it on his head : he really wants to achieve his duty.
He's courageous. Soldiers also appear self-sacrificing and brotherhood
is highlighted in this film. Because they landed together and they will
come back home together, no matter what The music by John Williams
contributes to release feelings deep in the chest of the spectator. And
music is useful to carve the image of the soldier. We have a patriotic
music when, for instance, a soldier talks about his life at home with
his family, to show that they are heroes and that they will come back
home or to show that they had to leave them behind to accomplish their
duty for the country. So the spectator is totally overwhelmed with
feelings thanks to music which makes soldiers appear both brave and
heart-broken because they miss their family. And we can identify
ourselves to them ; it's a very moving film which turns our hearts
upside down.This film received two awards : in 1999, Steven Spielberg got a Golden
Globe for the Best Director of a Motion Picture with "Saving Private
Ryan". Then, in 1999, the film "Saving Private Ryan" received a Golden
Globe for the best Motion Picture. Moreover, the film received some
good critics : The New York Times said "This film simply looks at war
as if war had not been looked at before." Which was very positive. In
The city Review, Carter B. Horsley said "With extreme gore, deep
sincerity, fabulous cinematography and great acting, "Saving Private
Ryan" is a stupendous movie."."Saving Private Ryan" is a film which remains important in time, it
echoes to the past, without lies. It presents World War II soldiers as
self-sacrificing heroes and they can be fathers, brothers too : they
have a heart. "Saving Private Ryan" will never stop moving us and make
us admire what soldiers did, to help us to live in the world that we
know nowadays.By Sangiorgio Marine.

******
13 February 2014
10
This film contains one of the best war scenes i have ever seen. I am
talking about the D-Day (the landing and the effort of the Americans to
break Germans defenses). It is so realistic. Plenty of shooting,
bombing, killing. Really breathtaking. I have read many history books
and articles and i think the recreation of this battle is epic. I can
admit that since i first saw this movie when i read a new article
regarding this battle, the scenes of this movie come in mind. Only a
few movies or serials have so intense battle depictions.One that comes
in mind is the serial Band of Brothers. Of course not only this part of
the movie, but the whole movie is worth to be seen. Enjoy it, surely
recommend it.

******
23 January 2014
10
This movie set the benchmarks of how World War II was to a whole new
level. I mean if you look at how dramatic this movie is, the level of
realism, and in fact how touching this story is... you'll never want to
see another WW2 movie.Primarily I like the big names in this movie, they are not to bad, in
fact they are more than OK. Spielberg has managed to bring a crew
together and make them act like they are brothers in arms.The effects are stunning, the whole camera shaking, dirt exploding, the
landscapes and the small towns... I remember playing Medal of Honor
back in those days and it was if they were made by the same person. The
exact outfits, guns, helmets... etc.

******
14 January 2014
10
I've been an avid fan of war films ever since I was a kid. I was fond
of seeing movies where soldiers are holding out on their own and
winning against their opponent even though the odds are overwhelmingly
against them. That's why when I got to see Spielberg's Saving Private
Ryan, I instantly got hooked. The realism of the movie is great and it showed me another side of the
war  its gruesomeness. It made me realize that no matter what rank or
whether that person is of utmost importance, it won't matter in front
of a speeding bullet heading towards his head or a mortar about to land
near him. The way the movie was depicted, blown-off body parts and all,
was very real that it sometimes made me shiver whenever I think that I
was that person getting shot  lucky me, huh? The portrayal of each of the cast was unbelievably real, especially
that part where the general was about to send that letter to Ryan's
mother and his story  I really got emotional right there. Well, I'm
not going to spoil you the details, especially if you haven't watched
it yet. The movie is a must watch and there are numbers that can prove
it. In a nutshell, Saving Private Ryan is a movie that deserves to be
called "the best".

******
26 October 2013
9
One of the remarkable piece of movie marvel by Steven Spielberg. If
Spielberg has added the directorial ingredient then Tom Hanks has
ensured the perfect cooking of the added ingredient. The movie scores
highly on emotional content by balancing the war scenarios. Added onto
that is the amazing music given by John Williams, which further takes
the movie to new heights. In fact, the music resonates with the heart
and soul of the viewer and delivers the essence of this fine art
remarkably. The last few words by Capt. Miller "James earn this... Earn
it".. really leave the profound impact on the heart reaching out to the
every nook and corner of it. Tom Hanks has always been a treat to eyes
and I was never disappointed after watching his movies. And this movie
escalates him to the newer heights. At the end, a worth movie to watch
for .....

******
21 October 2013
10
To call this movie a masterpiece is an understatement. What Spielberg
has done here has transcended the viewing of a motion picture and
created an experience in movie making. This is emotional, unbelievable
storytelling and a depiction of a war that makes you feel like you are
there. Now is this the most original story ever told? No. The storm of
Normandy has been shown before. The story has been told before. (This
is pretty much another story like that of the Brother's Sullivan, who
are talked about in the movie)However - It has NEVER been depicted like this EVER! The first thirty
minutes of this movie will have you glued to the screen. If there is
popcorn in front of you it will NOT be getting touched let alone passed
anywhere. It is brutal, real, amazing, shocking, TRUE and for a movie
the most real battle scene ever put on screen. Spielberg puts you on
the beach. The sounds alone envelope you. This is a movie for the big
screen and surround sound. Also, I must mention the amazing John
William's musical score is nothing less then brilliant accompanying the
visuals on screen. That music alone tells such an emotional fantastic
story!Actual War veterans who lived through this part of our history said for
the most part that what you are seeing on screen by Spielberg is the
closest thing ever depicted of that war besides actually being there.
(Some could not finish watching the scene) So if you want to see a
movie that is so much more then a movie. See this! It centers around
one of the most important wars if not the most important for this
country and the rest of the world. To be clear though, this movie is
not just about that war. The story is told during that time period of
our history centering on this one battalions search for a man.OK, how about the rest of the movie? The searching and hopefully the
rescue of Private Ryan? Excellent! You will be interested and want to
know what happens. A great cast and masterful movie making keep you
glued to the end. Oh and Mr. Spielberg does a fantastic job in book
ending this movie with two wonderful scenes that tie it all together.I original saw this with my dad on it's original release in theaters.
After the movie I asked him what he thought. He literally could not
speak for like twenty minutes. You walk away experiencing something so
much more then a movie. A small glimpse of our history and US as human
beings enduring all the horror, war, laughter, tears and ultimately
family and love that keep us wanting to go on.

******
7 September 2013
10
Wow... I've seen this movie once before, and I decided to watch it
again this evening and it had the same effect on me that it did the
first time I watched it. Saving Private Ryan is a movie that stays with
you long after you watch it.It is affecting and moving, gritty and
powerful. You watch this film and you see the hell that is war.You see
what it does to people, it dehumanizes them , it strips away their
moral compass, their values.The movie is violent and sickeningly
realistic, but its violence and graphic scenes are not numbing, you are
never detached from the what the soldiers are going through. You watch
the action unfold and you are there, you are there feeling the pain of
the soldiers.Steven Spielberg has once again drawn us in emotionally to
the story. Just as he did with Schindler's list, he uses his gift for
compelling story telling and character development, to immerse us in
the story,to make us care for the characters.The acting was top notch
as well. Tom Hanks,as Capt. John Miller, did an amazing job,probably
one of his best roles(besides Forrest Gump and Philadelphia) as did
Matt Damon (Private Ryan). The whole cast was perfect and fit right
into each of their roles. The underlying score of John Williams, one of
my favorite score composers(E.T, Jurassic Park, Star wars, etc.),was
used in the right moments,creating tension and at other times, tugging
at your heart strings.One of the best movies by Spielberg and ONE of
the best WWII movies(not the best but one of them).

******
6 June 2013
9
The fact that it didn't win Best Picture is outrageous. It was great
from start to finish. The opening scene with the old man crumble in
front of headstones is emotional. The music score by John Williams is
amazing. That image became the opening scene of Saving Private Ryan,
directed by Steven Spielberg. The film tells the story of a mission
following the D-day invasion. The movie starts Tom Hanks as Captain
Miller, a soldier's soldier, who must takes a small band of troops
behind enemy lines to retrieve a private whose three brothers have
recently been killed in action. It's a public relations move for the
Army, but it has historical precedent dating back to the Civil War. His
mission to find Private James Ryan (Matt Damon) and bring him back to
the United States so that it can save the family's bloodline and help
softly the mother's grief. Some critics of the film have labeled the
central characters stereotypes. If that is so, this movie gives
stereotypes a good name: Tom Sizemore starts as the deft sergeant,
Edward Burns as the hotheaded Private Reiben, Barry Pepper as the
religious sniper, Adam Goldberg as the lone Jew, Vin Diesel as the
oversize Private Caparzo, Giovanni Ribisi as the soulful medic, and
Jeremy Davies, who as a meek corporal gives the film its most memorable
performance. I understand the everyman quality of the average soldier.
There were also a lot of actors that you wouldn't have thought for
once, playing soldiers as supporting characters such as Ted Danson,
Bryan Cranston and Paul Giamatti. Who knew they would be playing
soldiers in one of the greatest war film ever. I like how the
characters were written with everyday blue-collar Joes. It gives the
movie realistic. They are brave while scare. Good, but also bit morally
reprehensible. A great scene toward the middle of the film represented
the questioning of their own morals when it conflict the attitudes of
the war when the group captured a German Soldier. All of them has to
debate if they should just murder the man or set the man free. It's
toward the middle of the film, that the violence of the film dies down
enough, to get a few character development. It was strong enough time
to make them seem like people with the amount of screen time they got
here. Some people thinks that the movie glorified war or it's over
patriotism. I think some critics seriously misinterpreted this movie if
they think it glorified war. In movies that glorify war, there are
ridiculous outlandish characters that simply don't represent the
soldiers who fought in war. In Saving Private Ryan, the characters are
down-to-earth-ordinary. This movie also shows that in war, there are no
heroes who are guaranteed to survive. It portrays war as what it is:
violent and ugly. As pure hell. As for patriotism, I don't believe that
the film is patriotism. There are scenes of American soldiers being as
crude, cowardly, or just mean-spirited as some of the German's
soldiers. I don't think the Germans are portray unfairly. About the
fact that there were no allied forces shown was due to the fact that it
is an American film presented to an American audience. Would it had
been nice to see a British soldier in the film? Yes, but it wasn't
needed in the film. The film made younger generations understand what
happened that day and the sacrifices that were made in order to win
that war, while also telling the dangers and how bad the war really
got. The film was balance between pro war and anti-war themes. Yes,
there were a few historic accurates that wasn't corrected, but overall,
many people have call this film to be the most realistic and maybe the
best war film ever. The first 20 minutes horrifically and realistically
depicts the Normandy Invasion. The visuals are grainy, de-colorized,
and filmed in a first person aspect that convey an adrenalin driven
that been never witness in a war film before then, and since after
Saving Private Ryan, many directors have used for their war films. The
audio is astounding, and actually had me flinching during the harrowing
first twenty minutes of the film. Exceedingly realistic and recorded in
perfect three dimensional, positional audio that firmly plants you on
that horrific beach landings. After this movie came out, I saw an
interview with several D-Day survivors. They all said that the invasion
sequence was the most realistic portrayal they had ever seen. It was
like they were there again. That is strong praise from someone who
would know. Every teen aged idiot who fantasizes on war by playing
console games needs to watch this film. Show them how it really was.
It's not what it is. Overall: It is a must-watch. It's a story of
normal, average men forced into extraordinary and terrible situations
due to war and how they survive it.

******
16 March 2011
6
Many things are flawed in this fiction, which seems to be far away from
reality. This does not touch at any point. Better than "Saving Pvt.
Ryan" are "the Pianist", "Downfall", and even "Apocalypse Now". And
even the TV series of "The Pacific" is a lot better. I am not a
historian, so I may not be 100% correct in many of my thoughts. But in
my opinion the kind of sentiments that have been shown in this movie by
the military and Military General --- is unbelievable, and somehow
ridiculous. Especially if it is related to World War 2, and when
America is just getting up from the great depression. Why one boy is so
important who had been admitted to the Army to serve his country. Now
Army wants to protect this Baby!!! Funny. Every soldier has a Mom and
Wife and family. At many times when the soldiers should shoot the
enemy, they are letting him walk away in the name of POW. That kind of
kindness never happens in reality. And I listened a lot about the
opening 30 minutes scene, that it is really fantastic. But it was
horrible. The opening scene of "Shooter" was much more realistic and
exciting. Why the Army will land on the beach in such a suicidal way,
for the massacre of their own men??? This is just a good action movie
like Black Hawk Down, or Matt Damon's Green Zone.

******
2 March 2011
6
I wasn't too impressed with this film when I saw it more than a decade
ago. It's a very corny and sentimental retelling of the landing in
Normandy during World War II and subsequent battles in France. The film
starts and closes in a veterans cemetery during the present times (that
is, around the time it was filmed), and perhaps one of the reasons that
the filmmakers made it so sentimental is that around the time it was
released, and for obvious biological reasons, many WW2 veterans started
dying. I remember that another film dealing with World War II was
released at around the same time, Terrence Malick's The Thin Red Line,
which dealt with the war in the Pacific and it was far more gripping
and stronger and far less sentimental movie. Private Ryan opens with a
now famous scene of the landing in Normandy that is very well done, but
the film sort of goes downhill (though not catastrophically) from there
on. The character of the German prisoner, for instance, is very crudely
written and performed. I have to say, however, that one thing that
impressed me about the movie is that it shows American soldiers killing
German soldiers as they were surrendering. This undoubtedly happened
quite a lot in World War II (and in many wars, I suppose), yet few
films show such things. And Spielberg shows this matter of factly, he
doesn't give moral judgment on this. For this honesty, I praise the
movie. But on balance, I think this movie is only fair.

******
15 January 2011
3
Sorry, I couldn't get into this movie. Too unbelievable. First, three
brothers are killed within hours in 2 different fronts (one in Utah
beach, of all places!) And I guess they were all struck by the same
meteor. And then, didn't they have radios in that war? Why didn't they
just send a radio message to the 101 to locate Ryan and send him to the
rear? That would have been more logical than to send some grunts to
look for the proverbial needle in haystack. Anyway, this is the most
interesting Spielberg film I've seen, if only because it shows his
shortcomings as filmmaker. Let's be clear: there are really two movies
here, rather three, which show his inability to cope with 160 minutes
of good, consistent, cinema in just one swoop of a movie. The first
film is, of course, the reenactment on the Omaha landing, the best part
of the whole and the only one worth seeing. Excellent cinematography,
especially the hand--held--camera trick, which is mostly appropriate
here but which later became annoying as Spielberg seems to have fallen
in love with it, to the point of using it in even the most trivial
sequences. Anyway, good film overall (But what's the point, when I can
watch authentic footage from Iwo Jima, Tarawa and so on?) The second movie is interesting, because you can compare it to another
film with an almost identical plot: AN. In both we have a military team
who goes looking for a man in a war ravaged land, with Hanks playing
here the role Martin Sheen played there. And with the difference that
in this case they go to save Ryan while in AN they go to kill Kurtz.
Put both films together and you'll see why AN is a masterpiece while
SPR is just a wannabe. The first thing Coppola did when confronted to
his plot was to set a strong link between Willard & Kurtz. In AN,
Willard is regularly informed about Kurtz; Kurtz is ever present, he's
like a cloud hovering above the boat. In SPR instead Ryan is just an
abstraction, he's mostly irrelevant in the plot, he doesn't exist. That
is why this (second) film threatens to fall apart from the
beginning--as Spielberg failed in establishing such a link--and why he
had to recur to diverse, rather random, elements to keep the story
afloat. This explains the episodic nature the movie takes, with the
addition of elements disconnected from each other, which served no
useful role in the plot; for ex., that absurd tug of war around the
French girl. Or the foul up about the wrong Ryanwhich I'm told now
it's funny. The attack on the radar station is also gratuitous, as it
doesn't give us any additional info on the context. This brings me to
the subject of the context itself.I see that the most vocal critics of SPR here are the Brits, which feel
cheated of their role in that war. I would ask them: what war? I don't
see any war here, just a landing and then some random shooting. You
wouldn't even know there's a war going on, as NO context is given.
There you got another difference with AN. But Hanks and his men are no
much different than Willard and his crew in that boat, they constitute
a universe apart from the war, independent from it, but inserted in it
anyway. But there we see Coppola's genius too; he doesn't lose the
least occasion to keep tensions high in the group, by giving a sharp
edge to each member especially to Willard and making them constantly
collide. In SPR instead, added to the almost total absence of such
edges, Willard's equivalent is played by the last actor I would have
chosen for the part. Hanks can only play all around nice, honest guys.
He's so nice that, even when he caused the stupid death of one of his
subordinates, he didn't cause any turmoil in his platoon. So nice I
didn't even feel sad for his death, knowing he was going straight to
Heaven.If the second film is at best uneven, with strong sequences--Wade's
death--alternating with bad ones--tug of war for the girl--the third
film is a waste of time. That 45-minute battle served no purpose, as
nothing new is added to the mix. In most war movies men go into action
with still unsettled issues between them--as Mallory & Miller in
GON--or with themselves--the "coward" who has to prove himself for ex.,
but not here. We already know these guys are heroes, we have seen them
for the past 2 hours. We also know they are 100% loyal to their chief.
So what's the point in showing them for almost an entire hour still
doing the same...?BTW, the only reason why there were so many casualties in Omaha is that
the yanks refused to use specially designed British tanks-the Funnies--
that could have saved many lives.The waste of time, the cartoon Germans, the superfluous flag cost the
movie 3 pts. 3/10.

******
13 January 2010
10
I visited the forums, read reviews in IMDb, read reviews of critics,
talked to the people around me and as I see, people are not excited
about the movie like me, it means that they don't see the greatness of
the movie? or are there some other reasons? I want to give the example
of The Terminator 2. If you have seen the movie, you know that,
according to many people, it is the greatest action movie ever made. In
IMDb, you cannot see an user easily who gives a low rating or says that
it was not a very good movie. Firstly, I want to talk about that, why
Saving Private Ryan is not appreciated in its genre, war like The
Terminator 2? People are very cold towards this movie, as if it is just
an usual but good or pretty good movie. Or they say that Omaha Beach
sequence was cool (enough?) but the rest was bad. Now, at this point, I
want to say that now I am writing a review on the movie which to me,
one of the greatest movies of all time. This is pure cinema, maybe not
a work of art, but a truly cinematic experience. Direction, the
cinematography, editing, art direction, sound, sound editing and visual
effects (briefly mise-en-scene) are great, the shots are great. You
know, if a war movie includes action, people say that disliked it,
because it was not an anti war movie and also it shows war artistic,
but what if this is the style of the director? The Thin Red Line was
also very artistic, but is this really a flaw? Returning to the content
or the messages of the film, people say propaganda, militarist, one
sided etc. As a person who got sick of hearing historically inaccurate
or this movie is propaganda, I don't care about ideology while thinking
about this movie. As for one sided criticism, always the same, it shows
the enemy side as evil. Does somebody have to make two movies like
Clint Eastwood if he makes a war movie? Well, if you ask me, No. By the
way, the scene which the German soldier sings an American march is
criticized, so people say Spielberg humiliates Germans. If you want to
'read' it like that, do it, but to me it was an unforgettable and
tragicomic scene. The best (or the most horrible?) D-Day interpretation
is here. At this point, as said before, a lot of people think that just
Omaha Beach sequence was just cool. I think it is more than that. Also
the structure of the movie is very different than many mainstream
movies which is another success. Lastly, in the middle of the movie,
there is a sequence, it rains and later they find a little girl, that
sequence should be taught in cinema history lessons especially for the
people who are planning to be a director.

******
26 June 2009
10
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN Best of war movies, i had ever seen....Excellent
story line .... Excellent acting from Tom Hanks. He should have
received Oscar for the film... Vin diesel role is a not that much
highlight in the movie but he played his part nicely....Its the one of the greatest war movie ever made. This movie comes in
the line with Black hawk down , We were soldiers.... Another excellent
movie from one of the best director in the world (Stephen
Spielberg)with inclusion of some Sentiments with the war. The 1st 30mins in Omaha beach looks like Realistic war... So i
recommend every one to watch the movie for the people who are
interested in WAR MOVIESOver all 10/10 Must watch movie

******
27 May 2008
10
Steven Spielberg accomplished something here; something that may rival
Schindler's List as his masterpiece and the greatest work he ever did
in his extraordinary career. Here, with this film, he shows a side of
World War II we all have read about but never saw. While he couldn't
completely make it a reality, watching this movie is about as close as
any of us will get to experiencing such historical events like D-Day.
That being said, this is so much more than just a film that chronicles
the story of eight men sent to find one in the German-controlled areas
of France. Spielberg here paints a picture of the price and the
consequences of war and certainly doesn't glamorize anything. The first
half hour of the film is almost exclusively set right in the middle of
the action as US forces storm Omaha Beach and try to stay alive amidst
the torrential downpour of bullets and bombs. This scene alone earned
Spielberg the Best Director Oscar and makes this film one of the great
war films of all time. Still, he takes it to another level and gives us
characters that we can view as simple everyday men on a mission that
they don't believe in trying to find a man they know or care nothing
about. To be frank, this is more than a film. It is more than an
experience. It is a lesson on war and the complications it brings and
the sacrifice it requires. That is what makes this a classic and maybe
the best war film ever made. These men gave all they could and
something most of us will never have to worry about; they gave their
lives and in turn saved so many.

******
1 February 2008
9
Many of us can't truly say we know what World War II looked like, but I
would venture to say that Steven Spielberg gives us a pretty good idea
with "Saving Private Ryan." Spielberg, in his second attempt to capture
the WWII era on the big screen, has made a movie that plays out like
the telling of a war story and in the combat scenes latching back on to
a sense of harsh reality with violence and the death of many soldiers.Worthy of the most praise is the incredibly well-deserved second Oscar
win for the team of Spielberg and Janusz Kaminski. The two have done
everything together and this is certainly a high point of their
partnership. The cinematography really captures a war that is both dark
and in the case of D-Day, legendary. Rarely do most films capture a
spirit of war that is scary and also beautiful without glorifying the
war or its soldiers.Here is wear "Ryan" succeeds as a truly strong war film and probably
the best depiction of World War II battle in history. The characters
are strong and while they seem to be more like characters when they
don't fight, they react like people when they are forced to do their
jobs, not like super soldiers with the exception of Barry Pepper's
character, but that only makes the film better by rounding out the way
different soldiers viewed the war.The themes are incredibly strong thanks to this depiction of violence.
The universal idea of fighting for something or obeying orders when you
don't understand why is perfectly interpolated by the band of soldiers
sent to find Private Ryan and in that way it requires every viewer to
forcibly reconcile that which a soldier in any war must do. Those of us
who aren't veterans should consider ourselves fortunate to only have to
ponder it and not actually come to terms with it.

******
22 October 2007
10
Just leave it up to the genius of a master like Steven Spielberg to
depict WW II in all it's gruesomeness, chaos and inhumanity. This is
about the only war-movie that I have ever seen where you just simply
become stunned, overwhelmed and shocked by a pandemonium of apocalyptic
pictures, sounds and dialogs who ring nothing but true. This film
doesn't shy away from stating a simple message, the message that war
dehumanizes the human mind and bares open a bestiality that ponders on
the verge of uneducated seaweed in terms of emotions. I congratulate
you, Steven Spielberg, for being brave and courageous in your way of
showing us that war is hell, that it is tedious, brutal, sometimes even
boring but most important of all: definitely no laughing matter. This
honest and depressing examination of the human condition should
definitely have won the Best-Picture-Oscar in 1980. Oh wait, I just
realized that this isn't the comment-board for "1941"... sorry, my
mistake!

******
26 August 2007
10
great movie.. from a great director but what else is new? I really like
the movie and I will tell you why but let me first quote the even
greater Charles Bukowski: "You begin saving the world by saving one man
at a time; all else is grandiose romantism or politics." well lets
emphasis on the romantism because romantism is the genre of this movie.
why? What do the soldiers represent in the war - the simple man. The
simple man in extraordinary circumstances - romantism, a genre in
Literature. The war is the extraordinary circumstance and the "one man
at a time" is private Ryan. Now most of the negativism about the movie
comes from the grandiose story but Spielberg presents the story with
historical facts so the film doesn't feel too distant or too Hollywood.
The Camera follows the actors in the sand and the piles of dead bodies.
We see guts, blood, limbs. We see from their point of view while the
battle unfolds. Spielberg has always had "an eye" for the photography
but here he puts it to the limit. His vision is undeniable because its
personal and because its a movie, it brings out a world before the
viewers eyes and they cant judge the characters who by the way are
perfectly created by the actors, Tom Hanks in a
blowing-our-minds-of-performance, because its an extraordinary
circumstance in which the simple man tries to figure out a way to
survive or to do the right thing.In the end the old Ryan ask if he has lived a good life, if he is a
good person, if he has earned it as Capt. Miller aka Tom Hanks told him
before he died. In a way the movie is philosophical but I think that it
is more like a book, you read it and think about it - what it means and
what it is about, in contexts means, because its a great movie, it does
what a great movie does - says what it suppose to say.

******
17 August 2007
10
In my opinion saving private Ryan is the most entertaining and
realistic war movie you can find to have been released. It takes place
during ww2 and starts out with the invasion of Normandy known as d-day
shown as excruciatingly violent. Right after this 8 men receive a
mission to find a private Ryan because his other three brothers have
already died in the war. The men begin to wonder why the 8 of them are
risking their lives to save just another soldier. Tom Hank gives a very
good performance as the leader of the team who keeps the group together
when things start to go wrong. Tom Sizemore is the second man in
command, Ed Burns is the soldier who doesn't like the mission more than
anyone of them, Adam Goldberg, Barry Pepper and Jeremy Davies are three
other soldiers in the group. Vin Diesel and Giovonni Ribisi are the two
men who die before they find Private Ryan played by Matt Damon. The
movie is 2 and 3/4 hours long but move along fast and ends before you
know it. If you have not seen this movie then you are missing out on
something special.

******
12 June 2007
10
Saving Private Ryan is such a powerful and necessary film and one
everyone should watch at one point in their life.It's a simple story; a small group of soldiers are given a mission to
retrieve the last surviving of four brothers from behind enemy lines in
France. The symbolism of this story and of Ryan himself are profound
and personal for all of us today who are partakers of the rights and
freedoms given to those liberated by the allied invasion of Europe. The
graphic depiction of what these men went through to establish that
freedom gives us a difficult reminder of how much we each as
individuals owe these men  veterans that are still with us actually
went through this! I remember feeling so grateful for their sacrifice,
and I left the cinema not so much entertained but shaken. The depth and
accuracy of this film remains a testament and a tribute to those brave
people, and not the filmmakers themselves. The acting is honest and
superb, and the characters are as rich and interesting and ordinary as
the real soldiers they could represent. The first time I watched this
it was difficult to watch and there were several times when I had to
just look away. A technical marvel, an incredible achievement for
Steven Spielberg, who remains for me the greatest filmmaker ever.

******
15 May 2007
10
After directing such films as Jaws, E.T., and Schindler's List, I don't
think that anybody thought that Steven Spielberg could do anything
better.Well, he did.Saving Private Ryan, the greatest war film ever made, is undoubtedly
Spielberg's masterpiece. Forget that it lost the Best Picture Academy
Award to the utterly forgettable Shakespeare in Love; This film
transcends all other war films before it, and will continue to be the
standard for all war films after it.From the very first gunshot on the beaches of Normandy (which is still
the most shockingly brilliant scene in any movie in history) until the
final shot is fired in the small French town at the end of the movie
(quite possibly the 2nd most shockingly brilliant scene in history),
the movie grabs your attention and refuses to let go. You squirm as the
camera follows brave soldiers into the heat of battle out of fear of
being shot yourself, and you feel each soldier's pain when one of their
own falls in combat. After Private Ryan's thank you to Captain Miller
at the end of the movie, we can't help but thank Captain Miller along
with him. And we thank Spielberg, too, for creating one of the best
films of all time for us to enjoy.

******
7 May 2007
7
This is a film nobody will forget, if your not a war film fan like me,
you will still love this amazing 5 time Oscar winner master piece by
Steven Spielberg. All of Steven Spielberg's film i basically loved, and
that is why i saw this film because Steven is a god in film-making. He
is coming out with another film this year, TRANSFORMERS and i can't
wait to see it, because i know it will be spectacular! When this film
came out on DVD i immediately went to buy it. This is probably my
brothers favorite film ever made, but i still have to wait and see what
i see to make my final decision. this film is so realistic about the
war that when i first saw it, it made me cry in some parts.

******
5 March 2007
10
I have read several critiques of this movie claiming that the opening
sequence and continuing doctrine are "unrealistic". These "Experts"
claim that the opening scene is far too bloody and doesn't accurately
describe what the fighting would have been like, and that the standard
operating procedures of the squad are "Hollywood".I challenge these "experts" to put aside their ideology and bias and
look at how a military operation actually works and what is involved.The Normandy invasion was the largest movement of troops and personal
in the history of the world, and that mere accomplishment stands with
the building of the Pyramids or the Hanging Gardens. It was a classic
case of "being willing to pay the butcher's bill" for a victory. Saying
that there were only 10% casualties is accurate, but it is an insult to
the bravery of the 34,250 men that landed on the most heavily fortified
real estate in the world. And especially to those going in the first
wave, where casualties were known to be the highest (in some cases over
80%). 34,250 men don't all step off onto the beach at the same time."Saving Private Ryan" opens with the first wave of troop carriers going
on to Omaha Beach. The defenders are there waiting for them, and
therefore the casualty rates among these units will be high. The
opening scene accurately describes this. My grandfather was part of the
second wave onto Omaha and his eyewitness testimony confirms this.The breakdown of US casualties was 1465 dead, 3184 wounded, 1928
missing (presumed dead) and 26 captured. In the Annals of American
History, only Antietam ranks higher in American casualties suffered in
a single day.Several Airborne Rangers I've interviewed (including my father &
grandfather) remark on the realism of the squad's interaction. These
were not people sneaking through a jungle afraid of being ambushed,
these were men that knew that surrounding territory was largely
abandoned or populated by French that are hoping to be liberated.
Virtually any patrol they encounter would be mechanized and be audible
miles away.As for being able to "pick up a radio and contact Ryan's unit to get
him out", units in World War II were often out of radio contact for
days, occasionally weeks, at a time and had to operate autonomously.
There were no GPS satellites and no cell phones. Many soldiers didn't
understand French or German. Getting lost was common and a wrong turn
would mean hours of delay and confusion. While I can't say the mission
made a lot of sense to me from a military point of view, once the
mission was ordered this was about the only way it could have been
carried out.And yes, rank insignia was displayed (in muted color) on helmets of
officers, just as it is today.

******
17 January 2007
10
This is my favourite film of all time by a long shot, Steven Spielberg
got this movie spot on. It is the most "real" seeming war film I think
there is to date, with the horrific D-Day opening scene blowing me
away. I really do feel for the American and other allies that fought in
WWII, I pay great respect for fighting for our freedom.Other note is the soundtrack, again John Williams has done this spot
on, in fact the soundtrack to this film was the first movie soundtrack
I brought. It is a very emotional soundtrack which I have listened to
many times. All ten tracks are amazing and it's very hard to pick a
favourite from them, although: 1. Hymn to the Fallen 2. Revisiting
Normandy 3. Omaha Beach 4.Wade's Death Are most probably my favourites.
This is a must see and must own film. I rarely rate films 10/10 but this sure means that score. 10/10.

******
9 January 2007
10
Well...as a girl i thought that as a war movie i would HATE Saving
Private Ryan, however, it ended up being a very gripping and powerful
movie. The cast, the directing, and everything is just amazing and o my
gosh i love all the actors in it. Edward Burns and Tom Sizemore are my
favorites personally bet the entire cast really went well together. It
was jipped when it didn't win the best picture Oscar for 1998. I mean
Shakespeare in Love is a great movie, but I think that the patriotism
exemplified in Saving Private Ryan is far more worthy of an Oscar than
a romance film. This is a great movie and I highly recommend it to
anyone who can handle violence and would like to see war portrayed in
its most realistic form.

******
2 October 2006
9
'Saving Private Ryan' is not meant to glorify war, rather, it tries to
show the audience the pain and suffering of not soldiers, but people.Beginning with the fateful D-Day which has influenced popular video
games and other war movies, a company of soldiers is given the mission
of pulling a private out from the war front. Confused and annoyed at
this objective, the soldiers travel across Normandy in search of
someone they never knew, let alone cared about.The band of soldiers have a hard time coming to terms with such an
obscure mission. However, they cannot bail out of the objective. After
all, they are in the army. Obeying orders can be the difference between
winning or losing.Steven Spielberg masterfully creates a duality in the characters: at
once they are soldiers, yet at heart they are only civilians. The cast
of characters are exceptional: Captain Miller (played by Tom Hanks),
keeps the group together and just wants to get the objective over and
done with. Pvt. Daniel Jackson (Barry Pepper) is the Godfearing soldier
who believes his Lord has given him such talent with the sniper rifle.
Pvt. Richard Reibens (Edward Burns) is the one who questions the
authority, and feels the mission is unnecessary, and the rest round up
the company beautifully. These men are not cookie cutter soldiers: They
talk with each other, have feelings, reflect upon their actions;
Spielberg brings out the 'other' side of the men at war, and this is
what the audience (especially war veterans) can relate to.The direction is great. Spielberg's shots are moving: War is dirty and
horrifying, and the bonding between the soldiers are sensitive scenes.
The cinematography is excellent, some of the best I have seen from any
movie. The sound aspects are just as good, if not better, in depicting
the harshness of war.'Saving Private Ryan' is a movie not to be missed, partly because it is
arguably the greatest war movie ever made, and partly because it will
deter those from the idea of another great war.

******
29 May 2006
10
I'm a high school student, and recently, before a trip to visit the
D-Day beaches in Normandy, we had a vet who was a medic on D-Day come
in and talk to our class. We asked him about his experiences AT D-Day,
and he was disinclined to talk too much about it, but said that the
first 20 minutes of "Saving Private Ryan" were like a newsreel. He even
told a story briefly about trying to save a man, dragging the man
behind him, only to discover after a little ways that he only had the
top half of the man, and that the rest had been blown off, which was
actually depicted in the movie. I really appreciated the artistic
qualities of the movie as well. The muted color added a somber
atmosphere to the movie, and the way Spielberg used realistic equipment
and sound effects really impressed me. His set for the invasion was
incredibly accurate- when I first viewed the movie, I thought it had
been filmed on location. Thumbs up, Steve!

******
27 May 2006
9
...to see both the horrors of war and the evolution of warfare.But more affecting is the individual and group interactions of the
ensemble in SPR - spoken and unspoken - and Spielberg's direction,
which made war real, in its terror, ambiguousness, and heroism.Tom Hanks as Cap. Miller is the commanding officer you dream of, warts
and all, and his command comes together around him loyally, even in
FUBAR situations, in a group of outstanding and heartbreaking
performances.The final scenes are among the most suspenseful in war film-making. I
still get chills, and feel fear as if I was on the front lines myself.If you're a vet, watch with caution, there are triggers. If you are not
a vet, then make a point to watch these two movies so you can know what
our vets and soldiers endure in war.

******
24 May 2006
7
I'm usually a big fan of Spielberg,but in this film he comes across as
a bit to anti-German,he may have his reasons and i think he has made
them clear in Schindlers List,and i understand his feelings.But i think
for a big epic like this it would have been better to have an unbiased
portrayal of Germans so the film would have been universally
admired,instead its coming across as anti-German propaganda especially
when there is so much American flag-waving.Being English i have the
same problem with Braveheart,Scots=good English=bad,this is really one
dimensional character study,which just teaches people to live in
ignorance,we all need to learn to move on.Surely its better to make
films every culture is going to relate to,flag waving just promotes
arrogance which leads to looking down on others.The other big problem i
have with this film is that the Brits are not mentioned,or if we are i
must have missed it,i must have blinked.This was a decisive battle and
i know like thousands of other Brits we were involved,so whats the big
idea?It would be like us making a film about the Somme or Ypes and not
bothering to mention the Canadian and Australian involvement,that would
be unforgivable.

******
30 April 2006
10
I got this film on DVD for my birthday and I couldn't wait to watch it
because I had heard some stuff about the movie being very good. After I
saw it I had a much better understanding of how bad war really is. I
mean you show a seen at Omaha beach on Jun 6,1944 and the moment the
ramps go down already the first three or four rows of solider literally
get blown to bits. After that you see more solider get shot, killed,
and wounded until some solider finally get up to the bunkers and take
out the Nazis's, and to top all that off you see the beach after it
covered with dead bodies and big puddles of blood. then you hear that 8
men have to save 1 man who lost all three of his brothers and after
more violence you see that of the 8 men sent out only 2 are still
alive. I can't think of any reason why you couldn't be moved by this
film. This is a must see film for anyone interested in war films.

******
17 January 2006
8
Where to begin? I have to say that 'Saving Private Ryan' is a modern
masterpiece, and that negative criticism is basically aimed at
opportunities which failed to make this the greatest movie ever made.The plot is simple - Captian Miller, played by Tom Hanks, and his squad
of soldiers are given a new assignment following the Normandy Invasion:
to find Private James Ryan, played by Matt Damon, who happened to be a
paratrooper of the 101st Airborne.The War scenes, despite being truly upsetting and gruesomely realistic,
are visually fantastic. The attention to detail by Spielberg is
fantastic. The full frame is filled with explosions and whizzing
bullets, not to mention with the main subject. However, there is not
ONE British soldier in France. Not a single soldier. This definitely
doesn't overshadow what I personally think is one of the best movies
ever made.The movie has no message. The movie is more sentimental, acknowledging
the past, and what our older generation went through in order to keep
our country safe, as well as to protect our current, or their future
generation. We all know we owe it all to those soldiers. All we can do
is mourn our losses, and appreciate, with all of our hearts, the
soldiers that made it back home. And, in a way, this film brings people
together. Don't watch this with elderly family members otherwise you'll
embrace a several sad, and soppy moments.The acting is brilliant. Watching soldiers cry is extremely disturbing
in my opinion. They fight against their will to survive in order to
complete their mission and fulfil a strategy. And when you are told to
duck, you DO duck! Fantastic movie. If you liked Band Of Brothers and
felt Thin Red Line could of been better, you'll faint by the effort
poured into this excellent film.Pocket yourself with cash and Rent it now.

******
12 November 2005
10
Giovanni's acting was wonderful in this movie.The best I've seen. When
he died, he made it so real. I cried for 15 minutes. And, I'm not
exaggerating at all. Besides, he's hot. Who likes it when the hot guy
dies? I know I don't. He's very talented. He was very good throughout
the whole movie, really. The only reason I started this account was to
comment on him. Sorry, I keep babbling. This has to be 10 lines long.
Have you seen Gone in 60 Seconds. That movie is awesome. And have you
seen him on Friends as Frank Jr. He's really air-headed, but so
adorable. But this is definitely the hottest I've seen him. So, bottom
line is, he's really hot. Especially in Saving Private Ryan.

******
30 October 2005
10
It was a great movie.Unbelievable,epic masterpiece by Speilburg.Great
story,great production what else is there to say?One of the greatest
movies made.Very factual.The information was true and specifically
accurate.A sure 10 rated movie.Even a person who is not a war movie fan
would love it. A should see movie.I definitely recommend this movie.it
is great. great great great.I recommend it. go see it .it is good .matt
Damon is in it.so are other good actors.go see it.Steven
Speilburgdirected it so go see it.it is worth it.i recommend it.perfect
movie.it should be seen. you will enjoy it.anybody would i think it is
worth seeing even though it is violent.

******
5 September 2005
10
I don't care what anyone says about classic movies, and I'm all for the
classics, but this movie is definitely in the top 10 of all time.
Seeing this movie in the theater was absolutely hypnotic. I felt as
though I was going through everything the characters in the movie went
through, and when I was walking home, I distinctly remember feeling a
sense of what is probably "Shell Shock." I remember thinking, "What's
the point to everything?" which is something people often struggle
through after going to war. This work is more than a movie, its an
experience. Sadly its not possible to get quite such an intense feeling
when watching it at home unless you have a terrific home theater. The
giant screen I saw this movie on added to the incredible effect of the
movie which fully enveloped me in the world of the story.The opening scene is one of the best scenes ever put to film. If you
don't already know what the scene is about, or even if you do, and you
have not seen this movie, go out and rent it right now. Turn out all
the lights and make sure you are absolutely comfortable and ready to
give the movie your full attention. The opening scene is one you will
never forget. It felt like I was right there next to 'em.

******
18 August 2005
10
I commented on this in a different thread, but I thought that it
deserved mentioning again. How can any of you think that the German
soldier Upham shoots at the end of the movie isn't the same one he
convinced Cpt. Miller to let go earlier? Aside from looking EXACTLY
like him (and don't reply some crap about that being just a coincidence
and that's what all Germans look like) he says Upham's name when he is
pleading for his life. How would the soldier know Upham's name (and
don't reply "he read it on his uniform" just to try to make a point
just because a smart ass idea popped into your head and you are more
than willing to start a fight over the internet. You fat attention
seeking nerd) * The German obviously said Upham's name in a desperate
attempt to get Upham to let him go again. Aside from that, all of a
sudden for no reason Upham grows balls and decides to kill this one
German and let all the rest go? He shot him because he recognized him
as the same German from earlier, and that's what allowed Upham the nads
to finally shoot someone.* Yes I know that I'm being redundant by calling those who seek to pick
fights over the internet fat nerds, please no replies telling me this.

******
3 May 2005
9
As i started watching this movie i was grabbed by the battle on Omaha
beach because of Speilbergs vision of the scenario. As always Spielberg
will get you excited with his movie and not let go, he will add in
wonderful visuals and just simply amaze you with his realistic
perspective.Within the first scene i thought i wouldn't see another gun battle that
great in my whole life, but likely enough there was an even better one
at the end of the movie when they find Privat Ryan(Damon) and he says
he wont leave his men behind. After Ryan tells them he is not going
Hanks has to prepare for another battle, probably the most exciting and
intense one ever.One thing you have to take into perspective is that John
Williams(composer of film) was one of the people who made this movie
intense with his wonderful score to keep you intrigued throughout. I
was happy for Spielberg when he one Best Director for the second
time(previous for Schindlers List) but i thought this should have won
Best Picture and Best Actor for Hanks. If you have not already seen
this movie i suggest you see it asap because it is absolutely amazing.
10 out of 10

******
25 October 2004
6
Apart from the first part, I was very disappointed by the rest. The
morale: don't let an enemy go, because he will return and kill you.
Strange hair-cut SS soldiers (more resembling US marines than German
Waffen SS soldiers) even speaking English !!! Germans storming a town
running around to be shot ! It just irritates me. All was more decently
done in "Band of Brothers". Only the action of the German flak-crew and
SP-gun was done well. Keep in mind that in reality the Waffen SS was a
frightening fighting force with unparalleled commanders but didn't
enter the battle in Cotentin so soon. Rob Veenenberg

******
17 January 2004
4

The reconstruction is excellent. The visual effects create very accurate
images. But it's like "Titanic" in WWII. A lot of movies has been made on
that subject and there are lots of true stories that deserve to be told
without such sugarcoated style. Maybe if Spielberg had made a remake of
"The
longest day" with the production used for this movie, he would have made a
great movie. He wouldn't have to resort to [SPOILER] the predictable last
scene when Pvt Ryan salutes John Miller's grave.

******
17 October 2003
3

the 3 points i gave this movie are all for the landing at the
beach.
the movie itself was just the usual Hollywood nonsense that thanks to big
names (like Spielberg, Hanks and Damon) and big advertisement was
successful. i admit the acting was good, but it still doesn't give this
movie any importance.

******
18 July 2003
5

While the first twenty minutes (or, for you pedantic moviegoers out there
who are going to jump on me for being six minutes off in my assessment,
the
length of the first scene) of this movie is a brilliant "chaotic and
harrowing battle scene", there is nothing else in the movie that even
comes
close its poignance. The rest of the movie follows in the footsteps of
every
other trite Spielberg drama. I think that people are too afraid of
besmirching the face of any movie that deals with WWII to be honest about
films such as this. The subject matter does not make the art. It American
audiences are unable to make such a distinction.

******
10 July 2003
5

Dwelling on the past and its horrors won't make the horrors of today go
away.
Why is it that if movies like this really show that war is horror, people
still go to war?
This movie still promotes shallow minded heroism, taunting the shallow
minded to make a hero of themselves.But, now I gives "Saving Private Ryan" too much credit.Them portrayal of the characters doesn't help you "connect" with them or
their situation.
All the macho bulls**t that we've seen i hundreds of war movies is so
tiring.
The character are shallow, as are the points made by the movie (if
any).

******
24 May 2003
5

This movie begins and ends in a very lame fashion. Old people, American
flags and shonky acting features heavily. Gratuitous.The subsequent half an hour (the landing scene) by itself would have made
a
better movie. What is the message this movie is trying to convey? That
war
is Hell? If so, then extend the landing scene to an hour, finish the
movie
there and preven the Hellish aspect spilling over into cinematic
experience.The rest is just boring attempts at moralising, cliched moments and other
embarrassing moments that just diminish the impact of the opening battle
scene until it becomes a distant memory and you find yourself watching
yet
another formulaic war movie.

******
6 February 2003
6

This is another movie in the long list of overrated movies here in IMDB.
You
know, war has always been a favorite subject for movies, because it
generates intense emotions. These emotions are there de facto: Just
imagine
a seriously wounded soldier, screaming, covered in blood, surrounded by
fellow soldiers with pain on their faces. You see, it can't be too
difficult
to generate emotions when the subject is war. And so does this movie, but
not in any particularly original way.
The most serious problem of this movie is its storyline, which you know
from
start to end if you read the following sentence: "A soldier has lost his
3
brothers in the war, and so we must find him and save him to soothe his
poor
mother". That's all folks. The rest is the typical adventures you would
expect from a war movie. The same predictable results, the occasional
conflict between members of the rescue team, and so on. We have seen all
of
this, and much better.
The only reason this movie will get a 6 out of 10, is the very good (as
usual) Tom Hanks. All in all, a great movie to see if you want to forget
it
in the next 10 minutes after "The End".

******
7 January 2003
6

Poor old mister Speilberg. He was so upset when he did not win the Oscar
for
this movie. Well if he stop shoving the American way down everybodys neck
then maybe he would have done better. Those flag waving scenes at the
start
and end were some of the worst bits of judgment when it came to directing
that I have seen for many years. Next time he should watch "The Thin Red
Line" to see how not to be all happy about the cruelty of war. He seems
to
think that just he stuck a graffic scene in near the start then it was a
true and honest account of war. Get real . If he had just let go of the
emotional cord it could have been so good. 

******
8 July 2002
10

I don't think i want to ever watch this "movie" again. I wept and wept and
wept when i saw it in theatre. I don't think i can take it all in again. Too
emotional. Too real. Giovanni Ribisi and Barry Pepper are the best
little-known actors around because i really thought they were their
characters as i watched them on screen. Mr. Spielberg is a master of his
domain (pardon the cheese). And Tom is simply amazing. I know it's very
manipulative, but i didn't mind. It touched me in ways that very few other
films did (Schindler's list was another). It's quite difficult to rate this
film simply because it was as much a documentary as it was a film. Excellent
work, regardless.

******
29 January 2002
9
One of the best war films ever made, Saving Private Ryan is raw and
shocking. Not only because of the gore scenes, but also because of the
camera-work. Using a steadycam, combined with the absence of music
soundtrack during the breathtaking battle scenes, gives a realistic and
natural feel to the film. War films are hardly an opportunity for
actors to showcase their talent, as more focus is set on the viewer's
visual pleasure, but in this film time is taken to describe many of the
characters.Generally Saving Private Ryan is almost excellent and highly
recommended.My only objections are as regards the choice of Hanks for the main role
(a role more suitable to Clooney or Crowe, if you ask me), and Damon's
teeth; it's remarkable that a soldier that's been through hell for a
long period of time could easily be the protagonist in a toothpaste ad.
:o)9

******
11 January 2002
9

Very much so does this movie have high expectations.  yes it was expected
to
be decent.  At first I couldn't figure what was so important about saving
private ryan.  I guess there was a purpose.  The narraration always stuck
to
the movie.  And the plot was right on target.  I thought the best part was
the beginning when the men struggled to get on the shore.  You know my dad
was in a war and he went through harsh times but I'm sure it was never
that
risky.  One thing I know this is a must see.

******
30 December 2001
10

This is truly Spielberg's greatest film, combining action with the
gruesome
terror f the second world war. The superb realism makes it feel as if you
were actually there when the allies stormed the beaches of Normandy, a bit
too much so. I don't think anyone will argue this is a true masterpiece,
and
while enjoying the film you might actually be learning
something.

******
22 December 2001
2

This movie starts and ends with shots of the American flag which points to
one of its biggest problems. It purports to be an anti war film but this
rubbish. While it may show the horrors of war in graphic detail, it
ultimately is a celebration of militarism and heroism. Sure, heroism doesn't
mean it's a pro-war movie but this movie goes beyond that. It's little
surprise that the military are among the biggest fans of this movie. It may
not celebrate war as a something good, but then, I can't think of any film
that does outside of propaganda movies. If you want an anti war movie that
shows heroism and mateship without celebrating the military, watch "All
Quiet on the Western Front".It does follow the standard American war movie characterisation rather
faithfully. The Germans are universally evil, other nations are either
non-existent, villains or locals who get saved by the Americans. Well in
this case it is not that far from the truth, without the Americans the war
would have gone on much longer than it did and the Germans were villains.
But all these facts are distorted and stereotyped in a bad way here. For
example, the only German with a sizeable speaking role turns out to be a
total coward and backstabber who repays the Americans who saved his life by
shooting them. There are a couple of good points to the movie though. It does deviate
somewhat from the standard US heroic movies in that it shows that Americans
committed war crimes too, like shooting soldiers who had already
surrendered. There are also some quite powerful scenes that are as good as
any Spielberg has done. Best among them is the scene where a father in a
French village tries to pass his daughter to one of the soldiers to save
her. This single scene can probably verify this movie's claim to show the
horrors of war somewhat. The landing in the Normandy is good, although
somewhat overrated. I wasn't there so I can't comment on the realism but it
felt like this was close to what it was really like. Many people were upset that the movie only shows Americans fighting the
Germans, but for once, this is not really a valid argument since the various
armies fought in different areas and would have had very little contact
amongst each other. The movie really goes downhill towards the end though when the troop
actually find Ryan. Instead of being glad to be out of this hell, he wants
to stay there to help out his comrades. Very anti war indeed. This is where
the movie turns totally Hollywood and looses all claim it may have had to a
somewhat realistic portrayal. A number of people had died already in trying
to find Ryan and his decision to stay there costs another couple of people
their lifes yet the movie makes him a total hero for it. Steven Spielberg is
capable of making great movies, this isn't one of them.The acting is not particularly good and leaves out no cliches. Tom Hanks was
actually nominated for an Academy Award for a role that Pee Wee Herman could
have played better.Finally, the salutation scene in the end is totally stomach
churning.

******
19 December 2001
10

At Basic Combat Training, my company had to watch this movie as part of
our
class on the seven Army Values: Loyalty, Duty, Respect, Selfless service,
Honor, Integrity, and Personal Courage. (No, it isn't an accident that
they
form the acronym LDRSHIP.) Whether it was intended to be so or not, Matt
Damon, in his role of Private Ryan, clearly exhibited each one of the Army
Values. It stirred our emotions, and made us focus on the task at hand.
We
were proud to be training as American soldiers.

******
4 December 2001
10

**Not known to many viewers: this is based on events that occured during
WWII.  Try to find "Into the Breach" for more info.**To say that "Saving Private Ryan" is one of the best war films ever made is
an understatement.  It might possibly be THE best war film ever made; right
up there with other films like "Apocalypse Now," "Platoon," "The Deer
Hunter," and "Full Metal Jacket."  (Yes, I noticed that I used only Nam
films, but hey, they're some of the best around!)  And for today's Top 250
poll, it's at #27.  Even that is an understatement.  I believe that SPR
should be in the Top 10, maybe even Top 5 best movies of all time.  That's
all my opinion.  But here's a plot summary for this masterpiece.James Ryan (Matt Damon) has lost his brothers in combat.  All three of
them.
So, the government sends Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) with a team of
an additional seven to find him and "get him the hell outta there."  These
people are as diversified as the New Yorker Private Richard Reiben (Edward
Burns) to the Southern sniper Private Daniel Jackson (Barry Pepper;) the
timid translator, Corporal Timothy Upham (Jeremy Davies) to the hardened
veteran Sargent Mike Horvath (Tom Sizemore.)  Along the way they encounter
various goose chases and German troops, and suffer losses that affect
thoughts of how important one Private is.Every actor in this film is up to his element.  I say "his" because, well,
to be honest, there are no women in this film, except for random typists
and
Mrs. Ryan, who don't have speaking parts.  Also starring Adam Goldberg, Vin
Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, and Ted Danson.You have not truly lived until you have seen Saving Private
Ryan.

******
3 October 2001
3

Special effects aside, this movie is too full of heroic and unrealistic
portrayal of soldiers. War is not supposed to make sense and Spielberg's
attempt to make it look gritty and touching fails terribly. This is pure
Hollywood. Nothing artistic or Schindleristic about it. What a
dissapointment.Only the opening sequence makes good. As for the rest of the plot about
"saving private ryan"", it's just stale and too formulaic. I'm sickened
and
disgusted by this movie.Go watch Grave Of The Fireflies. Now that'll tear your heart in
two.

******
28 December 2000
6

I know, I know: RYAN is supposed to be Spielberg's second SCHINDLER. But
seriously: If you think about it, it's obviously not!
Alright: The Omaha Beach scenes are really some of the most astonishing
action sequences ever staged. However, the following story unfolds as a
cliché-ed plot like any war story. It reminded me even of the pilot to TOUR
OF DUTY. Tom Hanks leads a small platoon through enemy lines to save the
last of four brothers, three were already killed in action. On this mission,
some of the G.I.s get killed. The rest start pondering if this trip - if the
war - is worthwhile. So far so good. To show that this movie is a deep one,
Spielberg pulls the joker of showing the enemy in a humane way: "Steamboat
Willy", a German officer doomed to get shot, who turns out to be just
another nice guy, but from the wrong side. They let him get away. But when
they encounter him the second time, the G.I. translator - who never before
has killed anybody - has of course to shoot him, just to show that all
Germans were demons after all. Hypocrisy! And all the discussions whether
the effort was worth it are silenced, when Ryan turns out to be the bestest
American boy ever! It could've been a far better film if Ryan was a) dead
already, b) a cowardish and unlikable character, c) black, or d) just not to
be found. THEN all the thoughts about the reason of war would have led
somewhere. Now they are just a fig leaf to cover up a standard B-wartime
flick.

******
28 May 2000
2

The movie starts off in blazing hell, 15 minutes of stahlgewitter, men
screaming, scattered and dying in a visual assault of maimed bodies and
detached limbs. Without a doubt one of the most shocking and memorable
depictions of war ever shot. Unfortunately the movie takes a big dip from
that point on.
Instead of showing us the absurdities of war, something the plot could
well
have brought across, Spielberg laborously evolves the movie around trusted
values like male comradeship, loyalty and heroic patriotism, blasting the
genre of the american war movie 30 years into the past. Combined with the
effort of Hollywood's most pretentious actor, Tom Hanks, and a criminally
tacky score makes this one of the most pathetic war movies ever
made.Terrence Malik's "Thin Red Line", which it incidently sunk at the box
offices, shows what this movie could - should have been.


******
4 March 2000
10

From the outset it is without doubt the most realistic war film ever made.
The stomach churning beach battle at the beginning may well have put many
off, but those that stopped with it were rewarded by superb acting, and
more
especially Steven Spielberg's staggering direction. A must see film, if
ever
there was one.

******
3 February 2000
10

I love this film to bits. Spielberg, Williams and Kaminski strike again with
this great WWII front line drama. All actors were excellent in their roles,
and I think Hanks was stiffed at the Oscars. I especially liked the
beginning of the D-Day landing scene, with Hanks and co. in the transporter.
At that point you can really feel the tension building up, mainly because of
the shots of the soldiers faces as they waited to hit the beach. The
suspense of the situation really built up when you could hear the bullets
clanging against the ramp on the front of the transporter, and it was just
sheer terror when the ramp fell and the guys at the front were riddled with
bullets. The point is, Spielberg makes the audience feel like they're one of
the soldiers on the transporter, and I was no exception. I got the real
feeling of not wanting to be one of the soldiers there. The length of the
landing scene was quite long, getting you into the feel of the time scale.
The blood and gore was necessary to depict how horrible this scene was. The
thing is, that's what it was really like.Granted, it does get a bit slow when they start looking for Ryan, but not to
the point where you're bored enough to want out of the cinema. The bonding
between the soldiers in the squad is also highlighted in the film, Corporal
Upham for example, being excluded by the others at the start, and by the end
is joining in with the lingo (i.e., 'foobar'). The ending tugged on the
heart strings plenty, and it shows that Hanks' character was no hero, but a
normal human being, hesitating to put his life on the line for another (cf.
'earn this'). The overall effect of this film is pure anti-war.John Williams' score was excellent as usual, and the fact that there was no
music in the battle scenes was a good move, so that the audience can
concentrate on the action. Kaminski's shots were just genius, his freehand
style instantly recognisable, giving a real feeling of terrifying action and
movement at the start and end of the film. This film was stiffed at the
Oscars. Mark my words.

******
8 January 2000
10

This is the greatest film about war I ever seen. Of course, I didn't see
the
real war, but I'm living in the city (former Stalingrad), that was almost
swept from the face of the Earth by the German LuftWaffe. For russians
WWII
is a special subject, and from my childhood I watched a lot of films (not
only russian) about it. But no one impressed me like the Spielberg's one.
Unfortunately haven't see it in wide screen, but in home theater with
Dolby
it was great! Thank you Steven! Now I can forgive you Jurassic II (and
III,
and IV, and V, and ...)

******
7 January 2000
10
The first time I saw this movie was at the cinema. The opening scene
simply took my breath away. You could really feel the soldiers horror
and I as almost crouched down in my seat seeking for cover. I had just
eaten before the movie so I ended up feeling really sick when the
soldiers where slaughtered on the beach. It is clearly the most
realistic war scene ever.The film is brilliant. The actors are great. The story is thrilling. It
is one of the best movies about war ever. I think the main purpose of
the film is to honor those who fought and died in the struggle against
the Nazis in WW2. We owe them a lot.

******
26 November 1999
2

I gave it a vote as high as 3 merely because I believe that
on
technical merits alone, it was quite good.  However, as far
as
its entertainment value, it had none whatsoever for me.  I
found
that I could not see past the violence and gore...  It
therefore,
as far as I was concerned, had no plot, no character development,
no nothing.  Many will disagree with those statements, but
note
that it's not that the script was without those things, or
even
that the actors necessarily did a bad job, but simply that
the
violence was just too strongly present.I remember hearing that the director wanted this to be a
movie
that would "show how war really was".  Well, I've never been
in
a war, nor do I have any desire to fight.  If this movie
gave
me the feeling of being in a war, than if I am ever in one,
I
will become a mindless drone.  I will be almost completely
without emotion, my biggest feeling will be one of disgust.
I do not feel, though, that this movie has made me feel
any
differently about war...  I still think it's a horrible
thing.
The movies that have made me feel more strongly in that
direction
are those that have drawn me in to the characters lives, and
then
ripped those lives apart.  Just a few such examples are
Platoon
and Schindler's List on the serious side, and just as potently
Good Morning Vietnam and Life is Beautiful on the comedy
side.

******
18 September 1999
4

Oh, Hollywood!  Wherefore art thy head, Hollywood?  Could it be up thy
ass?The American public are suckers for movies with cool special effects and
bitchin surround sound.  We love Saving Private Ryan for the same reason we
love the Fourth of July.  When I first saw the movie, however, it was
blasting from my larger than life 19 inch Sanyo Television set.  It was less
than spectacular.I have to admit the first few minutes were disturbingly real-looking and the
buzz is that they are as close a depiction of the events of D-Day as we may
ever realize on film.  For that, I give the film the weight of my praise. 
Without it, I would have voted 2 instead of a 4.  However, once the
nightmarish slaughter was over and the film attempted to transform itself
from megabudgeted explosion rally into something resembling a watchable war
epic it flounders and flails, pathetically begging to be
recognized."Look, we've got Tom Hanks and Matt Damon!" it pouts. As if we didn't already know this, the film tries to tell us war is
terrible.  As the story progresses, it seems to whine about
it.[Editors note: possible spoilers ahead]Saving Private Ryan attempts at points to explore the eccentricities of war.
Some examples: The guy at the beginning of the movie who is nailed in the
head and saved by his helmet takes off the helmet in wonderment and is
immediately killed by another shot to the head.  The virgin-to-combat
interpreter intellectual who begs for the life of the German prisoner citing
the "rules of war" is the one who is ultimately responsible for most of
their deaths.  As a recurring theme, the characters wonder why they sould
risk the lives of their squadron to search for a man who is probably dead. 
To these I say, "Please contrive your metaphors and heavy-handed imagery a
little more Mr. Spielberg.  Maybe then I wont have to think at ALL during
your movies.  Maybe you'll attain a level of patronizing that will remove
the need for audiences to realize their own feelings.  Perhaps have someone
stand at the front of the theatre with cue cards displaying the emotion you
want the audience to experience in each scene. The problem with taking Speilberg seriously about anything is of course his
sticky-sweeet sentimentality.  Think E.T.  Think Cocoon.  Think the old
folks home skit in Twilight Zone: The Movie.  The only place it has worked
well is Schindler's List when, taking a moment outside himself, Spielberg
created a powerful and moving drama.  I think this is largely due to Liam
Neeson's solid performance. I guarantee anyone with a developed sense of irony and individuality will
after seeing this movie on the small screen take their accolades down a
notch and stop praising Speilberg for being someone he isn't:  Frank
Capra.

******
3 September 1999
3

After the first 20 minutes or so of incredibly gut-wrenching special
effects, Saving Private Ryan becomes a rather simple (and simple-minded) war
movie with a cliched plot and cardboard characters. While Tom Hanks and the
other actors do a reasonable job, there really isn't much meat for them to
chew on, acting-wise.After leaving the theater, my initial impression was "wow, what a great
movie." But 20 minutes later, I realized that I was basing my opinion on the
spectacular opening act, which really presented a realistic view of a large
scale offensive.But that's about all the movie has going for it. The first act leaves the
audience stunned, and Spielberg uses the diversion to traipse through the
rest of the movie with nary a thought of actually doing anything remotely
original or interesting. At the end, I really didn't care if Ryan was saved
or not. 

******
5 August 1999
10

This century has seen two world wars and this is the time when all of us
should say "We dont want any more." This movie will make us think about
the
brutal side of war. Spielberg has done an absolutely perfect job. This
movie
is the masterpiece of Spielberg. Probably, the most significant movie of
this century. 

******
23 June 1999
10

I saw Private Ryan last week for the second time. I thought that the first
25 minutes would not be so impressive as the first time. But I was wrong.
Even for the second time i was amazed by the scene of the soldiers landing
in Normandie. I think that it is the most horrific scene i ever saw,
especially considering the fact that it all really happened I think that
the
first half hour off this movie gives the best impression of how it must
have
been in 1944. The sound effects are just magnificent and i think it should
have won the Oscar for best movie.

******
16 June 1999
10

Tom Hanks(big) heads a great cast in a voyage that takes the audience back
to a time of despair. The whole cast give superb performances-Tom
Sizemore(heat),Ed Burns(she's the one)Matt Damon(good will hunting)and
jeremy davies(twister) are tremendous in a tear jerking film that breaks
the
hardest of hearts. This film will be remembered for the opening battle on
Omagh Beach in which we were slaughtered terribly. However, I can't help
thinking that the rental experience would be quite as good as the surround
sound cinema. Still, it is a great film with superb performances.
Rating=5/5


******
13 June 1999
10

This movie is one of the best war movies of all time!!!
The first 15 minutes are very shocking and there is a lot of blood but
it's
one of the best part of it.
The directing was excellent;Spielberg couldn't do better;especially at the
15
first minutes.
The story is quite good and shows you all the misery of the second world
war.
The actor were fantastic;especially Tom Hanks and Matt
Damon.After watching this movie you will feel very lucky if you didn't go war
one
day.Watch it it's a beautifull movie!!!!!!!

******
31 May 1999
10

This film has a very deep and personal meaning for me.  My dad was a WWII
combat veteran. After seeing this film, I looked at my dad's army photo
and
metals hanging on our living room wall and I thanked my dad for fighting
for
our freedom then I cried my eyes out.This is the best and most realistic war film I have ever seen (ranking
above
PLATOON and GLORY.) Stephen Spielberg really deserved his best director
Oscar, because of the great camera angles during the intense Omaha Beach
scene. Terrific performances all around.Thank you, Mr. Spielberg for a powerful film that makes us feel even more
thankful for the veterans on this Memorial Day.

******
14 May 1999
4

The first 30 minutes (at Omaha beach) is 
absolutely a knock-out!  Incredible realistic
scenes! Masterpiece direction by Spielberg!
But the rest of the movie is just like any
Spielberg film : old stuff with a new feeling.
We saw that kind of story a thousand times:
Attack (1956) Red Badge of courage (1951)
Walk in the sun (1946) All quiet on the
western front (1930) There's also a 1919
Universal war movie, Heart of humanity, telling
the story of a mother who lost all his sons
in World War I, except one...
But the Omaha Beach is absolutely amazing!
The rest is just Hollywood entertainment.


******
29 March 1999
10

Put together the greatest actor of his generation - Tom Hanks and the
greatest director of his era - Steven Spielberg and you will get a great
movie. This is probably the greatest war movie ever made. The opening
sequence of the Omaha Beach landing sets the tone for the entire film. Hanks
brings great brevity to his role, it seems custom made for him. Great
cinematography and a wonderful support cast make for a very absorbing
movie. 

******
25 March 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan was one of the best movies I have ever witnessed
in
my life.  I don't recommend children seeing this movie though because, it
is
also the bloodiest movie I have ever seen.  I feel Saving Private Ryan
should have one the best picture oscar at the academy awards.  It was an
outstanding film.  

******
22 March 1999
10

I was physically sickened when I witnessed the outcome of the Oscars this
evening. When Steven Spielberg won Best Director honors, I was immensely
pleased. I thought that Saving Private Ryan, the best film of 1998, and the
best war film ever would surely take Best Picture honors. However, when
Harrison Ford announced that Shakespeare in Love was Best Picture, I was on
the verge of vomiting. While Shakespeare in Love may have been a decent
film, it was resoundingly light, fluffy fare that didn't deserve to win Best
Actress (that should have gone to Cate Blanchett), nor Best Picture.Now that I've put Shakespeare in Love down enough (not entirely enough, but
as much as possible right now), I want to write about the virtues of Saving
Private Ryan. When I first saw this movie, I was amazed at every single
element. Nothing was flawed in this film. The sound was amazing, as was the
cinematography, the editing, the screenplay, the incredibly subdued
performance of Tom Hanks, and the tremendous supporting cast. With the
bookends of the two extraordinary battles, and the framing sequences that
mean say so very much about the meaning and loss in war with so few words,
Saving Private Ryan was obviously both the best film of 1998, and the best
film about war ever filmed. Because of this, it will be remembered long
after Shakespeare in Love goes the way of Tom Jones, The Life of Emile Zola,
and all of those other forgettable Best Pictures that have come before.
Steven Spielberg did a great service to WWII veterans, and the movie-going
public with this film, and I hope that it's remembered for much longer than
the light, meaningless Shakespeare in Love.  

******
29 December 1998
10

I may be going against the grain here, but, if you haven't seen it yet then
let me give you some advice.... don't!It is a really well made movie, the storyline, the actors, the effects, the
music, all are excellent... the highest quality... if this movie doesn't win
a clutch of Oscars then there is something seriously wrong with
Hollywood.So after all of this why would I recommend NOT going to see it? Because I
think that this movie is the most psychologically disturbing and shocking
movie I have ever seen in my life on this planet. I read the revues about
the realism of the war scenes and thought what the hell it can't be any
worse than "Platoon" or "Full Metal Jacket", I'll give it a try... bad lapse
of judgement.The movie is three hours long, and after maybe the first ten minutes I
wanted to leave... but the thought was that sooner or later this assault on
the senses must let-up... you wait and you wait and you wait, and it
doesn't! The realism, the emotions, the atmosphere of war, are all there for
the three full hours. Even in the quiet, I can't use the word peaceful,
moments of the movie there are still the oppressive feelings of the
expectation that this certainly can not last... and it doesn't. These
moments are played to the best effects of the greatest suspense
movies.My friend and I left the cinema after the final credits, we couldn't say
anything....I don't know whether to think of Mr. Spielberg as the greatest movie maker
on the face of this planet... or the most irresponsible manufacturer of
shock horror movies ever... but this is really not the correct way to put it
because, shocking it was without a shadow of a doubt, but, horror it most
definitely was not... If you watched all of the news, or documentaries, that
were ever made about the scenes and effects of war it would not be one
percent of the preparation required to watch this movie.Anyone who sees this movie can not fail to be affected by it... consequently
I tend to ere on the side of Mr Spielberg being a little irresponsible. War
is a fact of human life, we can never escape some peoples urge to kill each
other... but why show it so graphically on the large screen? At some point
in the future, although I hope it never happens, some of our offspring will
have to go-out and fight a war for us... why do we have to be shown what
they will face?As you can see... I was just a tad affected by this film.
But what can I say, Mr Spielberg has outdone Mr Cameron yet again...
although my feeling is that this movie will not get the recognition of
"Titanic" for three reasons: there is no love story, there is no Di-caprio
or Winslet... and America does not come out of this movie with the flag of
rationality and reason flying high... more like at half mast with no
breeze...


******
17 November 1998
10

I feel that the one thing that characterised this show more than anything
else for myself was the total lack of sensationalism in the movie. So little
of the show seemed contrived, but it just simply feels like the way it was
like. Too many movies today appear to demonstrate violence and carnage for
its sake, but they invariably never made me feel for it the way that SPR
did.Some comments indicate that SPR is nationalistic. For me, it wasn't, and I'm
an Asian. After watching the show, I felt saddened for the sheer numbers of
lives wasted, and the hundreds of thousands of young soldiers- of ALL
nationalities, not just Americans- for their tremendous sacrifice in the
carnage. The leaders of the antagonistic nations be dammed, but it was the
common soldier who had to die senselessly. 

******
8 November 1998
10

After having to watch Saving Private Ryan, it makes one to sit down quietly
and think about the lifestyle we are enjoying right now. This show is very
emotional in some scenes where those soldiers have sacrificed their lives in
order to win the war as well as saving a private. This movie shows how
terrible it is to have a war breaking out and having lose loved ones during
war time. Let's hope that this is the last war.

******
15 October 1998
10

As a surgeon that treats wounded soldiers, I was shocked to see the
concealed parts of my professional life totally exposed to the unsuspecting
individual. This movie is indeed a landmark that exposes the true side of
the "romantic" wars that have been part of our cultural upbringing for
decades, shattering the notion that war is an exciting adventure. It is not
! Soldiers are usually 18-20 year old boys, that get ripped apart by metal
objects that kill, maim and cause terrible pain and anguish to their
families. Even though this movie had it's Hollywood side, it succeeded in
conveying the true nature of warfare - killing in every conceivable way. The
ghastly scenes of spilled guts, and blown off limbs are accurate to a point
that brings back vivid memories to those that treat wounded soldiers. I
sincerely hope that this very explicit movie will cause people to understand
the true horrors of war. As Marlon Brando uttered in Apocalypse now: "The
horror, the horror".

******
12 October 1998
2

If you don't like typical American movies, playing cheaply with human
emotions: go and spend your well earned money elsewhere.Or leave the theatre after the Rangers have captured the beachhead, because
that is the only original input Steven Spielberg has made with his overrated
Saving Private Ryan.
Maybe your local theatre is showing an old WWII classic
?!

******
3 August 1998
9
This is one of the most affective movies I've ever seen, and
it will probably be a classic, because of it's realism. GREAT MOVIE!!


******
26 August 2014
9
"Saving Private Ryan", is one of the most pivotal moments in both
Steven Spielberg's career, and the War genre in motion picture history.It follows United States Army Rangers Captain John H. Miller (Tom
Hanks), and his squad (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin
Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, Adam Goldberg and Jeremy Davies) as they
search for Private First Class James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), who is
the last-surviving brother of four servicemen.Most notably to be said about the movie, is the depiction of the Omaha
landings. Basically, it was a war re-enactment consisting of 1500
extras and 30 or so amputees. Spielberg did not plan ahead in terms of
storyboarding, but instead decided to place the camera where it was
best suited for spontaneous reactions. Admist all the amazing locations
and bombed out villages, every soldier is relying on one solid emotion
to get through the war, hope, which comes in the form of the missing
Private Ryan. Unfortunately, that hope is tested as inevitable
casualties will demoralise and divide the squadron.This film covers pretty much all aspects of war. The tension, nature
and sadness of it all gets stripped bare, as all stones are turned and
the end result is one of poetic beauty. However, I never really found
myself caring whether they found Ryan or not. Though the ending can't
help but feel forced, it's certainly touching and has a lot of
patriotism in mind.Final Verdict: Definitely one of Spielberg's finest. I look forward to
watching "Band of Brothers" (2001), and seeing what this man can do
with more running time. 9/10.

******
14 May 2014
9
Steven Spielberg was the only director's name I knew for a long portion
of my life.Mainly because I was a narcissistic young lad and due to his first
name, I presumed he must be brilliant.But he spells it incorrectly.'Stephen' is spelled with a 'ph' not a 'v'.Anybody worth their salt knows that.Saving Private Ryan is a lot like it's director's first name - it's a
near perfect film.The only blemish on this entire movie is the opening and ending ten
minutes, the two scenes featuring the old man revisiting the tombstones
at Normandy. They are totally unnecessary to the plot of the film and
hokey as all get out.Otherwise all of the narrative which takes place during World War II is
sensational.Sure the scene where they storm the beaches on D-Day is a marvelous
sight to behold, but don't let that detract from the scenes that
follow. It's all good stuff.Tom Hanks leads a cast of fantastic characters including Edward Burns,
Tom Sizemore, Vin Diesel, Adam Goldberg, Giovanni Ribisi, Jeremy
Davies, Barry Pepper, Matt Damon, Dennis Farina, Ted Danson, Brian
Cranston and Paul Giamatti.All deliver exceptional performances throughout.If you've been keeping SPR in the back pocket like me, let it out
anytime.You'll enjoy this film.But stop reading here, I'm going to spoil a few things.Vin Diesel is very good in this movie, and it gets a little dusty when
his character dies, but it seems like there is some ADR (additional
dialogue recording) shoved into the scene directly preceding.The only portion of the movie that may ruin the suspension of disbelief
is here, when Vin takes the daughter. The scene is a bit unbelievable,
it only lasts a second, but something is lost to the viewer. I think
the ADR might be part of the reason.Speaking of, when he's laying there and takes out the note for his
father, I'm almost certain there is ADR because his lines do not match
up with his lips or body language.Anyway, if I were to criticize that scene, I'd be nitpicking. It still
gets dusty no matter what he's saying.To address my earlier criticism, you might argue that the 'bookends'
(the scenes in which we see Matt Damon all grown up, having fathered at
least two generations) are necessary to provide redemption to the
deceased characters.This is a fair point, but I don't think we need this kind of
handholding. I don't believe anyone would have wondered whether or not
he went on to father children. Almost all of the characters are heroic
(especially Private Ryan) and we know that he's alive at the end of
their mission.They are required to give him another chance, and that's made apparent
by his survival during the film's climax. The viewer can presume he
will make the best of the life they've sacrificed for.But this is all semantics. Leave the scenes in, for all I care.Saving Private Ryan is a fantastic movie.

******
18 April 2014
10
Saving Private Ryan is a great film. The film's second scene, which is
based on Omaha Beach on D-Day really makes the whole film 10/10, as if
it wasn't for that scene, I would have probably given it an 8/10. This
is because of the action in the scene, as Steven Spielberg shows a good
example of what happened to the soldiers that day, and what a struggle
it was. Other than the D-Day scene, the film is still amazing, as it
provides lots of drama, such as the scene with the tense sniper game,
and the parents daughter being taken. Also the part in the destroyed
town, which is a big part of the story. Altogether Saving Private Ryan
is a spectacular film, and I would recommend it to anyone.

******
23 January 2013
1
Saving Private Ryan is awash with wildly exaggerated scenes of carnage.
Seems like every member of the GRRREATEST Generation wants to be
remembered for the kind of over-the-top violence that has graced
Vietnam War films. "Oh yeah, that's just how it was!" Right. Looks like
Omaha Beach lost every other guy. Nope. One in ten.We have pictures of the Normandy Landing. Look at them. Does the beach
look anything like Spielberg's beach? Spielberg's beach looks like a
video game. Bullets streaking through the water and killing the
soldiers as they swim up from the bottom of sea. This is how history
gets rewritten.Suppose there was one landing boat that landed right in front of a pill
box (good thinking) and got hell shot out of it. Why is Spielberg
showing that one unfortunate boat? Feel manipulated? Get used to it.
This whole soap opera is chock full of Bridges-of-Madison-County drawn-
out boring melodramatic scenes designed to pluck at your heart strings.Oliver Stone complains that Spielberg is playing into the "Good War"
mantra that is currently being used to finance the War on Terror. I saw
no signs of that. I saw US soldiers shooting down unarmed POWs and
beating prisoners. A touch of Vietnam to thrill our taste for revenge?
Or is it just part of the arms race between chicken-hawk war directors
trying to stimulate our jaded tastes?The acting is atrocious. It's hard to blame the actors, really, since
we don't get to know them at all. They are simply red-shirts waiting
their turn to get shot down or get into hissy fits. Tom Hanks is Tom
Hanks (as always). There's no tension. We know what's going to happen,
we're just waiting for it. And it all unfolds so slowly. It's boring.
The scenes that could contain some excitement are spent in a quick and
confused blur. It's a mess. There's no more artistry in this movie than
is contained in your typical music video. Halftracks and Rangers pop up
out of nowhere as our heroes cross an open field. Endless streams of
machine gun fire pour out from nowhere in particular. It's just
ludicrous.There are few scenes in Saving Private Ryan that aren't replete with
unnaturally sentimental dialog, unrealistic dissension in the ranks,
haunted stares, tears, and Hollywood's rendition of jaunty, chummy
talk. They might as well have been a bunch of teenage girls. One Star,
for the CGI.

******
14 May 2010
9
After the D-Day invasion of Omaha Beach, Ranger Captain John Miller
(Tom Hanks) is tasked to put together a platoon of his choosing and
find a paratrooper from the 101st Airbourne named Private James Ryan.
With the platoon of his choosing (Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry
Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi, and Jeremy Davies)
sets off in treachorous wartime France to find Private Ryan amongst a
field of full of enemies and a split up 101st Airbourne.World War I is often considering "The Great War" or "The War to End All
Wars," but few military conflicts have caught the hearts and minds of
the American, and the world, consciousness the way that World War II
has. For the first time during a war, films were made about the war as
early as 1939. Some of the greatest war films and TV series have been
based on World War 2 from The Sands of Iwo Jima to Flags of Fathers to
Band of Brothers. At the end of the 20th century, with a career full of
highly critically and commercially successful hits under his belt,
Steven Spielberg took another turn at the war film (following 1979's
1941) with Saving Private Ryan.Saving Private Ryan is arguably the greatest war film ever made. The
opening thirty minutes of the D-Day invasion is possibly the greatest
scene ever committed to celluloid. But it's not just the harrowing
scenes of war time that make this movie so great, it's the character
building, the camaraderie between the soldiers, the devotion to duty,
and the bravery of these men in combat. This movie truly depicts why
World War 2 soldiers were possibly the greatest soldiers in US history.One of the great things about the casting in Saving Private Ryan is the
fact that they chose actors that look like everyday men rather than
picking men that look like action heroes, and because of that the
acting in this movie is amazing. Tom Hanks gives a wonderfully
authoritative and still understated performance as Capt. John Miller.
Vin Diesel hasn't been this good since, and Barry Pepper as is
sensational as religious sniper Pvt. Daniel Jackson. Even Jeremy Davies
as the green Cpl. Upham makes you feel for his character despite his
very obvious flaws as a soldier.The one thing that drags this movie down though is Spielberg's slavish
devotion to sentimentality. The bookends to the film are completely
unneeded and drags down what is otherwise an utterly great movie. Don't
get me wrong, a former soldier's sentimentality for the one's who died
to save him has it's place, I just feel as though that should have been
more reserved for the former soldiers watching this movie remembering
those who died with and for them then on the screen in this movie.
Rather, the movie should have just been devoted to remembering the
bravery and camaraderie of the men who fought in the war.Overall, though, in the scheme of things, despite the minor flaw that I
have with this movie, it is definitely still the greatest movie in my
mind dedicated to the men who have served our country. I don't just
recommend this movie, if you haven't seen this you need to watch it,
and now that it's out on Blu-Ray this is the perfect time to pick up
this movie and watch it, or to watch it again.4.5/5

******
11 March 2010
5
Not a bad film, but not at all memorable. Of course the beginning and
end are mawkish and irritating. The Omaha beach sequence it has to be
said is exciting. Now i'll openly admit i'm a bit of an anorak....but
some of the scenes during the final battle sequence were laughable.
Firstly, considering they were likely part of an experienced Panzer
division the Germans were ridiculously naive tactically. In reality
they would have made life a lot harder for the Americans until air
support arrived. (in the unlikely form of P51s, British Typhoons would
have been most likely) The second point i'd like cleared up is the matter of the sniper in the
bell tower and his demise. He ls dispatched by what looks to me like a
tank destroyer with a long barrel 75mm!? IF the piece could have been
elevated that far it would have been firing an AP round which would
most likely have passed straight through the tower doing little or NO
damage. In reality the Germans would have kept their Panzers and tank
destroyers largely static and used them for ambush only???

******
2 November 2009
5
Yes, the opening beach scenes are very dramatic and mighty, quite
moving, but the actual story is sentimental and corny. The worst thing
for me, though, by far, was the final scene in the cemetery - this
isn't a spoiler because the film has been out for so long now anyway.
Ryan's final salute and words of gibberish don't go anywhere near, in
my opinion, expressing the depth and profoundity of the experience.
It's so sloppy it actually makes you want to vomit and I question here
why Spielberg, at the final moment, allows the superficiality of
nationalism to take precedence over humanity. It's as if Spielberg is
saying Ryan is first and foremost an American before he is a human
being.

******
14 August 2009
10
It's been more than ten years since I convinced my mom to take me to
see Saving Private Ryan at the World premiere in '97. I was 16, and the
movie had an R rating.Needless to say I had quite a surprise coming my way.Since I was a kid I've always been fond of War history and I have read
countless books, seen documentaries and so on. Nothing however, have
ever opened my eyes like Saving Private Ryan.In this masterpiece, Spielberg puts you right there on the beach. The
excellent photography by Janusz Kaminski (for which he won an Oscar)
and amazing sound effects in the breathtaking opening scenes is
probably the best sequences in a movie ever. It really makes you feel
like you're actually there in person.Where other war movies often glamorizes the soldier, gives war that
romantic "Hero" touch, Saving Private Ryan hacks into your mind like no
other movie. It is rough, chillingly brutal, and beautiful at the same
time. It tries in no way to give you an illusion, it simply tries to
give the audience the feeling of how it was like to be there.This is where Saving Private Ryan succeeds.I dare say that no other movie has managed to put a given scenario into
such a breathtakingly good movie.As for the acting, Hanks does a fine job as Cpt. Miller. Even Vin
Diesel - Mr. Testosterone - pulls of a convincing role as Caparzo.
Giovanni Ribisi was for me maybe the biggest surprise of them all; I
dare say his acting style was perfect for the role of Wade.All in all, I can't find any war movie better, and hardly any movie at
all to compete from any category. As for war movies, Apocalypse Now is
a masterpiece in itself but not even that comes close to SPR in
describing the brutality of war.I used to love the idea of being a soldier. After seeing this movie
more than ten years ago I never dreamed of being one again.

******
22 June 2008
10
Saving Private Ryan is probably on of the greatest war films ever made,
along with Paths of Glory and Appocalypse Now.The way that Spielberg develops the characters throughout the film is
very good. My Grand-Father along with many other people who fought in
WW2 would say it is very very very realistic. Especially in the opening scene at the beaches and the final battle at
the end.Tom hanks is brilliant in it as well as the rest of the cast, It's
brilliantly shot and very very well made.It shows what the life was like for a WW2 soldier.And it shows the Absolute Hell of war and what is what like to be
there.Many people would say they cried at the end, even men because it is
just so moving to think how or why we do this and how could we have
done this to each other, and Tom Hank's last words made it even more
moving. It has Beautiful music and is a Gem of a film.I would definitely recommend it for 12 years and above, and it should
be shown to every child out there to teach them the reality of war.If you haven't seen this already go and buy the DVD now! If there was a
higher rating than 10 I would it a 100.Brilliant

******
28 April 2008
9
Words cannot describe the greatness of this film. Hell, if I type a
long review of this film, it might take away the film's credibility. So
I'm gonna keep this review short, sweet and simple.ACTING: Superb. Likable characters and they put you, the audience,
smack dab in the middle of the war. Tom Hanks is outstanding. Notable
mention is Jeremy Davies who does a great job portraying the
contrasting soldier, Upham.DIRECTION: Excellent. Frenetic camera movement, thrilling and extremely
realistic action sequences. Spielberg is masterful, as always. He
manages to show the audience how nightmarish war really is.STORY/SCREENPLAY: Storywise, it is uplifting and inspiring. And during
historical moments, it is accurate and realistic. Screenplay slips into
sentimental state during times, but we'd look over that.CINEMATOGRAPHY: Mesmerizing. At times we look at the horrors of war
with the nightmarish (there goes that word again) display of a
blood-drenched beach and war-torn cities. The color modification really
helps the effectiveness of the cinematography.MUSIC: Is put into places where it should be. John Williams does a
fantastic job once again.OVERALL: In short, definitely in my favorite movies list, and on the
critical side, one of the greatest movies ever made. This film deserves
to be owned and watched by film lovers.9.966/10Delton

******
25 January 2008
9
OK first off let me be clear on a few points: I rarely, if ever, write
reviews. Second, I am not American, I'm a proud Canadian. I'm not
enlisted in our military, nor am I a veteran.Saving Private Ryan has turned out to be, in my opinion, one of the
most moving films in the last 40 years. So realistic that Veterans of
the War and in particular Operation Overlord (or Operation Atlantic for
the Canadians participation on June 6, 1944) have a hard time watching
the movie.Now, the events that the 8 soldiers in the movie participate in are an
amalgamation of several different events that happened to different
people throughout the real war: While Charlie Company, 2nd Rangers
Battalion did participate in Overlord, they were at Pointe du Hoc, not
Omaha Beach as depicted here. The rescue of Sgt Fredrick Niland was not
done by a group of rangers, but rather by a French chaplain. Bridges
were a common point of contention and it was not unheard of to see a
small group of soldiers defending such an important transportation
artery.Saving Private Ryan takes these events and more and weaves them into an
incredible story of the courage and honor that has left me stunned time
and time again. Unlike so many movie characters these days, I see a
depth to these characters. Mellish is a Jew. Miller is a schoolteacher.
Jackson is a Christian. And of course the somewhat nerdy Corporal
Upham.On the other side we have Steamboat Willie, unfortunately the only
German (being German does NOT make him Nazi) soldier we see a whole lot
of. It is likely that, like the Americans, he is only following orders,
as the Nazi Regime in those days "recruited" as many able bodied
soldiers as they could - including POWs, like the Czechs.In addition if you think that the blood and gore is an attempt to
provide "entertainment value" to this film, then maybe you need to look
up the real WWII. In contrast SPR is much more sterile in that respect
than the war really was. War is a bloody, horrible, terrible thing, and
SPR comes very close to that reality. Blown off limbs, spilled guts,
and blood are unfortunate realities.If your looking for a film to watch for entertainment value, don't
bother with this one. If, on the other hand, you want to watch a movie
that is a worthy tribute to our Veterans - American, Canadian, British
- this one is well worth your while. Start to finish, this film gives
me a sense of pride to think of all those people in our military who
fight so hard and put their lives on the line just so ordinary people
like myself can stay free and live our lives the way we were meant to.
My hat's off to those people, with a heartfelt thanks and prayer.One last note, I have heard of this film (and even the real Operation)
being paralleled and compared with the computer game Medal of Honor:
Allied Assault (or MOHAA for short). Let me be crystal clear on this
point: It was a good game (I played it) but it was just that - a game.
If you die, you can start over until you win. The same was not true for
all the people that gave their lives during this bloody campaign. None
of them had a health bar of 100 and a start button for another chance
at the battle.My hats off to Steven Spielberg and the Cast for such a superb effort!

******
31 December 2007
10
This movie is a masterpiece. It is very rare to see a movie and truly
be moved by it. From start to finish, you are so immersed in this film
that you are feeling every emotion of every character as if you were
them. The true underlying message is often hard for most people to pick
out, but if you truly grasp what this movie is about, you will realize
just how beautiful a movie can be.The audio in this movie and the gritty, unflinching realism grabs you
and pulls you into the war that Spielberg has so incredibly painted on
the screen. The opening scene of D-Day is perhaps the single most
dramatic and immersive movie experience I have ever come across in my
entire life.Unlike most films, every death you witness in this film stabs at your
conscience. You truly feel the adrenaline of the killer, the pain of
the soldier, and the sorrow of the soldier's friends every time someone
dies.This is perhaps the greatest movie ever made, even beyond the war
genre. Every piece of this masterpiece is a work of art. The terrifying
and realistic sound effects, the emotional and beautiful soundtrack,
and the flawless performance by the actors makes this movie
unforgettable.

******
20 November 2007
10
There are few movies in history that can deeply affect us and leave an
undeniable emotional impression. This film is one such. I can remember
exiting the theater on weak knees, not from sitting for so long, but
from the emotional turmoil it caused.Certainly an average Joe like myself who has never served in the
military nor ever faced combat cannot truly fathom the horror of war.
But since a number of WWII combat veterans who viewed the film were
impressed by its realism, I can safely say that my feelings in leaving
the theater were more than justified.It's easy to criticize a war movie for being limited in scope, as Ryan
was, but in my opinion it makes for a much more visceral, intense, and
satisfying movie experience. Some films, like "Patton," "The Longest
Day," "Midway," and a number of others have tried to better represent
the monumental undertaking that was WWII. While I commend such efforts,
the focus therein is too broad - one cannot appreciate the individual
sacrifice and emotion involved, and it's easy to get lost in the
numerous characters and distracted by the overall scope of the film.Ryan focused not only on one theater of the war, but in one
geographically small area. Additionally, it is seen through the eyes of
a small squad of American soldiers. I would not have wanted it any
other way.Spielberg has outdone himself here, spotlighting his artistic range and
re-affirming why he is one of the greatest of American film directors.
Be warned - this is likely among the most intense war films of all
time, and is not for the weak of stomach or heart.But unlike many of the sanitized war movies of the past, this one gives
us a taste, however small, of what must have been a truly terrifying
and devastating experience.

******
8 November 2007
10
Most of us will never know what it was like on Omaha Beach June 6,
1944. Saving Private Ryan has without a doubt been the most realistic
war films ever made. This is as close as most of us will come to know
what it was like that day on the beach. Every character in this movie
is perfectly cast. Spielbeg shows us once again that he is one of the
best directors of his generation. The way he makes every character in
the movie seem like an everyman, is so realistic because after all
these guys aren't superheroes. There normal blue collar guys who work
for a living. This movie might just be the best war movie ever made, it
is right up there with Patton, The Longest Day, and Stalag 17. Even if
your not a war buff, watch it for the history. And as we all know "If
we do not know history we are doomed to repeat it."

******
23 September 2007
8
Saving Private Ryan is a WW2 film that begins on the Normandy beaches
of France on D-day, June 6th, 1944. The first 20 minutes are the most
intense and graphic depictions of war I have seen. The D-day beach
assaults will never be recreated so elegantly ever again. The noise,
carnage, and chaos overwhelms and deeply disturbs the viewer. Unlike
anything I have ever seen.So far through the film you have been following Captain Miller(Tom
Hanks) and his company on the beaches of Normandy. After the intense
battle the US Army counts its dead. Three brothers were killed on that
same day in Normandy. The 4th and youngest brother is James Francis
Ryan(Matt Damon), and he is not reported dead but his whereabouts are
unknown. Private Ryan is a paratrooper who jumped behind enemy lines as
a paratrooper the night before the landings. He is the last of the sons
that his mother still has. The army wants him found and brought back
home to safety. Captain Miller is now given this task to find Private
Ryan and bring him to safety.Captain Miller now travels across battle torn French country side to
find Private Ryan. But he does not travel alone. He travels with seven
of his own hand picked men from his company. On their journey they face
hard struggles. The mission becomes deadly and now the question is why
risk the lives of eight men to save the life of one? The men do finally
find Private Ryan but Ryan does not want to abandon his fellow comrades
who he has been fighting and holding out with. So now Captain Miller
and his men stay with Ryan and the troops he has been fighting with in
this bombed out town waiting to hold out until relief arrives. The
Germans are advancing on the town with many more troops and with tanks.
Captain Miller and the rest of the men are vastly outnumbered but are
going to try to hold on. What develops is one of the most graphic and
disturbing final stands I have ever seen in a war movie.Spielber masterfully directed the battle sequences. The battle scenes
attacked your senses. The special effects were mind boggling to say the
least. The scenes were so realistic and brutally graphic. So much blood
and carnage that truly disturbs the viewer. War is shown as what it is.
Nasty!!!!!!!!! The acting was very good all around except from I think Matt Damon. But
Tom Hanks never ceases to amaze me as he turns out one great
performance. The film also stars Tom Sizemoore and Edward Burns as part
of the rescue mission. Throughout the film there are many great cameos
from actors like Paul Giamatti and even Ted Danson. Overall the acting
was very good.The dialog was for the most part realistic but at some parts not as
much. Captain Miller's character seemed to know to much about all the
other operations that were happening in France. And some of the lines,
although not many, were a little cliché.I felt the film to be a little biased towards the Americans which I
hate to see in movies. Spielberg seemed to convey the Germans as evil
jerks. German soldiers were just like the American soldiers. There is a
difference between the German Army and the Nazi SS. So I was ashamed to
see the German soldiers representing evil. War should represent evil,
not German soldiers. Both sides are committing unforgiving violence.
Not just the Germans.Saving Privazte Ryan is a very good film. Everyone should at least
experience it once, especially if you are a WW2 buff. Very educational!
Not the best movie of all time but still very good.

******
25 August 2007
7
To be clear; I like the Normandy beach scene they're actually quite
brilliant. But the first and last scenes are those on the cemetery with
the old man and his family. Why are those scenes there? They are
totally obsolete. I don't need to hear the old man ask his wife if his
life was worth it. If the movie itself didn't make this clear then the
movie failed and the movie didn't fail.I saw the movie "A thin red line" a week earlier, and at first I was
disgusted by Saving Private Ryan. It just doesn't have the same weight.
But then again, you shouldn't compare these two movies as they are
totally different. And when I saw this one a few times at later stages
this became clear to me.The story itself is quite simple, and rightfully so. A bunch of
soldiers are send to save a last of four brothers. It needs to be
simple; it's the little things that make the soldiers so unique. The
little stories of Matt Damons, Tom Hanks and other characters make this
movie. And the comradery between the men is portrait very good as well.
It's not poetic, but men which are fighting (and trying to survive) in
an unforgiving war.I don't know, maybe it's just me. I just got a bit of a beef against
Steven Spielberg lately. When the plot has been clear he seem to insert
several more scenes that explain the plot again and again. He just
needs to stop this. It makes the movie unnecessary long and dull. He
does this with most of his movies in the last decade. And don't get me
wrong, I got nothing against long movies, but the length needs to fit
the movie.Just cut the first and last scene and all will be fine.

******
30 July 2007
10
You both are dim bulbs to say the least. The film is a fictional story
and purports to be just that, why people keep holding it to a
documentary standard is beyond me. But it's stupid to do that and
displays the limited intellect of those like twistedfieldofvision who
do just that.Carmad, you are not a writer. And nobody who works in your ward on the
psych wing believes your "I am Shakespeare" proclamations. I'm sure
your equally impotent teen pal who thinks he is Napoleon and occupies
the bunk above yours believes you, but consider the source on that one.This film is brilliant and is one of the top 3 movies S.S. ever made.
The speech where the General reads Lincoln's letter is touching and
very appropriate. WW2 was the moral equivalent of the war to free the
slaves. Tom Brokaw labels the fighting allied men of WW2 the GREATEST
GENERATION. He is correct. And their humility regarding what they did
for mankind's future is part of the reason that label is accurate.

******
27 July 2007
9
I've seen many war movies , in fact War is the genre that interests me
the most . However , Saving Private Ryan is a movie that stands apart
from all others . As soon as the film starts you know that the movie is
something special , there is something different in this movie as
compared to others on the same subject . Spielberg not only manages to
depict the brutality of war superbly but also manages to blend this
with the mission given to 8 American Soldiers . If you're a fan of
Warfare and violence then the first half hour of the movie will be
enough for you . It is an absolutely sensational and gripping depiction
of what these brave men must have gone through . Tom Hanks is brilliant
as usual , playing the role of Captain John H. Miller flawlessly . Some
of his conversation scenes with the other soldiers are very well
projected by Spielberg who again shows how good he is as a Director .
All in all this is one of the best movies I have ever seen and
certainly the best when it comes to a movie about War .

******
25 April 2007
10
This movie is truly the best war movie ever and one of the greatest
movies over all of all time. It is incredibly well made. The first 20
minutes of this movie is one of the greatest scenes of all time. It
made people realize the pain and what it felt what it was like to be at
D Day. It is truly amazing. This movie is very well made. The
cinematography. The sound and special effects. The score by John
Williams. This is easily Steven Spielberg's best movie ever. He totally
deserved to win the Best Director award at the Oscars. It should have
totally won best picture over Shakespeare in love. In the end, after
the fateful battle at the end, i will not tell what happens, it justs
leaves us with one question. Are the lives of eight men worth saving
one? Probably not. One of the greatest movies ever. 10/10.

******
9 March 2007
10
The long opening D-Day battle scene in "Saving Private Ryan" is a true
shocker, and you'd better believe what I say. I almost left the theater
the first time I saw it on a big screen; I can just barely stand it on
a TV screen. I can't watch "Saving Private Ryan" without bawling, and
that's not like me at all. How can I rate the damn thing when I can't
even see it through my tears? Tom Hanks as Captain John H. Miller. Matt
Damon as Private James Francis Ryan. Ted Danson as Captain Fred Hamill.
Jeremy Davies as Corporal Timothy P. Upham. And all the rest of the
actors, even Vin Diesel as short-lived Private Adrian Caparzo. Stellar
line-up.Listen: Tom Hanks always turns in a great acting performance, even when
the film into which he's thrust doesn't give him much of a chance. I
don't mean this film; I'm thinking of an inferior screenplay like "Cast
Away." Even there, Hanks almost made it great. In "Saving Private Ryan"
the screenplay and Hanks are really, truly great.I don't hand out tens easily.Enough said? Yes.

******
23 January 2007
9
Saving Private Ryan is (in a word) outstanding. Spielberg thrusts the
viewer into the Normandy campaign and you need a strong stomach to
endure this. The attack on Dog Green Sector, Omaha Beach is arguably
the most realistic movie portrayal of battle (notwithstanding that
breakthrough actually took over three hours).A brilliant innovation is the colour reduction (over 50%) which makes
you really believe it is 1944. Music is used to great effect in moments
of calm. The brutality of battle is clearly demonstrated as is the
sadness of loss of life, yet the campaign is necessary to end the
tyranny of Hitler and Nazi ideology.The storyline is a real strength and the characters & acting are
superb. Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) carries out his mission hoping to
return to his wife; only his shaking right hand alludes to the inner
turmoil he struggles with from soldiers dying under his command. He is
well supported by Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore), who maintains
discipline within the squad.But some cannot contain their doubts and even anger that eight lives
should be risked to save one. Though every man has a mother, you cannot
help feel that Ryan (Matt Damon) must be saved out of decency. Ryan
himself selflessly stays to defend his outnumbered "brothers" in spite
of the disaster to befall his family. Finally, "Steamboat Willie"
humanises the Germans when pleading for his life. Befriended by Upham,
he is released, yet returns to battle. His death shows that men who
could otherwise be friends will kill each other in war.Only a few historical inaccuracies detract from the brilliance of SPR.
Often outnumbered, the Germans conquered most of Europe by 1942 through
tactical skill in battle, something missing in their clumsy attack on
Ramelle. And tanks had bulletproof glass over vision ports, so driver
and radio operator could not be killed so easily. A role for the
British was lacking; sadly a Hawker Typhoon could not be used to bomb
the Tiger tank. In fact, a good knowledge of WW2 history is important
in order to place this film in context.Overall, this tactical and human story within the carnage of WW2 is a
must see for anyone who watches war movies. And don't miss the message
in Captain Miller's last words!

******
4 December 2006
3
Being interested in history enormously and loving films with an
historical background, I was very interested in this one at first. But
I really think this film is the very reason, I started to dislike
movies about WWII. American productions dealing with this topic always
include a lot of bathos, but this one was too much after all and I have
no clue how come, so many critics are amazed by it. The description of
the events is horribly one-sided and unrealistic that I can only
recommend to watch "Das Boot" or "Der Untergang" (downfall) instead to
get a realistic impression of what was going on back then.I still voted with three because the performance by Tom Hanks as a
soldier suffering from Parkinson was quite good and interesting. I'm
thus still waiting for a film showing the events on the American side
realistically.

******
13 August 2006
10
To begin I have to admit that this is one of the best war movies ever
made. No doubt Tom Hanks is splendid and he shows a real devoted
patriot soldier who cares for his family as much as his mother country.
The war scenes are excellent. One can hardly believe that it is a movie
because the way they have pictured the film is more like a documentary.
The bloodshed at the beginning of the film and the cemetery yard with
all the white crosses takes you up to the heaven. It is too rare that
one watches this movie and doesn't get shocked. Shocked to see so many
innocent boys killed at war and all this in vain because The US has
begun other wars in Asia and other sites. So FOR THE SAKE OF ALL THOSE
PATRIOT BOYS AND ALL CAPTIAN MILLERS DO NOT RAGE ANOTHER WAR TO KILL
AMERICA'S SONS

******
10 August 2006
10
I usually watch and give credit to European movies and usually hate the
Hollywood production. And I usually see a political statement in
"Schindlers list" which is commonly quoted as "his best movie" and "the
best movie about holocaust".However... after seeing S.P.R. I must agree that this is, if probably
not the "best movie ever made", the most "revolutionary war movie of
all time".The movie structure is like a poem. It shakes you in the beginning, it
calms you in the middle and it destroys you in the end verses. First of all... the first battle on Omaha beach... the moving camera...
the embed-ed reporter like camera... following the soldiers to the
beach... the explosions, arms, legs torn apart, the fear on soldiers
faces... the numbness... the on-and-off going sound after the bombs go
off... MAN! After seeing it for the first time... I went out of the
movie theater... and went to see it again for the second time! There
has never been a movie that glued me to the chair... and made me stare
for 25 minutes in silence! Well, that was a... romantic experience and
I give Spielberg credit for that.The middle of the movie... is exactly the opposite of the first. It's
not loud and disturbing... but silent and green. I must say it's the
greenest grass I have seen in a war movie... the soldiers walk and walk
and speak about stupid stuff... like they never went thru hell in the
landing at Omaha beach. When I watched this middle section I almost
felt good, but it felt very unnatural... and that's why after the
assault on the MG-42 nest... I felt shaken again. The dying red cross
soldier shot in the stomach... dying... in the arms of comrades...
UFFF. Some disturbing images.And of course... the last part... the total destruction, the panzer's
rolling thru the streets, the sniper... the self-made sticky bombs...
the ruble of houses, the fights one on one... wow. Some serious
sequences...I admired the photography, the clean pictures, however it is the moving
camera that makes this movie revolutionary... I think no director is
able to make again a credible war movie without the Spielberg's moving
camera... and that's why I consider him a GENIUS. I haven't seen a war
movie with static cameras after S.P.R came out.I must say that this movie can be judged in many ways... you can always
see a "shallow characterization" or even a demagogic view on the
Jew-German combat in the house... of course. However... if I exclude my
political view of this movie I would say that this is probably one of
the best I have ever seen.Only the Russian movie "Come and See" (orig. Idi i Smotri) made even a
harder impact on my view on what war is. And that's why I consider
Saving Private Ryan if not the best, then second best war movie ever
made.

******
23 July 2006
10
I was inspired to write this poem after watching "Saving Private Ryan"."FREEDOM"They'll make a shrine of this battleground with silent rifles and
tilted crowns, and who we were with names and dates and posthumous
medals commending our fates.Those who live will be the first to tell in stirring words of our lives
in hell, of who we were and how we fought, dying for friends we never
forgot.A bugle calls and Taps will sound for those we've laid to rest; heads
will bow and hands salute as those we mourn are blessed.Small white crosses are all that's left to show why we were here; we
struggled and died for a cause we'll hold forever dear.(c) 2004 by Richard L. Miller

******
23 April 2006
10
I first saw this film in the movie theater. The beginning of the
Normandy landing has not left my mind. It is one of the most
spectacular introduction to the film. You have a cast that includes
Spielberg's favorite actor, Tom Hanks, Matt Damon, Paul Giamati, one of
my personal favorites-Rolf Saxon in a non-speaking role. This film is
mostly a male-dominated film with little or no romance. SPielberg's
best asset is creating a spectacular image and this time, the landing
on Normandy was not for the easily sickened. You will see the graphic
display of the horror on that day which is what we should see. HE does
not shy away from showing us human brutality at its worst but he later
shows it at it's best. I didn't care much for the title about them
rescuing one soldier to bring home. I wanted Steven Spielberg to know
that this is his best film to date about World War II even surpassing
Schindler's List which I felt was inferior to this film. The script was
superb, the movie is just a breathtaking spectacle to date. It still
should be seen in the movie theaters to show the effects and brutality
and to remind us about how cruel war is on any level. he won the Oscar
for best director but after seeing Shakespeare in Love, there is no
doubt in my mind that Saving Private Ryan was robbed of Best Film.
Sorry, Shakespeare in Love!

******
9 April 2006
10
During the opening sequence when I saw the man's face and I was
preparing myself for a long flashback, a growing sense of dread
overcame me. Yet still I was not prepared for the horror that I was
exposed to for the next 2 1/2 hours. Horror is the only way to describe
this film. I wasn't simply watching the film. I was absorbed into it.
Steven Spielberg is arguably the most famous film director out there,
and for good reason too. He can make a film like no one else.
Everything here works so well, the acting, the action sequences, the
atmosphere and emotion. It's all here, and highly energized. This,
along with Schindler's List, one of the greatest films in cinematic
history. is Spielberg's masterpiece. One of the main reasons this film
works is his cinematographer Janusz Kiminski. The grit of the camera
sets up the atmosphere perfectly, and the lighting is superb because
even when it's a sunny day, it's still covered in darkness. People have
criticized this film for having a bad storyline. That's not true, not
at all. While the storyline is simple and nothing new, it's because
that's what it would have been like in real life. Life is not a
intricately woven storyline like say The Silence of the Lambs, and the
people with this film know that. The key to making this film work is
making it real. And that it does.

******
6 January 2006
5
I still remember seeing this film almost five years ago, and I was
never so sickened by any film in my life! Why? Because Spielberg gave
us a hell of a view of war!!! This film is not that of history, save
for the opening, gore fest battle that contained more than blood and
missing limbs like previous war films like Platoon or Glory. I can
easily understand that war is hell, which I'm glad Spielberg revelaed
to the world for a change. I'm not a gore lover, but this really caught
me off guard since I'm used to such violence from films as of
Braveheart and The Full Metal Jacket. However, I have to confess that
all I got from this film was blood and guts.So, after an agonizing thirty minutes of constant brutality, the film
picks up with a story of about a band of four brothers, three of them
are already dead, and only one remsins. So, a small force of eight men,
including portrayals of popular stars such as Tom Hanks and Tom
Sizemore, who didn't do much except shoot Germans with machine guns.
They are to find this man, retrieve him before he is killed, which
would result in the devastation of a his family. A very selfless task
it is, but as the man Ryan is found, after another hour and a half of
no character development with these eight men, no feeling for them, or
tears and grief...at least from me, and Ryan says he refuses to leave.I laugh and the only reason why this is so is because Spielberg wants
another bloody mess, feeling he hasn't shown enough killing! So,
another battle happens, with more deaths of both Germans and Americans,
leaving this whole film into a usless flashback. So, that's the whole
film in a way.I may sound to hate this film, but I don't, but I'm tired of people
claiming this is the best war film ever! Heck, other films I've listed
above are better than this for goodness sake! However, the realism was
well depicted, the music was haunting, and sad, but I had no feeling,
except for wanting to lose my lunch in the pit of my stomach, and the
usage of sound mixing, editing, and cinematography was truly Oscar
worthy. So, since Spielberg put effort into this film, I give a
generous ***1/2 out of *****.Seriously, I got nothing accept horrible images, and yearning for a
bucket in this two hour and fifty minute film.

******
1 November 2005
10
I first watched this film in the cinema when it first came out, and how
to describe it then... WOW! I was not the suitable age though, being
only 13 at the time and as imagined my impression of the film got
better the older i got. Too many people brand their favourite film as
'the greatest film of all time' but if you have seen this film, you
will agree with this common statement. However, 'Saving Private Ryan'
deserves more than a common statement. The action in the film is
intense and the detail has clearly spared no expense. The storyline
runs really well with the film and what a cast to play in it. This is
Tom Hanks at his best! Not to mention exceptional performances from Tom
Sizemore and Edward Burns. Matt Damon did well, however I felt he did
not suit the part. Steven Spielburg should be credited for being the
greatest film director; not from 'Schindler's List', but from 'Saving
Private Ryan'.

******
9 October 2005
10
To say Saving Private Ryan is a great war movie would be an
understatement. This movie deserves a place in the top 50.This movie would have been nothing without the amazing directing of
Steven Spielberg and I'm glad the academy honored him. This movie is
incredibly violent, but it is to show us what the soldiers of WW2 had
to endure. Without that, it would not have been as powerful.John Williams also delivers a very good musical score throughout the
film I especially enjoyed the cinema verite technique utilized by
Spielberg to give us the feel that we're on the battlefield with the
other soldiers.And, of course, there is Tom Hanks. One of his best performances. He is
undeniably one of the best actors of all time. I'm glad that he and
Spielberg teamed up for this. It wouldn't have been the same without
either of them.

******
24 September 2005
10
Many reviews I have heard about this movie that are negative all say
something along the lines that it shows the Americans as heroes, shows
the Germans as evil killing monsters, and that it basically is just a
big American Propaganda film. Lets be serious here, WW2 has been over
for quite a while, we know who won the war, we know who the bad guys
were...The Waffen SS and Hitler. So there is no need to have a WW2
propaganda film almost 60 years after the war had ended. The Wermacht
soldiers they do battle with in this film are not shown as monsters,
they are basically not given any character, just as the enemy that
needs to be killed in order to win the battle. Which is exactly what
the Germans were to the Allies in WW2. Not to mention the soldier that
confronts Upham on the stairwell, if the Germans were portrayed as
mindless killers then that Soldier would not have had a second's
hesitation to kill Upham. This film shows the war through the eyes of a
small group of US soldiers. The Germans are referred to as krauts, and
just as the enemy. This is deliberate during wars to show the enemy as
objects instead of human beings so it makes it easier for them to kill
the enemy.It shows the Americans as heroes...not for winning the war, but for the
battles they fight in during the course of the film. Yes it shows the
US soldiers taking Omaha Beach in 30 minutes when it obviously took a
lot more than that. But this movie is FICTIONAL it is only INSPIRED by
real events, nor does it say anywhere in the film "this movie is based
on a true story." It glorifies the deaths of the main characters,
because like i said before it is shown through the eyes of this group
of soldiers. Therefore they'd be up close and have their friends dying
in their arms, and it would be emotional. Not that it was any different
for the German soldiers, but the US soldiers wouldn't know because the
Germans were the enemy to them. If they were to make this film from the
German's point of view, then any American who hates it, and loves this
film is an ignorant hypocrite. So before you chastise Spielberg and the
film itself. Just think about that.

******
9 September 2005
8
...if Spielberg had resisted the urge to tack a big set piece on to the
last 30 minutes.Imagine watching the same movie except this time it ends at the point
that they catch up with Private Ryan.Up to that point Spielberg had shown such restraint and subtlety it was
disappointing to see it had been thrown away for a silly crowd pleaser.
The first 30 minutes of Saving Private Ryan clearly demonstrates the
sheer horror of war as well as the lives that are wasted in a way that
no previous movie had even attempted.The last 30 minutes on the other hand seem to follow the usual
approach, glamorising the whole experience with all the usual heroics
and bittersweet sentimentality that we have seen in a thousand war
movies before.Still having said that, this is still an excellent movie and is well
worth watching.

******
6 September 2005
9
=== CAN CONTAIN SPOILERS === This movie is one of the most beautiful movies ever seen. As a fan of
WW2 based movies I've seen a lot of such movies, but none of those
movies can be compared with the beautiful story of a group soldiers in
search of a soldier, named James Ryan, who they don't know, and never
saw, willing to give their lives for the job, to find him. in the
meantime, a bond between the soldiers exists. one by one their comrades
die, only to save one unknown one who is maybe already dead...I can tell you a lot of this movie, but the best way is to find out
yourself and watch the movie. you'll not regret it. it's only not
suited for people who can't stand blood in movies... think about the
first 30 minutes of the movie (Omaha Beach). If you like the turmoil
and especially the drama part of WW2, then I'll recommend you to watch
this superb movie. And of course, it's directed by Steven Spielberg :p
(hope that my first review is alright) :DNow, the only thing I have to do is to watch Band of brothers :D

******
5 August 2005
8
The movie has a lot of gratuitous scenes of violence (Don't need
Hollywood to show me that war is a violent activity). The movie has a
lot of stereotypical characters (Don't need Hollywood to portray
soldiers as being foul-mouthed and grimy). The movie has a pretentious
story (Don't believe that even the U. S. Army would risk 10 soldiers to
locate one, and an enlisted solder at that, in the middle of one of the
biggest operations in the history of warfare). But what saves this
movie from being a complete dud is Tom Hanks's portrayal of Captain
Miller. Hanks's performance is not just wonderful, it is superlative.
Captain Miller is a civilian who now finds himself in combat and the
conflict between his civilian background and military responsibilities
is what this movie is about. Because of this conflict, Captain Miller
suffers, emotionally as well as physically. We observe how Captain
Miller goes through a process of breaking down as his situation becomes
more and more untenable. And when the private in question is found, yet
refuses to leave, Captain Miller begins to completely unravel as he
realizes that his mission has failed and that the men in his unit who
died - under Captain Miller's command - had died in vain. Captain
Miller literally becomes a nervous wreck, but nevertheless he fights
on, courageous and strong till the ultimate moment arrives marking the
end of Captain Miller's life. For Captain Miller is a hero and his
character is symbolic of every citizen-soldier who answered the call to
duty, and made the ultimate sacrifice for their country.

******
3 July 2005
10
The plot of this movie was based on fact, which means that the actual
events that are depicted in the movie may not have happened exactly as
portrayed, but represent real events that did take place. If many who
saw this film complain about the lack of historical basis, lack of
minorities, lack of whatever, then get over it. Some events took place
in World War II that did not actually include members of all races or
nations. As for those who say the film is boring, then I can only
suppose that real life situations don't hold much appeal for you. If
you're that disconnected from the real world, go back to your video
game.World War II was a very grim time in the history of our civilization,
and it would be difficult to find anyone who actually participated in
battle during this period to disagree with me. I've known many
soldiers, and I've never met one that wished for the awful, bloody,
sickening carnage that is combat, especially the all-or-nothing
circumstances that were all to real in this world between 1939 and
1945. Soldiers are simply people who are willing to fight for their
country. In World War II, many of the American combatants were drafted,
and some did refuse to fight, as is the case in any war, but most
served, with or without distinction or recognition, but did what they
felt was their duty. Infantry soldiers, even Ranger captains like John
Miller were often ordinary people very much removed from the lives they
wanted to be living. Every country that participated in World War II
lost many John Millers, decent, ordinary people that were just doing
their duty to the best of their ability.For those who complain about the stark portrayal of combat as being too
brutal, I suggest you just live in your dream world where when a steel
projectile strikes human flesh, the body just simply falls to the
ground. You are living in a dream world to think this is so. Combat
invariably involves gruesome situations. Body parts are blown away,
blood and gore flies. "War is Hell" is not just a saying; it's the
absolute truth. Saving Private Ryan depicts combat with more accuracy than most war
films in the past have done. Watching this film will put the average
person much closer to the actual feeling of being in combat than almost
anything else. As for those that hate to be reminded of accurate depictions of
history, there is a saying: Those who ignore history will repeat it.
This movie, and the war it depicts hopefully have taught us some
valuable lessons. I hope we never forget them.If you're offended by a movie that shows the American flag, then don't
watch it. The realistic depiction of the USA as a patriotic nation in
the 1940's might be a little too much for you.

******
3 July 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan is quite possibly the best World War II-inspired
movie ever.I know, it's not at all historically accurate. I know, there are plot
points that don't make sense. I know and understand all these
criticisms.As a film, however, and as a statement on what war is and how war
affects people, this film is Top Notch and should have won the Best
Picture Oscar the year it was released.This film has exciting, graphic, horrifying and realistic battle
footage. The opening montage alone represents the best film-making
possible regardless of technology.The cast is simply brilliant, not a lame or hackneyed performance in
the bunch. Tom Hanks is again Oscar-worthy, and if they had an Oscar
for Best Ensemble Cast this film would have won hands-down.This film is absolutely *nothing* like the cheesy WWII movies with John
Wayne or Henry Fonda or Ernest Borgnine. This film is not all
jingoistic patriotism, it is a real look at what real war is like, with
heroic soldiers and cowardly soldiers and soldiers simply trying to do
their jobs and survive. It shows the futility of war and the necessity
of war. And it pulls no punches in showing the horrors of war.Beautifully shot, wonderfully acted, terrifically written, truly an
amazing piece of film-making.10 out of 10 for an inspiring film.Barky

******
28 June 2005
10
It seemed impossible (or was it inevitable?), but director Steven
Spielberg did the unthinkable: he made a war movie. The creative and
legendary mind behind such kiddie movies like "E.T. the
Extraterrestrial" (1982) or "Hook" (1991) and who had ventured into
more mature territory with "Schindler's List" (1993) made a movie that
put a human face on the horrors of the World War II conflict. We know
how personal WWII is to Spielberg (especially to anyone who's seen
"Raiders of the Lost Ark" - he just loves to stick it those diabolical
Nazis, or the aforementioned "Schindler's List"), but after seeing
"Saving Private Ryan" (1998), our assertions at just HOW personal it is
to him are revealed. Opening on D-Day (June 6, 1944) at Omaha Beach in
Normandy, France, the grainy cinematography and jerky camera movements
are relentlessly imposing in capturing the graphic battlefield carnage
of that day. We watch in horror as one after one, Allied soldiers are
butchered by the automatic weapons being unloaded on them by the
Germans that had taken up positions on the hills in front of them. In
the middle of the chaos, is Captain Miller (Tom Hanks), as he leads his
men from the sandy, bullet and body-riddled beach up to the top of the
hill. In the scenes that follow, Spielberg is unflinching as we see
American soldiers as well Germans become the casualties of history's
costliest conflict. The movie doesn't end there; it's only the
beginning and the main plot of the film, which is supposedly based on a
true story, takes shape. It turns out, that an American mother is going
to receive three telegrams in one day, each one informing her that her
three sons have all been killed in the D-Day invasion. But there is
hope: her fourth son, a paratrooper, the eponymous Private Ryan (Matt
Damon, in what could essentially be considered a cameo) of the film's
title, survived. The problem is, he's located deep behind enemy lines,
and it'll take a small squad of American soldiers to bring him home, as
word of this small victory will serve the army good on the home front.
Miller leads his squad, which includes Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore),
Private Reiben (Edward Burns), Private Jackson (Barry Pepper), Private
Mellish (Adam Goldberg), T-4 Medic Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), Private
Caparzo (Vin Diesel) and the unproven translator Corporal Upham (Jeremy
Davies), deep into the French countryside to rescue Private Ryan and
bring him home. It should be stated foremost that this is not an easy
movie to sit through. I remember hearing stories from when this film
first came about out how WWII veterans who were at D-Day had to be
escorted out of the theaters because it was too much for them to
handle. But still, that is its goal: "Saving Private Ryan" is the most
realistic, gritty, and horrifically violent war movie I've ever seen.
It does the impossible task of shedding itself of the stigmas
(patriotic flag-waving, one-dimensional soldiers, one-sided portraits
of the enemy, no battle-related carnage, etc.) that haunted many WWII
films made during the '50s and '60s; contrary to some reviews, none of
this goes on in this film. The film is immediately effective in its
portrait of soldiers on both sides of the WWII battle, and the cost it
waged on them. The performances are flawless, as Spielberg is able to
get commanding talent out of all the actors involved. The action, if
you can sit through it, will definitely make you squirm in your seat at
how realistic it is. It should also be noted that nearly every war film
since this one has tried to mimic the style of "Saving Private Ryan,"
but they can't ever live up to its originality and raw intensity.
"Saving Private Ryan" is Spielberg's WWII masterpiece, and is my
favorite war movie. It's no wonder Spielberg was voted #1 director of
all time; this film proves why.10/10

******
23 May 2005
10
This is a definite must see move.. How come this rating thing only
stops at 10..I'm thinking 100.From the opening scene, I think the movie makes the best effort to
capture the Normandy Landings on that cold, gray morning... Exceptional
stuff I'm a big fan on historic events and I think World war 2 put the
world in a point in history that will remain in the minds of a lot of
people. Not a lot of movies have been able to capture true and tragic
events. A lot of movies try and create a superman type character.
Saving Private Ryan goes into the mind of an officer who experiences
bravery, pain and fear. It captures patience and Love.... I am lost for
words

******
14 March 2005
10
To "bob the moo", this film won many awards and not only did it win
them it deserved them too. The reason it focuses on the "yanks" (We do
not like to be called this) is because that is where and when the
script was written. Introducing British characters would have probably
interrupted the story line. It isn't fair to the characters that are
making there way threw France.Important Thing! I have NOTHING against the British. I thank God for
the British. But just know this, if it weren't for the "YANKS" steppin
in Europe, you guys would have been wiped out! So there you go. Don't
hate us because we have a bigger film industry than you guys.Maybe this is an American Film but it has every right to be. It's
directed by Steven Spielberg for God's sake! He was "sir'd" by your
Queen. I suggest Band of Brothers for you. They got lots of "Brities"
in there.To make PERFECTLY clear, I respect England for its long-term fight in
WW1 and WW2. If it weren't for you guys, Hitler would have made his way
across the Atlantic. My Great grandfather fought in WW1 and he was
British.Sincerely, "Arbiter89"

******
16 February 2005
10
I cant fault this film in anyway,shape or form. Absolutely brilliant.
Tom Hanks once again proves that he still is one of the best actors of
our generation and there's also a little part for vin diesel. Now just
recently i have started my war film collection and now own most of the
best ones out there, but still this film has to be the most accurate
and exhilarating one of them all. Private James Ryan's three brothers
have been killed in action and to save the heart ache of their poor
mother (even more) Captain John Miller and his squad of highly trained
soldiers are sent further behind enemy lines to find Ryan and return
him to his mother safely. As you can probably gather not everything
goes to plan otherwise the film would be over before we finished our
brews, faced with impossible odds, the men start to question their
orders. Why are eight men risking their lives to save just one?
Surrounded by the brutal realities of war, each man searches for his
own answer- and the strength to triumph over an uncertain future with
honour, decency and courage. If you like this and lets face it if u
don't then u don't like a brill war film i recommend band of brothers,
which is a mini drama series on a para squad in WW2. Tom Hanks also
present that too.

******
9 January 2004
10

This is definetely one of my top ten. It includes a great cast, great
action
and a great story. I never really knew much about the second world war
until
I saw this movie. After I saw this movie, I became more interested in
history. After watching this movie a couple of times, I became more
familiar
with the second world war and how bad it really was. This is an excellent
movie. I give it 10 out of 10.

******
5 January 2004
3

I was unaware of the furore this film caused because it got passed over for
best picture by the Academy. Having watched both I have to say I think that
for once they got it pretty much right.
Sure, the landing scenes are awesome - they really are. They are the most
graphic and horrific depiction one could imagine being translated onto
screen. And, as a Brit who has also been to the beaches in question, I felt
extremely humbled and thankful for the incredible sacrifices
made.
But this is a film, not a vote on the actual perfomance of the heoric men
who fought to rid Europe of evil. And I'm afraid the second half of the film
gets progressively worse until we are left with a silly tale about Tom Hanks
saving the world. This is a real shame. The gravitas of the first part of
the film deserved better treatment.

******
2 January 2004
6

The first 20 minutes of Saving Private Ryan is probably the most realistic
depiction of war and the invasion of Normandy ever made. That being said,
the plot is far fetched and the story drags out for while without anything
really happening. There is very little character development and many of
the
characters you never really get to know all that very well.The last combat scene of the movie does not live up to the first. It was
very disappointing to me personally. In reality the German military was
highly trained and professional. In this movie they are reduced to cannon
fodder in the last 25 min. It seems to me there was two different
directors
on this movie - one for the first half and one for the second half.


******
8 September 2003
10

Watching "Saving Private Ryan" was one of my greatest cinematic experiences.
 The first twenty minutes of the film is truly astonishing. It's as if I was
actually running up the beach, with bullets going all around me, slicing
people to bits and bombs blowing off everywhere, tearing everyone to shreds.
There was a feeling of total hopelessness of the existing and forthcoming
carnage around me.I remember when I first saw the film, there was somebody left of me who was
so traumatized by the Omaha invasion sequence, she covered her eyes and went
out of the theater. There was a seemingly hardened old man right of me who
said he has never have seen such horrifying experience in his
life.Yes, this film has many flaws. I found the script to be very conventional
and there were many corny cliches. The characters are not very well
developed. Even the tank battle at the end, an amazing scene than matched
the Omaha scene in tension, is pretty much Hollywoodized; it showed many
military inaccuracies.  I had participated in message boards that many
military analysts rightfully criticized the ending as being very
unrealistic.However, it's still hard to not say this is a groundbreaking powerhouse of a
war film that will (and had probably already) changed Hollywood war cinema
forever. The intense violence of this film will teach generations of people
that war is not fun and games. War really sucks.

******
9 November 2002
4

Seems like the Spielberg who gave us Sugarland Express, Duel, Close
Encounters of the Third Kind, Raiders of the Lost Ark and E.T. has departed
our company and has been replaced by a clone who is intent on exploiting
human suffering in the name of art and the Oscar. Schindler's List was
perhaps the worst example of this trend... followed closely by Saving
Private Ryan. Both films were undoubtedly critical and commercial successes.
But somewhere, something called a soul may be MIA amidst all the hoopla.
Personally, I'd rather watch A Bridge Too Far (again), The Longest Day
(again), Apocalypse Now (again), Full Metal Jacket (again), The Deer Hunter
(again), and Paths of Glory (again) if I have to remember how horrible war
is.


******
30 September 2002
6

The subversive postmodernism couldn't be more obvious, no almost no one
notices, so corrupted are we by the malaise of pacificist impotence. The
whole concept of basing a film against the very flow of D-Day--the
"heroes"
are not there to win anything, they're there only to drag someone out.
While
thousands of Americans, Brits, Aussies, Canadians, Free French and others
are dying fighting Hitler's army and Luftwaffe, Spielberg is leading a
campaign of mighty forces to pull a lone American out of the combat zone
no
matter what the cost. To use the world's greatest invasion from the sea as
the mere backdrop to a story is, to me, perverse, and trivializes the
extraordinary efforts both of the men who fought during the Normandy
invasions and the earlier generation of filmmakers who sought to portray
that effort on a grand, much nobler canvas.

******
2 November 1999
3

First, the good things: this is a technically well made movie, with some
impressive shots (specially at the beginning). The acting is standard good.
And that's it.The plot is (at least) weak. And the chance to turn the whole thing into an
interesting irony about war, military, etc., planted when the protagonists
wander themselves about the reasons to save one life risking seven or eight,
is missed when we see this general "really" convinced about returning to
this one mother his last son alive, right after a scene of memorable
butchery.All the chances to make any serious statement and provoke debates about war
(or anything) are missed in front of this kind of caricaturesque characters
so common in the mainstream movies.

******
4 August 1999
10

I've read several comments and many people seem to agree that this movie
is
extremely patriotic.  I for one think that there is nothing patriotic
about
this movie, it simply shows a group of soldiers (that happen to be
american
), on a mission of looking for a single soldier whose brothers have been
killed in action.  I personally have no doubt in my mind that had this
movie
been based on a French, British or even Canadian squad, that not to many
people would have been calling it patriotic.  For some reason the site of
an
american flag at the beginning and at the end of the film seems to make
people think much less of the movie.
I am not american myself but I sure as hell am glad they got into the war
and all though there were many other countries in the war, this movie
happened to be about an american squad.
Well....having said all that I just want to say that I absolutely loved
this
movie!
I give it 10\10  

******
8 April 1999
6

This is a good action/war movie. That's it. Spielberg's directing is *too*
perfect. It reminds me of a Norman Rockwell painting. Sentiment rather than
emotion. 

******
3 April 1999
10

This was the most gripping and emotional films I've seen for a very long
time. I watched it on its very first screening and as a result there were
many ex-service men in the theatre. The total and utter silence during the
entire film except for the ending where quiet sobbing could be heard gives
testament to the powerful imagery concocted by Spielberg.Having watched the opening beach scene being filmed in Ireland, I had no
idea how dramatic it would appear on the screen. After the initial 20
minutes critics said how the film went downhill. I thought that it opened up
the characters and made you feel for them at the climax of the
film.All in all the most powerful war film ever.


******
21 February 1999
10

I took my father to see the movie. He had been in the Normandy on D-day. His
comment: 'It was like this!' I think there's nothing to
add. 

******
17 February 1999
10

This is a war movie that is so horrifying and moving that it can't be
anything else than the best.Everything is great about this movie, great actors, great battle sequences
and a good ending. It really shows the horrors of the wars, not like the old WWII war movie where the American
soldiers were immortal men that ran around showing the American flag.Here we have no heroes, just losers. Because the only enemy they are fighting
is the war itself.

******
1 December 1998
10

I'm amazed at how much stupid some people manage to say...Let's just get a few facts straight. On Omaha Beach, Sector Dog Green, there
were only americans. No brits, no canadians, no aussies, no russians, no
polish, and so on. I know they all lost men, but on Omaha, and in Saving
Private Ryan, there were just Americans. We have one story here, and it
would be wrong to bring in people who weren't there. So if you want to see a
movie about non-american soldiers in WWII, you should go and see something
else, and not complain about this movie.And what kind of person can find the american flag in the end of the movie
disgusting? 2500 men DID give their life on that beach in the fight for a
free world, and here we have some b******(s) complaining about the flag.
This movie is a tribute to the men who fought and died there. I say they
should move to Cuba or China or Iraq, where those twisted ideas still live.It's a great movie that everybody should see. It's rated 18 (min 18 years
old) here in Norway, which is a little high I think. It should be 15, so
that schools could go and see it, so that we don't get more morons who takes
freedom for granted. 

******
3 October 1998
10

Magnificient. Simply. And horrible, even if a movie, so close to the hell it
was on these days, is not close enough to what simple young men had to
suffer. A great feeling of despair and the question : why should they have
to get killed? at the end of the movie. Because, in a nightmare like this,
there is no good purpose to die for, even for their country, as some
generals, the ass in their office, would explain.The friendship those guys
shared was beyond brotherhood in this time. think about those who died.
those who suffered.but, more than anything, to those who survived and make us
live.
Soldiers who died deserve more than respect. They deserve a think sometimes,
a sincere tear on their graves, not for what they won but for what they
suffer, and they deserve a smile.

******
15 October 2009
10
I was born 9 years after WW2 finished and my father was a fireman in
the midlands area of England during the war. I do not know anybody who
was directly involved in any fighting so therefore the only way
somebody like me can be educated in what has taken place during any war
is with documentaries, books or a realistic portrayal of events in a
war film. I have read numerous reputable books and watched award
winning documentaries about WW2 and viewed a long list of films
featuring various parts of the war but nothing I had heard about this
film prepared me for the opening sequence. I doubt there is anyone on
this planet who would not be affected in one way or another by it. You
can get a dictionary out and list the adjectives but those 22 minutes
are infinitely more descriptive than centuries of books, unrealistic
films and fancy speeches. The whole film is close on three hours and is
and hopefully always will be an education for anybody watching. For me
this film should be regarded like a monument to all the people who have
gone to war irrespective of when or where it took place or why it
started in the first place. I suspect that the real thing was worse
than what is shown in the film but what is shown is graphic enough. We
have been killing each other for centuries but this like a select few
other films lays it all out realistically. I personally thank the
director and the entire cast and crew for the result of all their hard
work. For anybody out there who has not seen this film please watch it
and if possible stop reading this stuff I have written and lob the DVD
into the machine and make your own mind up.

******
13 July 2009
10
"Seen through the eyes of a squad of American soldiers, the story
begins with World War II's historic D-Day invasion, then moves beyond
the beach as the men embark on a dangerous special mission. Captain
John Miller (Tom Hanks) must take his men behind enemy lines to find
Private James Ryan (Matt Damon), whose three brothers have been killed
in combat. Faced with impossible odds, the men question their orders.
Why are eight men risking their lives to save just one? Surrounded by
the brutal realities of war, each man searches for his own answer - and
the strength to triumph over an uncertain future with honor, decency
and courage," according to the film's official synopsis.Once again, the Steven Spielberg and his crew of filmmakers climb to
the top of the mountain, and deliver a terrific motion picture. This
time, it's a heart-tugging pro-war (significantly, pro-World War II)
epic of astonishing power. Initially, "Saving Private Ryan" impresses
with its violent depiction of the Allies' D-Day landing, on the shores
of German-occupied France. With waves of blood, Mr. Spielberg shows the
human cost of defeating Fascism - by what TV anchorman Tom Brokaw
called "The Greatest Generation"; although, honestly, every generation
has its greatest, this is a fitting term.Captain Hanks and his squad - Edward Burns (as Reiben), Jeremy Davies
(as Upham), Vin Diesel (as Caparzo), Adam Goldberg (as Mellish), Barry
Pepper (as Jackson), Giovanni Ribisi (as Wade), and Tom Sizemore (as
Horvath) - are among the few to survive the invasion; and, are ordered
to save Mr. Damon's "Ryan" (for the reasons given above). During
quieter times, the personalities of the men emerge, with Spielberg and
writer Robert Rodat creatively painting human portraits. The silhouette
of the "war mother" dropping to her stoop as the military vehicle
approaches is one of the film's most simple, and effective, portraits;
it supports the film's prime directive.Hanks and the men are a more complicated literary group of characters
than they seem. Spielberg is obviously manipulating the story through
them; and, their strongly-directed, natural performances help make it
work. The film's main message is delivered by schoolteacher Hanks'
"Miller" in his final words to student Damon's "Ryan"; listen for them.
And, don't miss the secondary message, told by Mr. Davies' multilingual
"Upham" character; especially, watch how he pleads with Hanks to set a
German hostage free, and note the consequences of their action.It's tough to rank performances in an "ensemble acting" film (they're
all stellar), but, for literary greatness, you've got to add Mr.
Ribisi's doctor "Wade" to most memorable list. He tells an incredibly
introspective story about how he pretended to be sleeping when his
mother would peak into his room; note, eventually, Ribisi goes home to
"Mama". Also interesting is how Mr. Sizemore's "Horvath" serves as the
"voice" of Spielberg/Rodat, exalting and purifying Hanks' character. He
says both the film's title and tag-line ("Except this time, the mission
is a man").Spielberg's use of "flashback" is one of the best you'll ever see; and,
he definitively defines the term "gut-wrenching decision." ********** Saving Private Ryan (7/24/98) Steven Spielberg ~ Tom Hanks,
Jeremy Davies, Matt Damon, Giovanni Ribisi

******
31 May 2008
3
Spielberg is a highly competent director, who has a brilliant knack for
making the right film at the right time. This has resulted in a number
of his works being over-hyped to the point of the ridiculous.Saving Private Ryan is most certainly one of those films. Here we have
a thin and totally implausible story, shallow characters, lack of
historical authenticity... yet a reputation (confirmed on this board)
of being "the best war movie of all time."Let me refute that view on just a couple of points.First, we should be clear that, while the opening D-Day sequence is
certainly Spielberg at his best, it is by no means the best -- nor the
first -- big-screen depiction of the realities of war. In fact, it's
largely a rip-off of the equally good, and much earlier, beach-landing
sequence in Cornel Wilde's 1967 tour-de-force, Beach Red. Spielberg
modernizes the visuals very effectively, but does not improve on that
earlier work, and in fact, echoes many specific sequences within it.
(Wilde's film is also far more powerful in the rest of its story.)Second, aside from Private Ryan's many other weaknesses, I find most
glaring it's unintentional irony. What country in WW II - other than
the USA - could in its wildest dreams enjoy the luxury of bringing back
one son merely because his siblings had died??? I can only imagine the
jeers that must greet this idea when the film is shown in, say, Russia
-- where tens of millions died, with no such convenient reprieves and
nowhere to flee in any case. Or in England, where whole families had no
choice but to soldier their way through the Blitz. The fact is, the
soldiers of the USA were relatively unique in having a safe haven to
return *to.* Saving Private Ryan not only manages to forget that fact,
it somehow tries to make American troops seem the more heroic for it!I say the irony is unintentional... In fact, I long wondered if
Spielberg had *meant* the story-line of Private Ryan ironically. But a
recent interview on TCM convinces me that he did not. That's a shame.
Done deliberately, this could have been a deliciously vitriolic
statement on how the powers-that-be manipulate fighting men in the
field. Instead, it's more like a slap in the face to the very men it
attempts to honor. I have no idea how prevalent the "Private Ryan"
reprieve really was; but presenting it without context does a
disservice to the entire force.On the positive side, there's no denying the production is
well-mounted. I give the film 3 stars, chiefly for the technical
brilliance of the opening sequence - and for the presence of the
always-watchable Tom Hanks.

******
11 February 2007
10
I first watched this movie when I was a young'un. It had an impact on
me, more than I could have imagined. At that time (I was still a kid
then) I wanted to join the Army, because I assumed that I could simply
pull out a machine-gun and blast everyone to oblivion. This movie made
me see the light. Now that I'm older, and can understand films better,
I can fully appreciate the beauty of this film. It's gritty without
being gruesome, it's brutally honest without overwhelming you, it's
funny while it focuses on the drama; it's just plain brilliant. It
deserved every Oscar it got, and more in my opinion. The cinematography
alone is to die for.All in all, 11/10.

******
27 September 2006
10
This is one of my favorite films of all time. I can watch it over and
over again. It also has one of my favorite actors of all time, Tom
Hanks. This movie should have been Tom Hanks 5th Oscar but for some
reason the 'academy' has some bias against him.Many people have said that the start of this movie is the most intense,
realistic capture of the invasion of Normandy beach. In addition the
shooting of the first part of the movie puts you inside the action
along with stunning 5 channel sound that places bullets, bombs and
screams all around you.Does not stop there there is plenty of action in this movie. It shows
many sides of humanity during the war and you even see the impact of
all sides US forces, German forces and by standing citizens.This movie to me was the best film of 1998. Unfortunately 1998 was one
of the most competitive Oscar runs in history. Titanic, Shakespeare in
love, Elizabeth and Life is beautiful all competed that year. And as
always the Lovey-dovey movies mostly win the Oscar races.Still this movie was so great that it spawned a HBO miniseries that was
equally great "Band of Brothers".This is my favorite movie from Spielberg.

******
24 April 2006
9
Spielberg mines a sullied gem with this bloody classic. A family film,
I say, a demonstration of brotherhood and integrity. For me the
decision to seek Private Ryan based on the mother's loss simultaneously
undermines and glorifies the honour of war. And it is in this
background that Hanks delivers a compelling performance worthy of many
rewatches.The violence in this film is stark. So many examples you can think of -
from the escaped German prisoner's revenge, to the sockbomb victim -
show the arbitrary nature of violence. But the quieter moments between
are tender and contemplative - Fubar anyone? Not a realist film, like
Platoon or Full Metal Jacket, but art to provoke, like Jar Head and
Apocalypse Now.

******
18 April 2006
9
The first 20 minutes of this film is a brutal glimpse into the violence
and complete uselessness of war. We see people getting gunned down,
limbs getting blown off, people blown in half, guts everywhere, it is
not a pretty sight. It's this, and many other things, that make this
one of the greatest war films I've ever seen.Captain John H. Miller (Tom Hanks) and his men are sent on a mission to
recover Private James Ryan (Matt Damon). Along the way many hardships
are faced and overcome between these men.That is pretty much the plot, but the movie is more than plot. It is a
journey through World War II's harshness and a journey with these men.
We come to care for these men. They aren't given huge amounts of
development, but they don't need it. The actors really make us care for
these people, as does Steven Spielberg's skillful directing. This is
definitely one of his best movies.It is also a lot different. If any of his movies contain violence,
there is very little of it. This, however, contains some of the most
graphic violence I've ever seen. It truly shows the violence, dirtyness
and uselessness of war. It doesn't offer anything but pain and misery.
John William's score also creates a very suitable mood.The only reasons I have for deducting the half a star is because of the
very start and the very end. The American flag flapping in the distance
was a little too sentimental for me and I found it unnecessary.4½/5.

******
27 November 2005
2
Spielberg has claimed in interviews that one of his purposes in making
Saving Private Ryan was to specifically honor the soldiers who fought
that war; a noble sentiment. But being a film buff, you'd think
Spielberg would be familiar with the constant stream of films from the
40's through the 50's into the 60's and beyond including TV shows that
did just that. It makes me wonder if he had another purpose in making
Saving Private Ryan.He does. In the excellent series of interview DVD's put out by the
American Film Institute titled The Directors, in the episode devoted to
Spielberg he claims that he wanted to make Saving Private Ryan with a
documentary style eschewing the Chapman Cranes and Steadicam approach
to big budget film-making. He wanted the film to look exactly like a
war photographer would have shot it had he been at Omaha Beach.Clearly, one look at the opening beach sequence shows he succeeded in
that desire. But if Chapman cranes and Steadicams are not realistic, is
artificially slowing down the film OK? How about de-saturating the
color out of the film to make it almost seem black and white? What
about heavily manipulating the soundtrack? Does war really exist in
Dolby 5.1 Sound? I mean, what are we REALLY watching here? What has
Spielberg done with Saving Private Ryan other than simply add an
element of "Chainsaw Massacre Movie" gore to the war film, a genre that
is surprisingly non-gory. But the thing that annoys me most about
Saving Private Ryan is something that is no real fault of the film.
It's the way so many people fatuously praise the film as being
"realistic". A bunch of different critics even stated that this film
"avoids all the clichés" usually associated with WWII films.Avoids clichés? Have any of you seen it? Well, lets just start with the
squad who goes after Private Ryan in the film, do we have the tough,
but decent guy from the Midwest? Check, Tom Hanks! Do we have a vaguely
ethnic type? Check, Vin Diesel as Caparzo. How about the young coward
who later on shows courage? Check with Jeremy Davies character. What
about the wise guy from New York? Check with Ed Burns. Did we forget
the country boy sharpshooter? No, we have Barry Pepper as a cross
kissing sniper. You may just as well have cast Anthony Quinn, Wally
Cassel, William Bendix, Lloyd Nolan and Richard Jaeckel. Certainly,
John Wayne would have been perfect for the Tom Hanks role.Staying with realism, does Spielberg even get the facts of Omaha Beach
right? The real plan was for the men to secure the beach and then have
bulldozers knock down the sea wall. Tanks would then blast through
German fortifications and then the men would follow the tanks. What
really happened was that the water and tides were unexpectedly strong
and the men were washed completely off course. That's why they landed
directly in front of German machine gun nests; they certainly weren't
heading there on purpose. After suffering terrible human losses and
with the water being too deep for the tanks, (only 2 of the 29 tanks
ever made it), the surviving men waited at the sea wall for five or six
hours until German fire had died down and then they climbed up the
sides of the bluffs, double-backed and attacked the Germans from
behind, eventually over running them. That's what really happened. I
found that out by simply looking this battle up in the Encyclopedia
Britannica. Apparently, that is something no one at Paramount Pictures
did because that is not what happens in the "realistic" Saving Private
Ryan.Spielberg presents the Omaha Beach slaughter as if this is what
happened all over on D-Day. Again, not true, in fact, troop casualties
were much less than expected. Yes, more than 2000 soldiers died at
Omaha Beach, which saw the fiercest fighting and was a terrible
slaughter, but a fifteen miles down the coastline at Utah Beach, they
suffered less than 200 casualties and even less to the north at Juno
and Gold beaches. I'm not trying to be disingenuous here. I know Saving
Private Ryan was about this specific group going into this particular
battle, but overall, what was presented in Saving Private Ryan is not
what most soldiers faced that day.But what is really unforgivable to me, if you watch Saving Private
Ryan, is you will get no sense that anybody other than Americans were
involved in this action. Remember, it was called The Allied Invasion,
not The American Invasion, which might explain why Saving Private Ryan
is hailed as being accurate over here, but in other countries, notably
Britain and Canada, who also lost soldiers that day, they find this
film laughable.Nobody minds that Spielberg fudged things historical in order to make a
dramatic movie. But pretending you didn't is wrong. And yes, just
because Paramount Pictures says this is the way it happened, don't make
it so. Saving Private Ryan is clearly a well-intentioned film and was
made with skill and care. But, ultimately it is nothing more than a
feel good picture, full of flag waving banalities and video game style
violence. It is World War II: The Ride. Steven Spielberg has made a
gripping and entertaining film with Saving Private Ryan. But that's
all. Let's save our Medals of Honor for those who show bravery in an
actual war.

******
12 November 2005
2
I'm no expert on the Normandy landings, but I know enough to know that
the opening scenes of the movie, so highly lauded as realism, were pure
hokum. Though there may have been some landing craft whose occupants
were slaughtered as the doors opened, and whose few survivors were then
further decimated on the beach, less than 10% of those who landed on
Omaha Beach were injured or killed. So what was the point of showing
the fountains of blood? We know war is hell. Showing it realistically
is gruesome enough, without stretching the truth.The movie went downhill from there. The next three hours were spent
tediously watching a single squad of a men walking all around 400
square miles of France asking whether anyone has seen Private Ryan. How
ridiculously absurd. Again I must ask, what was the point? It stretched
credulity beyond the limit.I think the biggest reason I was so disappointed in this movie is that
it was so highly acclaimed by critics when it was released. I can't
imagine why.

******
7 October 2005
10
I remember when I first went to see this movie. I was 14 and when I was
going to turn 17 I was determined to join the army - u know, spend the
summer with friends, learn new things, meet new people, and most
importantly be a soldier for my country.All that changed in the first 5 minutes of this movie. I have never had
a movie impact me so much. To all of you who are so full of yourselves
that the only things you can say are: "So typical of American movies,
always making movies about Americans" or "Typical Spielberg, displaying
the allies as the good guys and portraying the Germans as the bad
guys." You people make me sick. Forget about your prejudice towards
America, just watch the movie and understand the message about war that
its trying to bring out! And for those of you who can honestly sit
there and feel sorry for the portrayal of the Nazis, you are the reason
I wanted to join the army in the first place, to put people like you in
your place.Anyways, terrific movie, definitely set the new standard for war
movies. Still one of my top 5 movies.

******
18 August 2005
10
This movie is the greatest war movie ever! Tom Hanks was a perfect
captain and Matt Damon was such a great Private Ryan. The beach scene
was such a great scene, although it was pretty intense the way that
Steven Speilburg directed that scene was truly fantastic. Another scene
that was truly touching was when they had to tell the mother that her
three sons were dead and they didn't know where her forth son was. It
made me feel like crying and I'm sure that all the other fans out there
felt the same way.The ending is very dramatic, but Steven didn't go overboard. When the
old James Ryan almost starts to cry I felt the same way. When Tom Hanks
died that was the ultimate surprise or scene in the movie. It was
awesomely brilliant, but very sad. That's my basic overview and opinion
on "Saving Private Ryan." -Ashley

******
26 April 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan will probably be remembered as a true classic, the
best war movie ever made that presented World War II as good as
possible... For those who haven't seen the movie - Run, Run and don't
look back, go rent it, and enjoy every minute of it. The movie begins with the well known American invasion to Europe in
operation Overlord at the problematic Omaha Beach. Never in filming
industry had there been a better war scene, so true, so real, making
you actually feel like you are a soldier taking part in the invasion...
Spielberg didn't censor what the war was probably really like by
showing less blood, less dead and less wounded. In fact, this scene,
showing zero regards to Human life isn't just to make the viewers feel
excited, its true purpose will be understood only later, after watching
the film...Following the invasion, Cpt Miller (Tom Hanks) gets another mission -
"straight from the top" - Rescuing a private parachuted deep in enemy
territory after 3 of his brothers lost their lives in the war. Eight
men, rescuing one. After the bloodsheded scene in Omaha, this mission looks rather stupid,
one life? is it really worth endangering the lives of eight? Omaha
beach showed how hundreds die like little defenseless mosquitoes... How
is one life that important? Without a doubt, Spielberg didn't randomly
choose a mission to base a movie about. This movie isn't just an action
film... It has an hidden message, It shows that on the side of war,
with so much dead, zero regards for human life we are all still human-
those who die at war aren't just soldiers, they're men, with lives,
desires, needs - they have names, brothers, sisters - and each and
every one of them counts... Omaha is war, it presented it quiet good
but the rest of the movie - well, thats humanity... Suddenly, one life
does count, and endangering the lives of eight looks rather right. Don't get me wrong, the movie is all action. true hardcore action...
The rest of the movie, following the invasion, escorts the small squad
led by Cpt. Miller as they search for one soldier, Private James Ryan,
in occupied France... Endless battle-scenes, action, suspense - actual
war... I will stop here without spoiling any part of the film - This movie
cant be described in words... Abseloutly amazing... best movie i have
ever seen - A MUST SEE! although i doubt any true movie-fan would skip
watching this movie...

******
26 February 2005
10
Breathtaking. Spectacular. Incredible. Whatever words used to describe
this film do no justice to what Spielberg so masterfully created. This
movie is the only movie to have left me in awe, in shock, in sadness.
On all levels this film was perfect. I do not know how historically
accurate it may have been, but I know one thing. This is one of the
most memorable films ever made, and it should be recognized as the best
war movie to date. I am a proud Canadian citizen, but this film gave me
a greater respect for what the Americans were trying to do in Europe. I
used to protest the fact that they joined the war late, however this
film has shown me that they suffered as great a loss as all the
countries involved in that war.The film truly was an epic, an epic that will leave me to think for
some time.

******
6 December 2004
10
Thank you for taking the time to read this... Spoilers may be with-in.I thought this movie was very, very good. One of the reasons this movie
is so incredible is that it has the perfect combination of drama,
action, graphic violence, and (my favorite) no sex. The omaha beach
seen was so amazing and well shoot i almost cried because i felt like i
was there and seeing my friends guts spill onto the sand.I thought it was cool that they used the knife and a mirror to see what
was going on. those are just some of the reasons why this movie kicks
serious ass. Negitave side: It was too long and some scenes where a little
pointless. Like how they got the wrong ryan. But it was still very
funny.Favorite scene: Was the scene where the sniper shot the other sniper
through the scope and his brains blew out the other side (genius)...Cinematography review: Helped the movie seem much more realistic and
helped you feel like you where there. in other words the cinematography
Kick major Ass you un-educated morons Who are sick and wrong.the 2
words kick and ass should penitrate your thick skulls.Over all an amazing 4 over 4 or ten over ten.

******
16 March 2004
10

I'm starting to think that everything that Speilberg touches turns to gold.
This is probably considered one of the greatest movies of all time and it is
directed by Speilberg. The movie is incredable. The beginning was
horrifying. I couldn't believe how accurate it was and painful it was to
watch. When I studied WW2 in high school, I thought no one could ever
re-create the Beach of Normady. But Speilberg did. I felt like I was there
with the soldiers. I felt their fear, pride, and love for their country. I
couldn't believe how much dedication our armies put into fighting and
winning the war. And whenever I go to visit Washington D.C., I have more
American pride then ever. I am more than proud to give this movie
a10/10

******
16 January 2004
5
Plenty of war drama and blockbuster action to start the movie, then a
long boring few hours to end it. Very unrealistic overall. Hardly a
great war movie. If we are to view the title of the movie as the plot
of the movie, then we have been fooled greatly.If it is really saving Private Ryan, then why no scenes of Private Ryan
until the movie is almost over? Well, if there had been, then they
couldn't have played that little prank on the viewers of the first
Private Ryan saved being the wrong one (Matt Damon).If you are going to watch this movie, have plenty of coffee, because
after the first half you will fall asleep quick. This is just another
stage for Tom Hanks, a mediocre actor that the studios keep trying to
push down our throats (except for Forrest Gump, a role he was well
equipped for). I give it 5 of 10 stars, because of a few good scenes.

******
25 August 2001
2

The movie starts out with a recreation of the Normandy landings.  Plenty of
gore, some humor which may have been untintentional.  The US army platoon
shows they know how to stay alive, use cover, not take foolish chances,
etc.
The whole landing was better shown in "The Longest Day" without the gore
but this first sequence was effective. Next the platoon is asked to find 1
particular solider. At this point the boys seem to leave all their brains
behind. They decide to fight to the death over some meaningless bridge,
commit one act of  stupidity after another. This would make some sort of
sense if they were green troops but they spent the whole first half hour
showing how good they were at fighting. Everyone  I know thought the whole
last section of the movie, irritating, stupid, or worse. How it got such a
high rating is beyond me.  After you sit through it once you will never
want
to see it again.

******
5 July 1999
1

the most intensely boring, long-winded uninspiring 'movie' i have ever
seen.
spielberg can brilliantly bring a childhood fantasy to life but he has a
lot
to learn about making a deep and inspiring movie. schindler's list must
have
been a one off.
the gore was pure hollywood, and once it was over the movie began a
gruelling downward spiral involving the rest of the poor suffering
audience.the acting of giovanni ribisi was the only consolation (soothed but did not
heal) and tom hank's peformance was tolerably mediocre.all in all, a terrible waste of time. sure the people of our generation
need
a much needed history lesson in the bravery of our ancestors, sure we need
to see a full-on assault of the gore to fully comprehend the horror of war
but as an audience we also need a film with a sense of direction than
endless gunfire combined with lacklustre dialogue. please do not insult ourintelligence, we are not so stupid that we cannot perceive the central
message by sitting for 2.5 hrs watching this tripe. a subtler approach
would
have been much more effective, or (since apparently we need to witness
first
hand the shocking violence for the full impact)a movie with the gore but
toned down, compressed and concentrated -not splattered whereever it 'felt'
appropriate.
giving spielberg the oscar for this show/exhibition was like giving the
nobel peace prize to monica lewinsky.
i could definitely see the agony of war, but the agony of watching this
filthy excuse of a film was a greater tax on my forebearance.


******
19 June 1999
10

The first time I saw this movie was in the cinema. The surround sound at
the
landing on the normandy made me ducking scared in my seat. I was panicked
and could feel the soldiers' fear.
I saw it today for the second time on my vcr, I was alone. But this time
all
my tears broke loose. I now realized the lack of sense in all this
killing,
all this waste of life! These hundreds of young men dying on the shores of
France. A stunning and precious experience.
In my eyes this is the best antiwarfilm ever made. No palliation, no
exaggeration.

******
24 April 2006
10
Read dedjim's comments on this movie. His are the best by far. I'm sad
to see that this sight is mainly a place where people come to express
their thinly veiled political diatribes in the guise of a movie review.This was a great movie about sacrifice, courage, loss, violence,
revenge, folly, and most of all the strength of character it took (and
takes) to defeat evil. The young people of that time defeated fascism
(and later communism). Their children and grandchildren would not have
their character forged in a worldwide depression dovetailed with a
worldwide war. This reality explains much about the differences between
the generations. Theirs was one of stoicism. The ones that followed
were less mature, and generally lacking in accurate historical
perspective - I say this as a retort to those who post on here mainly
invoking their political bents.This movie is a more accurate "experience" of WW2 than most movies made
on the subject. My next door neighbor for 15 years was one of the most
gentle and humor-filled men I have ever known. He never once mentioned
to me that he was a decorated WW2 bomber pilot. But he was. He came
from a humble background; was wounded in the war; lost many friends in
the war; and met his future wife (Army nurse) during the war. Then he
returned from the war and instead of letting his experiences ruin him
and the country, he and his compatriots helped rebuild a nation and a
world. I came to know him better after his death by talking to his
family about the experiences he went thru during the turning point in
history known as WW2.This movie is a masterpiece made by one of the masters in Hollywood.

******
2 March 2006
10
Overall this movie was well made. I am not going to sit here and act
like I know what happened over there, because I don't. This movie shows
what the war was like through the eyes of the soldiers who fought in
it. It is a vivid and graphic portrayal of war during World War 2. The
movie is intense, but is important to watch. The cast does a great job.
They put this feeling on you that is hard to describe. In my opinion
this is one Spielberg's best films. He does a great job of showing the
intensity of battle between men, the struggle for survival. He also
does a great job of adding some comic relief to make the film seem a
little lighter. This is one of my favorite movies because of the
action, plot, and acting. At the end of this film you might feel sad,
but not disturbed. This film made me feel very patriotic and proud of
the country I live in. It also makes me appreciate all the men who went
through so much in order to maintain world peace. If you have a strong
stomach and are a big fan of war movies, I highly recommend this
masterpiece.

******
27 July 2001
3

The first 30 minutes are great but after that the movie makes little sense.
Aside from the totally ridiculous plot, the actions of the characters is
pure hollywood fiction. The way they walk around nonchalantly, the bars on
Hank's helmet (why not a bull's-eye), and the ridiculous notion of a sniper
going anywhere near a bell tower are the things that bothered me the most.
Why would they face overwhelming odds to save a bridge that the engineers
could rebuild in a day? Denying it to the fleeing Germans would have been
the priority. Faced with the odds that they were up against even a corporal
would have had the military sense to blow the bridge before the Germans
arrived and have everyone safely on the other side. Hey Spielberg, What's
with the neo-nazi skinhead German soldiers? I have never seen a photograph
of a WWII German soldier with a haircut remotely resembling this. I realize
that actual soldiers were used as extras but you have to assume actors were
given the speaking/close-up roles. Expected much more from all of the
hype 
sorely disappointed by all the Hollywood glam.

******
2 February 2001
1

If realism
is no important point for you in WW2 movies,
if you like cliches
of other nations and like to support directors, who stress them in their
own
way,
if you never saw "Full Metal Jacket" or first trials of your fathers shots
of his V8Camcorder at a beach,
if you believe
that Tom H. could present a character who is introduced like
Eastwood,
and finally think that if someone has a big name in Hollywood he is always
great what ever he does,-then you will love this movie

******
2 July 2000
4

Blood, dirt, dying soldiers and others so scared, that they are unable to
move. A dirty little war is going on, and a great film to condemn war  well
for the first half of the movie.
But what happens then?
Ryan turns out to be Mr. All American Hero. He doesn't waste a thought for
his three fallen brothers, he doesn't give a damn about his grieve-stricken
mother (she will understand  will she?), but insists on defending that
little bridge
After Schindler's list and Amistad, Ryan's not Spielberg's best film. In
fact, the second half makes private Ryan to any warfilm, the Pentagon or any
other war-ministry in the world would be proud of. Just a little
war-adventure under the checkered flag. What a pitty

******
20 October 2007
3
I successfully avoided this until seeing Band of Brothers, which raised
my previously low interest in Spielberg productions; having seen one
too many of his mawkish, sentimental pieces of malarkey. Instead, it
turns out it was wise to skip this for almost a decade.A troop that has just landed at Normandy is diverted to move 100m into
France and find a single private whose value has just gone up. And
sure... they walk the whole way (never even hitching a ride) They
encounter provisioned troops every fifteen minutes along the way (any
of which would have been more efficiently tasked with the mission.) and
they find Ryan not alone & lost behind enemy-lines (maintaining radio
silence, or in imminent danger); but amidst another platoon (also
provisioned) and ready to take on a mission against 4 German tanks and
about 80 Germans. Really... what a bunch of schlock!Why do people make up stories to tell about WW2 to show their respect
for those who fought it? Make up characters? Invent a phony mission
that never occurred? What? ...the hundreds of thousands of personal
stories that exist didn't have enough dramatic range? This is a brazen
slap in the face to all who fought. S.P.R. is just so much retrograde 1950's storytelling, and Spielberg
doesn't have it in him to recognize cinematic cheese when he smells it.
There's so much time for soldiers pouring out their hearts & having
profound discussions that it's a wonder they even had time for a war.
Spielberg is only a shade subtler than flashing subtitles every now and
then that say, "CRY NOW!" and "WAVE THE FLAG!" I'm as susceptible as
anyone to patriotism, but come on. The 3 stars I gave it are for the
battle sequences. Every time the action slows & Spielberg needs to come
up with something dramatic he delivers a pile of corn... and earns a
barrel of lemons. Structurally this feels like a grab-bag of scenes
made for an even longer movie. They find private Ryan almost
effortlessly.And what's with the all-star cast, Hanks, Giamatti, Diesel, Damon,
Danson, Hines, Ribisi... I can't imagine any of these guys are WW2
figures because they're all so overexposed in the current timeframe.I didn't need this giant pile of malarkey and all it's cheap sentiment
to make me feel a debt to the Allies in WW2. I have reality to do that.

******
5 February 2006
10
Saving Private Ryan has to be one of the greatest films of all time and
is personally my favorite movie ever. Steven Spielberg has captured war
as it really is. All detail is considered to make this movie one of the
most, if not the most accurate war film ever created. The actors
performances are brilliant especially that of Tom Hanks. This movie
really focuses on each of the characters and the mind of a soldier in
which many other war movies fail to capture. After watching this film I
have now gained a greater knowledge of what war really consists of and
therefore gained a greater respect for those veterans who served during
D-Day especially and in general WWII. I would very much recommend it to
anyone. One of Spielbergs best.

******
28 January 2006
10
No movie will ever stand up to the ranks over Saving Private Ryan. Just
wow. Thats really all I can say. Flawless special affects, definitely
look real. No other war movie goes into this much detail to a battle
scene. I can feel for the souls of those lost, and sorrow for that poor
guy with intestines hanging out screaming, ''Momma!'' You think thats
so typical, but what would you scream when you were in his position?
''Crayola Crayons! Ahhhhhh!'' But seriously I sat on my couch staring
at the screen 5 minutes after the credits were over. Shocked that the
main character was killed. But I liked it. Mostly everyone died trying
to save PVT. Ryan except wimpy clumsy Umpham (sp?) and Reiben which was
a little surprising but made sense. The only flaw is that if you were a
Captain in the US Army you would NOT blindfold the enemy and have him
walk to somebody finds him. 1) He could slip the blindfold off and run
in the direction of a German platoon. 2) He may come back to haunt you.And if you just go out there and buy the movie (worth every penny,
simply a classic!) and watch it you'll know what I mean. Thats the only
flaw I know of, but it does'nt hurt the way I feel about the movie. I
just get this vibe that everything that happened in the movie just
feels right, and is perfect the way it unfolded. Saving Private Ryan
will remain in my heart forever. As well as millions of other. This is
Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks at their best. (and everyone else who
had to do with the slightest bit of this movie.

******
6 September 2005
10
This was one of the first war movies that i've seen, and it has to be
one of the best. Steven Spielberg has directed what has to be a
masterpiece. The movie is accurate,although there are petty details
that could have made this film better than it already is. From the
beginning of the film, Spielberg gives us a sense of the dramatic
landings on Omaha beach, a view of the whole allied advance on
Normandy, once the Axis trenches and bunkers have been taken. The way
Spielberg captivates each character within one another, and yet be
different from one another is superb. I think Steve Spielberg has
captivated the idea of brotherhood and comradeship, which in turn has
what i think led him to the making of the HBO mini-series, Band of
Brothers. The cinematography has to be credited, and the background
music is fitting for such a film, thats why i gave it 10.

******
30 March 2005
10
****Several spoilers ahead**** This is, without a doubt, the most
historically accurate view of world war II. Starting with the d-day
invasion, I could already tell this was going to be an epic movie, and
it did not disappoint. The tag line says it all; the mission is a man.
But it's not just any man: It's Private Ryan (Matt Damon) whose three
brothers have been killed in combat. Not only that, but his mother is
getting all three telegrams the same day. And on top of it all, Private
Ryan is behind enemy lines. So, the chief of the U.S. Army sends
Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and his troops to rescue him. When they
finally find Private Ryan, 2 of Miller's men have already died, and
Private Ryan does not want to leave his position at a bridge. So what
do they do? Blow up the bridge. But it does not have a happy ending as
Captain Miller ends up dying in the dramatic climactic shootout. At the
end, it shows a much older Private Ryan, looking at the grave of the
captain, the man who saved his life. Now for the accurate part: the
beginning of the movie. There was a lot of controversy about the level
of violence what with the major internal organs shown out of the
bodies, but this is what war is. Beyond controversial and not pretty.
Possibly the greatest war movie ever made.

******
8 June 2004
1

call me cynical, or perhaps heartless, but on second viewing of this
overrated film I saw 
straight through it. When I first saw it I was 13 years old. I was angry and
angst ridden, and 
utterly impressionable. The film affected me. It made me rant for weeks
about what evil 
"ba*****s" the French must have been during the war, and resent my French
and German 
lessons. I didn't question it because before then I hadn't even seen a movie
that reached the 
standards of The Shawshank Redemption, not that this is a bad film, on the
contrary, it is 
beautiful and fantastic, but the point remains that I was decidedly naive
when I saw it. Fortunately, I have seen the light. I am now a film studies student and I
have fallen in love 
with movies that make this one look, well, empty. It's nothing, really, to
be honest, that 
Stanley Kubrick didn't do better in Full Metal Jacket. Ok, I admit that the
first scene is well 
choreographed, well photographed, well conceived and genuinely moving.
However, it seems 
to me that there might have been better ways to go about it, really. Someone
else would have 
made a hugely better job of this. And well done Spielburg for Jurassic Park
but I can never 
forgive him for inventing the Blockbuster movie with Jaws, paving the way
for big family-fun 
action-adventure-explosion-fests. Grrrrrrrrrr. The film was sickeningly sentimental to the point of being really "corny",
in every American 
sense of the world. This is accelerated by the string score, which, like in
most big films that 
want to pull the heart strings, it tells you, TELLS YOU(!), exactly when you
should be feeling 
sad. EUGH! And what exactly is with the American flag filling the screen
whilst blowing in the 
breeze and fading to the D-Day landings? This is such a blatant and
screaming use of 
patriotic symbolism, it doesn't make me proud, it doesn't make me relate to
the story, it 
doesn't do anything but make me puke. Seriously. Don't eat me. I love you really. 

******
10 March 2004
2

[Spoilers follow] The basic techniques of this film are sadistic gore and
portentous heroic cliche. It is a revolting mixture. Dozens of times, we see
the faces of people realizing they are about to die and then brutally
slaughtered. As often as possible, cruelly and whilst attempting to
surrender. All except the hero, who dies like a hero in an opera. And then
the American flag flutters over the screen and the dewy-eyed veteran
remembers.Perhaps this is 'realism'. but so what. we choose what we want to watch and
what should be put in movies. And regarding the last battle sequence, do
armoured divisions really attack one at a time? Perhaps this is why the
Germans lost.

******
19 December 2001
10

I have to agree, this is really good historical fiction, one note
however...
there were guys on the beach that had what looked like a Yen-yang on their
shoulder and on the back of the helmet, which would be the 29th Infantry
Division (a National Guard Unit), instead of either a diamond with a #2
(2nd
Rangers, which we saw) or a #5 (which we didn't see).  As far as I can
find,
only the 2nd and 5th Rangers were in the first wave of the assault, led by
then LTC James Earl Rudder, and thus there should have been no 29th Inf,
at
least not in the first wave.  A couple of really good books on the subject
is "Rudder's Rangers : The True Story of the 2nd Ranger Battalion D-Day
Combat Action" and "The Liberation of Pointe Du Hoc : The 2nd Rangers at
Normandy, June 6-8, 1944"  One thing that would probably suprise most
people
is that LTC Rudder came onshore with his men, and that his was one of the
first transports to hit the beach, and that he lived through it.  Of
course,
he was a Texas Aggie, that alone could be why his forces were able to
succeed.  Read the books, you'll never watch SPR the same way
again.

******
14 March 2006
10
when i first saw this saving private ryan, it inspired me so much that
i actually wanted to go back in time and invade omaha beach. my point
is is that this is without question the best war film ever created. it
is also Steven Spielberg's finest work of cinema he has ever created in
his career. he does a great job in honoring the veterans of the war.
and they deserve it because without them, we wouldn't be here right
now. we would have Hitler jr. telling us to turn off the computer and
go work and be a slave and whatnot. and its not just that, but the
suspense when you can hear the faint sound of the tanks coming to
ramelle, and private jackson popping a hot one through the snipers
scope (my favorite part). the sorrow and grief you feel when wade
slowly stops living. and the feel and sense of pride when the p-51s
bust the nazi tanks open and the Germans retreating. upham finally
gathers the balls to pull the trigger. this is a movie that i can watch
over and over again and never get bored of it. i will never forget
about this movie in my life. and if you haven't seen it yet, go see it
because it will have a great impact to you no matter who you are.

******
5 May 2005
10
This movie is one of the best war movies I have ever seen. This movie
is hard to look at if you can't stand gory scenes. Tom Hanks plays his
role extremely well in this movie. Along with other actors in here such
as Matt Damon and Vin Diesel. Spielberg really got the costumes down
pretty good. As well as the graphic explosions of the tanks. This is an
adventure of Capt. Miller and his crew to save this one pvt., Pvt.
Ryan. This movie was made on the 60th Anniverrsery of the invasion of
Normandy. So this is the movie to see if you need to see a good WW II
movie. Another movie that might be enjoyed if you liked this movie is
Schindler's List.

******
11 April 2005
10
This movie will rank in the top 100 movies of all time for years and
years to come. Why? Because it helps shows war with real decency. No
one would want to watch a movie with only killing, blood and gore. No
one really does. This movie manages to let us, the viewers, watch
virtually a firsthand take of what veterans went through.The acting was phenomenal. Tom Hanks was at his best yet, with superb
realism which he displayed. Good job to others: Tom Sizemore, Edward
Burn, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, and of course Vin Diessel.The Director: Steven Spielberg directed the best movie he ever made.
This movie was unbelievably realistic. I know that throughout this
movie, I did not and could not possibly think about anything that might
take me away from the movie. In fact, the whole time I imagined that
this was not a movie, that it really occurred.The music director: John Williams made one of the best of Alltime. The
beautiful piece: Hymn to the Fallen Soldiers raises the goosebumps from
your arms. Extremely good job with that. Revisiting Normandy and others
also were profoundly beautiful. The sound was amazing. The sound of the
tanks rolling, warfare, bullets under water, etc. really super sized
this movie. The sound tanks in this movie got me scared.This movie clearly should have won best movie, and best actor.I loved it and watch it once every month, which I simply can not elude.

******
13 November 2001
10

I absolutly love this movie. Sure its a little gory, but it's a very well
played war movie. It mixes a little humour in with a very dramatic and
tragic story. It really captivates me every time I watch it. I's recommend
this to anyone who likes a good story and can handle some blood.


******
22 March 2006
10
Wow I loved this movie. My favorite part was when they stormed the
beach on D-Day. Oh also when they hid out in the church that was good
and when it was raining and the dude sniped the guy through the scope.
Great sound effects and realistic warfare. I felt like I was right
there seeing all of it before my very eyes. I also loved the final
battle when they needed to protect the bridge. And then they found the
German soldier they didn't kill and in the end, they shot him with a
pistol. Ahhhh...what a great movie. I recommend this to all people who
love to watch an exciting movie.It shows that no man if left behind if
they still have the will to live.

******
1 July 2003
1

I have seen many WWII movies and this is NOT one of the greatest. The
opening 20 
minutes are absolutely disgustingly brutal but the rest of the movie is a
hackneyed 
rehash of so many better movie plots. And ultimately we never know whether
all the 
effort to save Private Ryan was worthwhile. Was he inspired by his rescuers
to be as 
extraordinary as those who died for him? Did he become a
teacher?

******
4 March 2002
1

With all the critical acclaim this got, I expected it to be at least okay.
Maybe it was all historically accurate, but I didn't go for a history
lesson, I went to be entertained, which I wasn't.  It was like "Okay,
let's
walk around.  We still haven't found the guy.  Now let's shoot and blow up
some stuff.  And...let's walk some more after that."  Summation: Monotony
broken occasionally with some "Real 'purty exploshurns."

******
10 December 2005
6
Yes, "Saving Private Ryan" has very graphic action scenes which are
more realistic than the average war movie, but there are other aspects
in which it fails in being authentic: the attitudes, behaviors and
values of the people in the time period which the movie depicts. In
particular, some of the major and minor characters of "S.P.R." exhibit
very self-absorbed characteristics which would have been very uncommon
among regular troops during World War II. Sure, people have some of the
same feelings and other characteristics throughout history, and
soldiers frequently grumble and are cynical, but the people shown in
this movie tend to reflect much more what 1990's guys were like rather
than 1940's men. For a war movie which does a better job of showing
1940's troops, try "Battleground."Like many others here, I like war movies to be authentic in depicting
things like uniforms, equipment and tactics, and "S.P.R." is successful
in some of this, but to me it is more important for a movie to be
accurate in depicting character, attitude and the actual events that
occurred, and in this "S.P.R" is very lacking. It does a better job of
demonstrating Spielberg's 1990's limousine-liberal biases. This is
especially seen in the character depictions. Another kind of example
which is comparatively minor is how the German troops' haircuts in
"S.P.R." tend to look more like those of late-20th Century skinheads
than what German SS and Wehrmacht troops usually wore.Also, I think that the reviewer James Bowman makes a good point about
movies such as "S.P.R." and "Flags of Our Fathers:" "...perhaps showing
too much respect for the suffering is not to show enough respect for
the man. For if we suppose, as some of us still do, that these men
suffered for something  to wit, their duty, their honor, their country
 don't these thing deserve just a little bit of respect as well?..."To get an idea of what the Normandy Campaign was like, you would be
much better off reading non-fiction accounts of it, and listening to
comments by actual men who were there. It takes much more than gushing
blood, flying body parts and the message "War is hell" to constitute a
great war film. If you want to see cinematic movies which do a better
job than "S.P.R." of depicting some of the general look and feel of
war, and the characters and attitudes of people of the World War II
period, try "Talvisota" and "Der Untergang." Also, "A Bridge Too Far"
is very good, especially for a blockbuster-type movie. "A Bridge Too
Far" has a few very minor inaccuracies, some composite characters and
some simplifications of the real events, but it does an excellent job
of showing the characters of troops and civilians, and it is mostly
factual. "The Longest Day," while it includes some Hollywood
flourishes, also is very good. It doesn't have the special effects and
combat realism of "S.P.R.," but it is almost completely based on facts,
which counts for a lot with me, and for which I rank it much higher
than "S.P.R." "The Longest Day" also has one of the most impressive
large-scale depictions of combat in any movie, showing the storming of
a German position by a Free French unit.

******
21 October 2000
1

Again, yes again, our friend Mr Spielberg does it.  He takes a subject
matter that needs clever acting and clever direction, but rams it home
like
a 2 hour pop video.Why do people like these films, THE ACTING WAS AWFUL, the story was
boring,
the script was something out of a 1950's 'B' movie and people, not just
one,
but many, are saying that was a great film.Go and see a movie that is cleverly made, not just a five minute script
that, uses every cliché in the book to ram home emotions and depth that
aren't there.  I suppose this film appeals to the masses that don't have
to
think about a movie, just accept it as arty as it had couple of drawn out
sad scene's, so it must be a masterpiece.I won't bother to go into the racism in the movie, the Germans played as
mindless morons that just walk into bullets and of course, us stumbling
Europeans, Australians, Russians, etc that actually fought through the
entirety of the war.0/10 - Awful.

******
18 April 2008
10
Even thinking about this film gives me the chills , well,like
practically everything Mr. Spielberg has done in his career , lifting
the American movie into the cinematic heaven . Hopefully , many movies
are still ahead of him , the greatest artist ever, no doubt !There is
nothing new to say about Saving Private Ryan , after so many years ,
except that perhaps it ought to become the must study subject for
anyone interested in military history or history as such , because
,friend,it cannot go any gorier than this , that is, any more realistic than
this ( watch Rambo 4 , When Trumpets Fade , Windtalkers ). Saving P.R.
has somehow created a new genre of films , that is ultra-realistic war
movie that transcends anything solely written, in fact , as has always
been the case with Mr. Spielberg, literature gets its visual
manifestation, where even Shakespeare would pipe down and bow in
reverence ! Even 10 is not enough , simply no numerical quality, unit ,
exists to describe the sheer power of this cinematic experience , not
even the designation 'film 'itself can do this ! Angelic, stratospheric
, out of this dimension , Mona Lisa in cinema !

******
17 November 1999
1

How could such a movie get any Academy Award? On the one hand Spielberg
did
a great job with this movie, but on the other:
The story is pure sh.. It is even not an anti-war movie, because at the
end
the American soldiers are represented as heroes. It is simply not true
that an
army (especially the US army) cares about a mother, who loses their sons
in
the war. They just don't care about it in the reality.

******
20 April 2006
10
Saving Private Ryan is the first movie that's kept my eyes glued to the
screen, no lie, for at least 30 minutes straight. The opening scene in
this movie is incredible. I've never been in war, but after seeing this
movie, I know, I just know, that that's what war is like. It's gotta
be. Steven Spielberg is amazing in this movie. The performances are
amazing. Everything is so well done. Sometimes the camera gets a little
too shaky, but you gotta picture it through the eyes of someone who's
actually there.I usually get bored with war movies, because it's usually the same
crap. But this movie sticks with me. It's gotta be hell to be a
soldier. The combat scenes were excellently done, and even though the
opening was extremely gruesome and gory, it just had to be that way.
The movie is a little long, almost 3 hours, but it's worth the entire
watch. The ONLY scene I thought was a little stupid was when they
(spoiler) found the wrong Private Ryan and he started crying cuz he
thought his brothers were dead. But aside from that, this is the best
war movie I've ever seen. Make sure you see this movie! FUBAR!

******
10 March 2005
10
This is truly the best war movie i've ever seen!!! Eerytime I watch it
I cannot stop crying, I get goosebumps only by thinking of it; what
makes it so special is that "Private Ryan" seems to have learned the
lesson: "EARN THIS!", it seems that he truly respected a dying man's
wish. About the scenes in the movie, I played the computer game "Medal
of Honor - Allied Assault" and I was surprised to see a lot of the
movie scenes in the game (Normandy, Sniper city - Caparzo, The bridge)
or vice versa. I don't have to tell you that MOHAA is my favorite
Computer game ever. All the respect to the genius of Steven Spielberg
(I mean it's like he was there)Bottom line: if you haven't seen it yet, YOUR GREAT LOSS

******
3 January 2006
9
I went to see this film back in 1998 with my father, who is a WWII
veteran who happened to serve in the Pacific Theatre, on Iwo Jima.
While on line, he struck up a conversation with another veteran who did
happen to serve in the European Theatre, and they discussed old times.
But near the end of the conversation, my dad said, "For what? For
what?" Something that still resonates with many WWII vets who are still
alive, and saw that war was not the prettified heroics pumped out of
the Hollywood studios, but a very real, bloody and bewildering hell,
fought by the young and vital, male and female alike.The premise of the film being a young man who has already lost several
brothers in the service, being saved by a platoon unknown to him has
its basis in fact. During the Second World War, many families had
several sons who either enlisted, or were drafted, and went into
different military units. The five Sullivan brothers, all of whom were
lost during the sinking of the USS Juneau, were the most famously
representative of this tragedy, and after the war, the practice of
multiple draft recipients from one family was eliminated. Does anyone
remember the scene where Private Ryan's mother sees an Army car pulling
up to her porch? The serviceman and her local clergyman approach her,
and she sinks down, struck by the horrible reality they are about to
convey. The terrible simplicity of this is deeply moving.There is also a brief scene in the beginning showing a secretarial pool
for the Armed Services, where letters for medals, both posthumous and
for the living, were typed and sent to families around the country. My
mother worked in one of those pools, and it was not an easy job to deal
with day by day.Some have asked - why no British soldiers here? This is an American
platoon on the Omaha beachhead, not one of Montgomery's units. The
daily dangers and horrors of war are vividly portrayed. The deaths
aren't pretty, and some of the characters aren't pretty, but that's the
way war is (and was). You were in a unit with all types, from different
states, and your common goal was to survive - kill, or be killed. There
were gloryboys and cowards, and some are shown here.The only maudlin note (and Spielberg can't seem to resist injecting
some sentimentality here) is when the mature Ryan, visiting the
military cemetery with his family, stops at the grave of his commanding
officer John Miller, and asks in tears, "Am I a good man?" In other
words - why them, and not me? Why am I here, outliving everyone? It
doesn't seem justified to him.There are some terrific performances to take in : Tom Hanks as John
Miller, Matt Damon as Pvt. Ryan, Tom Sizemore, and Vin Diesel, to name
just a few.The sacrifices of our fathers, uncles, and grandfathers' generation
were exemplary. They were the lucky ones who came back to lend their
voices to history, and without them, many of us, including myself,
would not be here. At the end of the film, I sat there, next to my dad,
who was also in tears. I would say, "God bless them, one and all."

******
14 March 2005
10
Anyone who disagrees can run their car into a wall at a fatal 150mph.
This is the greatest war movie ever made. 10 Reasons why. 1. Great Cast
2. Great Story 3. Great Set Design 4. Great Introduction 5. Great
Closing Scene 6. Great Sound Effects 7. Great Realism (People die in
war, not everyone lives in this one) 8. Great Score (by John Williams)
9. Great Purpose 10. Because I said so. This movie is so good that I
bought the DVD. I don't buy many movies for three reasons. 1. Most
movies get boring after you see them twice or more. 2. Rarely is a
movie worth the 20 dollars. 3. Only a moron would waste money on a
movie he or she would only watch once then throw it in a cabinet for
the rest of his or her life. Anyway...this movie rocks, end of story.

******
30 June 2005
10
"Saving Private Ryan" is one of Steven Spielberg's most haunting and
visually stunning films. As the film opens, you see an elderly man
(Whose identity is not revealed until the end), standing at a
headstone, in tears. Why? You soon understand the story as we go back
in time.It is D-Day, June 6th,1944. You are soon caught up in the battle on
Omaha Beach. And it is INCREDIBLY bloody. Soldiers are shot, drowned,
blown apart or on fire during the battle on the beach against the
Germany army. One of the soldiers fighting is Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks,
in one of his best performances), who fights bravely, but you can see
the terror that engulfs him. His hands say it all: an uncontrollable
shaking.Soon after the battle, Miller is given a mission: seems that 3 of the
killed men were brothers. A fourth is behind enemies lines and needs to
be rescued and sent home to America. With his team members accompanying
him, Miller starts his search for Private Ryan (Matt Damon).This is not an easy mission. Every single man knows that they may not
survive the trek through the countryside of Normandy. Pvt. Reiben
(Edward Burns)believes that Pvt. Ryan is not worth saving, at the cost
of their lives. But with courage and determination by the team
(although some members do lose their lives), they find Ryan. However,
Ryan refuses to leave because a bridge in a bomb shattered town needs
protection from the German army. With the assistance of the surviving
team, they take a stand against the army. It is at this point that the
surviving team members understand the importance of a lingering
question through the film: will their sacrifice make a difference? By
taking a stand to defend the bridge, the answer is obvious: yes.The performances of the actors are powerful; Including Hanks, Burns and
Damon, you have Tom Sizemore, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Giovanni
Ribisi, Vin Diesel and Jeremy Davies. John Williams, who always works
well with Spielberg, provides a powerful score. The battle at the
beginning of the film is one of the most heart wrenching scenes in
cinematic history (And is not for the squeamish). It is a very moving
film, and you will need plenty of tissue before you watch it.

******
18 March 2001
1

Yes, I know lots of people regard this film one of the greatest war movies
ever made blah, blah, blah, but I personally found it one of the most
grotesquely overrated pieces of crap I have suffered through in a long time
(as far as World War 2 movies go, only the recent version of "The Thin Red
Line" was more torturous).  While its portrayal of the horrors of war was
supposed to be profoundly shocking, I found it all rather amusing in a sick
sort of way myself, and during the initial scenes where the Allies were
landing at Normandy and getting massacred, I found myself inflamed with
feelings of BESTIAL WARLUST and smirking rather evilly at various
particularly violent and/or gory moments (eg where that troop carrier opens
up, only to have its entire human cargo mowed down in seconds by German
machine gunners).  Once this part of the movie had ended, however, I found
the whole thing rapidly getting boring: so much so that, during the violent
scene right at the end, I found myself squirming and fidgeting in my seat,
wondering when it would all be over.One of this film's main faults is that it doesn't have much of a storyline
to speak of and its whole premise (while admittedly based on a real-life
incident) seemed rather ridiculous to me.  Stupidly going for the bad guys
(as is a habit of mine when watching movies) also didn't help, and I
particularly detested all of the overt religiosity in the movie (such as
all
those highly offensive scenes of cross-kissing, and all those equally
nauseating comments by the Americans about how God was on their side in the
war (quite frankly, if God exists, I don't think he cares about stuff like
this)).  In addition to all of these other faults, the final scene is VILE
(last long enough to get to it and you'll hopefully see what I
mean).In summary, therefore, A HUNDRED MEGATON THERMONUCLEAR
BOMB!

******
19 December 2006
10
The greatest battle in the twentieth century took place at the shores
of Normandy, and it was fought by courageous soldiers who spilled their
guts and payed the ultimate sacrifice for freedom.Out there in that beach, Dog Green Sector, Omaha beach, hundreds if not
thousands of courageous American soldiers took and kept a vital
position for an invasion to liberate the old continent. Their warrior
spirit allowed them to gain a bitter victory.Too many young Americans died in that battle for making possible to
send other people free. This source of American pride moves me in so
many ways. We love the American heroism and we share our admiration for
the greatest warriors: the American soldiers.This movie, starring a great American actor, Tom Hanks, in the role of
Captain Miller, 2nd Ranger, shows the American attitude and the
struggle they went through to achieve one of the greatest American
victories in world history. It is not easy to understand the huge
victory it was for America and world freedom to win the most important
war in history. I will always love America for that.Other fantastic American actors like Vin Diesel and Giovani Ribisi play
an awesome performance as heroic kind-hearted soldiers in the face of
evil, showing all the heroism we can expect from an Army Ranger.All in all this movie is a must-see and it is worth to buy the DVD. The
fantastic soundtrack and the emotional flag-waving at the end of the
movie make your eyes to water-up. You will never forget this excellent
Hollywood production and the wonderful story told will get you
speechless for a while.

******
23 July 2005
1
Easily the worst movie ever made about World War II and the Normandy
Invasion on D-Day, Spielberg has taken the heroic story of the 5
Sullivan Brothers who lost their lives in the Pacific, renamed them
Ryan, moved them to Europe, and turned them into cry-babies. Spielberg
has said on TV that he never understood why America had to fight World
War II to begin with, and this movie proves it. The infamous "first 20
minutes" -- was touted as a super-realistic hardline look at the
horrors of combat. Hint: Look elsewhere, such as in Mel Gibson's
outstandingly raw combat scenes in "We Were Soldiers." Spielberg's
opening combat scenes are a dreadful special effects show, and any
viewer involvement falls flat for lack of either character development
or contact with Earth. When fighting a war, it's better to not send
cowards or airheads to do a man's job. The same can be said for making
movies about war. Spielberg ought to have evolved into a grown-up at
his age, but so far he's just devoid of character and backbone. This is
sadly reflected in this dreadful unpatriotic movie.

******
1 August 1998
1
I am not as enraptured by this film as so many others seem to be.  I sensed
a disturbing hollowness at its center, and I left the theater feeling as if
my emotions had been manipulated.  I found it ugly and shabby.
 
Beautifully photographed, though.

******
31 August 2015
8
This (in my opinion) is the only film that captures the true nature of
war. Films often glorify war. Saving Private Ryan exposes the beast for
what it truly is. The first five minutes of the landings are the best
example of the second World war for what it truly was. the sacrifice
and the suffering that was felt by men on both sides and what the
effects where on the survivors. As ever Hanks delivers a fantastic
performance that is both believable and gripping. the supporting actors
at first appear distant but the film creates a bond between the viewer
and the men involved as we experience the same events as they do that
exposes us to their incredible story. The film also stimulates a
debate. Was it right for the lives of several men for the life of a
last brother. Through this the film shows the true sacrifice that comes
with war. Best war film ever.

******
11 August 2015
9
Saving Private Ryan (1998): Dir: Steven Spielberg / Cast: Tom Hanks,
Matt Damon, Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore, Barry Pepper: Superbly crafted
war film about the value of a single human being. Three out of four
brothers die in the war 1914 while the fourth was a paratrooper deemed
lost. Private James Ryan is still alive and Tom Hanks is ordered to
bring troops in to extreme danger to bring him home at the request of
his mother. The first 25 minutes are horrifyingly realistic as
distorted bodies pile up on the Omaha Beach. Director by Steven
Spielberg details the reality of surviving an explosion only to
discover that your legs are missing. This can easily play double
billing with his Schindler's List. Tom Hanks delivers an excellent
performance as Captain Miller who leads the mission and is committed to
life itself. Matt Damon is well cast as James Ryan who makes a turn for
the good of others. Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore and Barry Pepper are
also featured among the squadron. The problem is that most of these
supporting roles are cardboard types that are always overshadowed by
the two leads. Even the scene where an enemy is saved only to later gun
one of them down. How likely is it for that same enemy to turn up again
with someone set to avenge his act? Featuring some of the best war
footage ever shot with a strong human story of havoc, heroism and the
value of human life. Score: 9 ½ / 10

******
22 May 2015
7
This is such a Spielberg movie, such a Hollywood blockbuster, such a
WWII drama, I can't even. All the cheesy dialogues, the sentimental
scenes, the horror of the war, the pathetic American nationalism with
the movie beginning and finishing with a take of the American flag, the
old war Veteran speaking to the grave, all the possible war tropes (the
nice guy who is afraid of killing, the highly moral doctor, the macho
Vin Diesel, the Jew fighting against Germans, the rebel who doesn't
follow the Captain's orders, and of course the heroic, brave
Captain)... I've seen these a million times, though probably never as
well put-together as in Saving Private Ryan. So I guess you could say
that it is, among its kind, the best; even if I'm not a fan of that
kind.The opening scene is a whole different story, though. The Normandy
landing is quite masterly filmed, and it probably ranks among the best
opening scenes ever (can't really think of any other opening scene as
memorable). It's cruel, bloody, and impressive.The ending, on the other hand, really put me down. Everything was so
cliché, and what's up with the Allied troops ending thanks to the
last-minute, never-mentioned help of the Air force? Script writers,
take note: NEVER let the plot be solved by an element that you never
mentioned to the public. Nothing creaks the illusion of reality as
much.

******
27 March 2015
7
Recently, war movies have aroused great interest. Accordingly, a
plethora of this sort of movies has invaded our cinemas. Maybe the two
most popular war movies in recent years have been Saving Private Ryan,
directed by Steven Spielberg, focused on the Normandy Landings, and
Flags of our Fathers, directed by Clint Eastwood, focused on the battle
of Iwo Jima (together with Letters from Iwo Jima, the Japanese view of
the conflict, whose premiere in Spain will be held in few weeks). Both
films show bloody scenes of fights and, as a result, the cruelty of the
war. In addition, a large part of both films is focused on the miseries
and attitudes towards death, danger and desperation of a small group of
soldiers. Also common to both films is the fact that the main
characters are actually antiheroes. The Spielberg's film takes place
mostly in the battlefield and is perfectly linear. On the other hand,
flashbacks are used in Flags of our Fathers in order to show both the
war and the propaganda campaign undertaken by the main characters going
across the United States. By virtue of this we can see a different
drama in this film related to the feelings and problems of the soldiers
when they come back home to undertake a mission they have not been
trained for. Furthermore, we clearly identify with the leading actor in
Saving Private Ryan (Tom Hanks). On the contrary, the three actors in
Eastwood's film actually share the prominence. The strength of Saving
Private Ryan lies in the intense representation of the war and it is a
typical war film, maybe better than others, but a war film
nevertheless. However, Flags of our Fathers is more complex. With his
usual skill, Eastwood shows a combination of war and politics, death
and propaganda.

******
2 February 2015
10
Everything in this movie was great, the camera work, special effects
and the scripts. The most gruesome scene is by far the opening beach
assault scene in the movie as it was very realistic,action packed and
made your stomach turn. It's characters like Pvt.Jackson that movies
like this great especially with his bible quoting and inch perfect
shots. The other most significant character in the movie for me is
Captain Miller. Captain Miler, the school teacher is perhaps one of the
most inspiring people for me personally. His leadership, awareness and
overall calmness is amazing. This is perhaps Spielberg's best ever
movie(debatable) and it will always be in my personnel top 10 because
of its realism and one of its main themes, the basis of war.

******
30 January 2015
10
Without question Saving Private Ryan is the best war movie of all time.
It is also credited for renewing worldwide interest in World War II and
also renewed popularity with old and new movies, TV shows, and video
games. Saving Private Ryan set the bar very high for all war movies
since its release. Steven Spielberg is a great director and Saving
Private Ryan is easily one of his best movies of all time. The all star
cast is fantastic.Saving Private Ryan starts with a World War II veteran bringing his
family to the American cemetery at Normandy when he is overcome with
emotion when visiting the graves of fellow soldiers who he served with.
The film then flashes back to the Allied invasion of Normandy on 6 June
1944. Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks in one of his best roles) leads
the 2nd Ranger Battalion onto Omaha Beach to secure the beach and
overcome the German defense amidst heavy casualties. While the opening
25 minute scene is unforgettable and excellently choreographed, this
scene is a perfect depiction of the brutality of the horrors of war. It
is realistically graphic and in no way glamorizes nor glorifies war
unlike other movies.Meanwhile in Washington D.C. at the U.S. War Department, correspondence
is being prepared to send to the various families notifying them of the
loss of their loved ones during the war. In one of the saddest scenes
of the movie in which you can't help but shed a tear, Mrs Ryan receives
three letters on the same day notifying her that three of her sons were
killed in action. A decision is made for the fourth son, Private James
Ryan (Matt Damon), to be located and sent home immediately.The mission to find Private Ryan is handed to Captain Miller and his
squad which includes his second in command Sergeant Horvath (Tom
Sizemore), the cynical machine gunner Private Rieben (Edward Burns),
Jewish soldier Private Mellish (Adam Goldberg), the deeply religious
sniper Private Jackson (Barry Pepper), medic Private Wade (Giovanni
Ribisi), Italian-American soldier Private Carparzo (Vin Diesel in an
early role), and a skilled translator Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies)
who has not seen combat and finds himself bumbling throughout the
mission and also resented by most of the squad members. The squad
members find themselves questioning their mission to find one soldier
and bring him home, but continue in their quest to locate Private Ryan
as well as battling through numerous encounters with the German Army
and confusion reigns as to whether Private Ryan is missing or
presumably killed in action.The screenplay by Robert Rodat is excellent and cinematography by
Janusz Kaminski perfectly captures the desaturated colour imagery of
World War II. Steven Spielberg's eye for detail as well as the ability
to bring out the emotional side of viewers is highly admirable. The
cast, particularly Tom Hanks as Captain Miller as an everyman thrust
into action as the leader of men is excellent and he makes this role
his own. Matt Damon as the young Private James Ryan must also be highly
commended. The rest of the cast such as Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns,
Giovanni Ribisi, Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel and Jeremy Davies shine in
their respective outstanding roles.Also in the all star cast, Dennis Farina (a well known character actor
who sadly passed away in 2013), Paul Giamatti (another character actor
known for comedic roles), Bryan Cranston (before his famous role as
Walter White in Breaking Bad), and Ted Danson (best known for TV shows
Cheers and Becker) pop up in small roles in Saving Private Ryan.Saving Private Ryan is one of the few emotionally powerful movies that
is capable of making grown men shed a tear, despite many unwilling to
openly admit it. There are a few scenes, particularly the ending that
evoke the emotional side of many viewers. Saving Private Ryan deserved its widespread critical acclaim and
success at the box office. It also garnered numerous awards and Steven
Spielberg was a well deserved winner, but in a complete travesty was
unfairly robbed of the 1998 Best Picture Academy Award. Why Saving
Private Ryan missed out on the Best Picture Academy Award I'll never
know.Saving Private Ryan exhibits Steven Spielberg's finest movie to date,
and this is certainly a very memorable movie for Tom Hanks. I take my
hat off to Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks for their fantastic work in
this movie. A lot of people say that Saving Private Ryan is one of the
best war movies of all time due to its realistic depiction of the
horrors of World War II. I wholeheartedly agree that it truly deserves
its recognition as the best war movie of all time, and rightfully so.10/10.

******
29 January 2015
10
Well it contains 2 of my favorite actors(Matt Demon and Tom Hanks), so
i knew it was going to be epic. Amazing acting, i can't pick someone
that was the best. The scenes were fantastic i actually felt like i was
in the movie. The audio effects were outstanding. Every times i watch
this movie i tear up. The acting made so much emotion in the movie. But
why should you watch this movie? If you like action movies then this
movie is for you. If you like Drama this movie is for you! Matt Demon
made the character better then it should had been. Tom hanks, his
acting made the movie to what it is. Only way this movie could had been
better is if Chritopher Nolan

******
19 January 2015
10
Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg have proved many times that they have a
great deep respect and understanding of war and the ones who fight on
either side, and this along with Band of Brothers is probably the best
on screen portrayal of war that I've seen personally.The opening sequence of Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) and the rest of
the Army Rangers landing on Omaha Beach is one of the most jaw dropping
openings ever put into film. I still remember my reaction to the
opening scene when I first watched this and I was literally stunned
when they show the soldiers in the boats immediately getting struck by
bullets the moment the doors open up. The rest of the battle sequences
are filmed with so much authentic realism and are never seem glorified
in the slightest, and the final battle is one of the most intense, nail
biting battle sequences I've ever seen. A lot of detail was put into
the locations and the American and German Army uniforms and tanks. The
sound design and the camera movements by Spielberg make you feel like
you're right in the middle of the action. This is one of those times
where shaky cam can be used with skill, given that it's set in the
middle of a war zone.Story wise, it's very well done. Captain Miller and his men are sent
deep into German occupied Normandy to look for Private James Ryan of
the 101st Airborne Division after his 3 brothers are killed in combat
elsewhere in the war, and they question why they should even bother
going along with it. Up until you meet James Ryan and get to know him,
the movie does a good job of posing the question: "Why should we
sacrifice all these lives for just one man?" I don't know the answer to
that question, but it seems to me that when they meet him at the final
act, they see what kind of person he is and they decide he's worth
saving and literally go through hell to ensure his safety.As for the cast/characters, each character gets their own moment to
shine even if it's not that long. This is one of Tom Hanks' best
performances, and the scene where he breaks down after losing Wade
shows you how great of an actor this guy is. Matt Damon is the best
actor they could've chosen as Private James Ryan even if he's not in it
that much, Edward Burns' character gets on my nerves a bit on how big
of an a-hole he is until the end when he decides to help Private Ryan
in the end. Tom Sizemore is really funny, Giovanni Ribisi and Barry
Pepper are very good in their parts. As is Vin Diesel surprisingly. As
for Upham (Jeremy Davies), a lot of people hate his character since he
didn't rescue Mellish from being stabbed in the chest by a German
soldier, and while I do agree that he should've helped at the same time
I can't really blame him for being scared the way he was. I've been in
the National Guard for the last two years, though I've never been in
combat but I can tell you that not everybody is going to look and act
like the Terminator when they're put into a life threatening situation.
Some people just can't deal with that. Plus I found it pretty
satisfying when he shoots the same German soldier in the end not only
for Mellish but also in response to shooting Captain Miller.And another thing I've appreciated is how the movie doesn't portray the
Germans as monsters. The story is told from an American perspective and
don't really focus on the German side on the war and even though there
were some who truly believed in Nazism, most of the Germans were just
human beings like you and I. They were just doing what they were told,
fighting for their country, family and fellow comrades.Even though a lot of directors have done this with their movies,
Spielberg has this cool way of pulling all these familiar faces out of
thin air into his movies even if it's for a brief amount of time: Bryan
Cranston from Breaking Bad is in here (as a fan of the show I get all
giddy whenever he's on screen), Ted Danson, Paul Giamatti, Dale Dye,
Leland Orser, the late Dennis Farina and fans of Joss Whedon's
"Firefly" will pleased to see Nathan Fillion in this movie even if it's
only for about 3 minutes.In the end, this is one of my all time favorite movies and probably my
favorite war film by far. It has a well executed story, well realized
characters, intense battle scenes, a great musical score by the one and
only John Williams, respect for the historical setting and finally the
part where Captain Miller says to Private Ryan, "Earn this" chokes me
up every time I watch it. Spielberg has done great work before and
after he made this movie but he really outdoes himself with this one.

******
16 January 2015
9
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is an instant American war epic. Directed by Steven
Spielberg and deserving of its critical acclaim. The opening 27 minutes
is a graphic and realistic depiction of the assault at Omaha Beach on
June 6, 1944. An intensive and prolonged sequence featuring the
brutality of combat. Captain John Miller(Tom Hanks)leads a Ranger
Battalion ashore with intent of securing a beachhead. Graphic and
intense images not for the faint of heart. Army Chief of Staff, George
C. Marshall assigns Cpt. Miller and a select squad of six plus an
interpretor to search for a paratrooper, Private James Francis
Ryan(Matt Damon),the last surviving brother of four that have entered
the war. At times Miller's squad wants to balk on the search, but pull
together not in respect for Ryan, but Miller.This movie was written by Robert Rodat and features a musical score by
the acclaimed John Williams. Cinematography is more than outstanding
and features amazing camera positioning. There is an all-star cast that
also features: Tom Sizemore, Barry Pepper, Giovanni Ribisi, Edward
Burns, Vin Diesel, Paul Giamatti, Adam Goldberg, Jeremy Davies, Ted
Danson and Dennis Farina.

******
15 January 2015
10
Three brothers have been killed in the line of duty, all within days of
each other. The fourth brother is somewhere in Normandy. Orders come
from the highest level to bring him home. Improbable as the scenario
may be, this provides the setup for one of the best war movies ever
made.First off, Saving Private Ryan is one of the most realistic portrayals
of combat I've ever seen. It pulls no punches when it comes to the
sheer brutality of war. The opening assault on Omaha Beach was possibly
the bloodiest sequence filmed up to that time, and the subsequent
engagements have no shortage of carnage either. But this is no
splatterfest; while it doesn't shy away from the blood and gore, it
doesn't dwell on them either. The violence is here because that's what
war is like, not for shock value.The same approach is taken with the numerous death scenes. When a
member of the team is killed, the movie doesn't just move on and say
"Oh well." It makes you feel for the deceased, and for his comrades.
Yet it never falls to the level of melodrama. There are no half-baked
dying speeches, nothing about how he was supporting six kids who will
now be left on the street (and yes, I have seen that line used,
although it was in the context of a mining collapse.) Saving Private
Ryan also deals with the thoughts and emotions of ordinary men thrust
into war. The men of the Second Rangers, battle hardened though they
may be, are not career soldiers. They answered the call of duty, but
more than anything else, they just want the war to end so they can go
home alive. Every time Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) loses a man, he
consoles himself that one life was given so that two or three or ten
could be saved, that the war is bigger than one man. But this time, the
mission is about one man; a man they can't even be sure is still alive.
It is a testament to these men's courage and sense of duty that they
continue on a dangerous mission that few of them believe in.As for Captain Miller, he is quite likely Hank's best role since
Forrest Gump. He's quiet and reserved- to the point that there's a $300
prize for guessing his hometown- but he knows what he's doing and cares
about the men under his command. He is ever the example for the men,
never complaining or expressing doubts in front of the men. He praises
them when they do well, tells it to them in no uncertain terms when
they screw up, and does whatever he has to to keep them focused on
their mission, even if deep down he thinks the whole thing is Fubar.
And when he's given the choice between returning to headquarters, his
objective achieved, or risking everything to make a stand against long
odds, he makes the right decision.And in the end, when the now aged James Ryan stands over the graves of
the men who died to save him, it was one of the most moving, uplifting
cinematic experiences I've had. Spielberg and Hanks have created not
only a gripping war film, but a fitting tribute to the American
soldier.

******
14 December 2014
10
A few years after winning his first Oscar for his best movie
(Schindler's List) Spielberg wins his second Best Directing Oscar for
his next war epic, Saving Private Ryan, arguably the greatest war movie
of all time. In my opinion, this is tied with Apocalypse Now as the
best. Both are fantastic war movies, but they're too different to
really pick which is better. But I do agree when people say this should
have won the Oscar for Best Picture. My favourite movie of the year was
American History X, but Saving Private Ryan was a better piece of film.
The movie that beat Saving Private Ryan, Shakespeare in Love, was a
great and deserving flick, but not as deserving as this.This movie has a very simple concept, a war Captain (Hanks) leads a
group of eight soldiers in the Normandy invasion during the Second
World War to rescue a Private Ryan (Damon) and bring him back to his
mother. The closer the group gets, the deadlier the mission becomes
with the men dying one by one. Why are eight men risking their lives
just to save one? Best war movie or not, this is the most realistic, bar none. The camera
is shaky and distorted to capture the most realistic experience
possible. Even more realistic than Schindler's List. So much that it
looks like actual found footage. That is what makes the movie so
brilliant, and so disturbing. The deadlier the mission becomes, the
more exciting the movie gets. A fascinating tale of courage and
heroism, the end result will leave you clapping with joy.

******
17 November 2014
9
Saving Private Ryan is technically excellent, it achieved what very few
films do  it set a new benchmark. The film's harsh aesthetic and
desaturated colour palette has been emulated many times, Ryan's
influence can be seen in films from We Were Soldiers (2002) and Rambo
(2008) to Black Hawk Down (2001) and Fury (2014). Although there have
been some decent efforts, I am yet to see a film that equals let alone
surpasses the beginning 25 minutes, the final battle in the fictional
French town of Ramelle and everything in between.The film follows the 2nd Ranger Battalion, the salient characters of
which including Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks), the affable yet
authoritative leader; Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore), the platoon's
second in command; Private Jackson (Barry Pepper), a stylishly ultra-
accurate, cross kissing sniper from the bible belt; Private Reiben
(Edward Burns), an incendiary man from Brooklyn; Private Mellish (Adam
Goldberg), a Jew who relishes informing German captives of his heritage
and T4 Grade Timothy Upham (Jeremy Davies), a very timid man who proves
wholly unsuited to war. The men's mission is to locate and send home
Private James Ryan (Matt Damon) on the compassionate orders of Chief of
Staff George Marshall, who has been informed that Ryan's three brothers
have all died in combat, their mother receiving the three telegrams
simultaneously.'You wanna explain the math of this to me? I mean, where's the sense of
riskin' the lives of the eight of us to save one guy?' says the
argumentative Private Reiben. He addresses what I'm sure many viewers
were wondering  is this premise plausible? Although inspired by and
probably keen to emulate Lincoln's Bixby letter, would George Marshall
have really possessed such compassion during a state of total war? It's
interesting to note that screenwriter Robert Rodat developed the idea
after reading a monument in Putney Corners, New Hampshire that listed
the names of eight brothers who died during the American Civil War.Unlike Brad Pitt in the recent Fury, Tom Hanks gives the performance of
an everyday man, a middle-class secondary school teacher thrust into an
extraordinary situation. Hank's character Captain Miller reminds you of
what is now the unthinkable idea of conscription, reminds you of how
civilians with little or no prior interest, ability or training in the
army were mobilised to kill and conquer. There's not much to be found
outside of Captain Miller in terms of characterisation however,
Miller's men are quite flat and unremarkable, apart from Private
Jackson, whose ultra-accuracy is displayed with a stylish flair that's
out of character in a film whose violence is appropriately ugly.
Jackson is also a good ol' boy, a self-righteous bible spouting stock
character who was recently emulated by Shia LaBeouf as 'Boyd 'Bible'
Swan' in Fury.What I also found slightly troubling was the construction of the
Germans, it was somewhat crude. Of the countless German troops we see
in the film, the only one that is given any depth, 'Steamboat Willie'
(Joerg Stadler), is shown to be a horribly callous backstabber;
although, considering the context of total war, some may argue that he
was just a soldier doing his duty. The narrative arcs of 'Willie' and
Upham (the coward of the platoon) intertwine, climaxing in a scene that
I think is ethically dubious.Despite both narrative and character development being somewhat thinly
drawn, they're not that bad and, crucially, not the centre of the film.
The film's great accomplishment lies in its seminal depiction of
warfare. Cinematographer Janusz Kaminski is to be commended for his
raw, grisly aesthetic and his perfectly judged use of erratic camera
movement, a style that has been messily emulated to nausea-inducing
effect far too many times.Like many others have, I could praise endlessly the new level of
gripping realist cinema that Ryan introduced to viewers; however almost
all of this commendation is being delivered by people who have never
experienced battle. How do we know what a battle truly looks and feels
like? The majority of what I witnessed seemed realistic to me, but I
can't offer solid corroboration as I stepped foot on Omaha Beach 70
years too late. Surely the ultimate endorsement and affirmation for
Saving Private Ryan's authenticity is from the people who have
experienced war.Written in the Florida Times Union on 15th August 1998 was an account
of D-Day veterans 'enduring' Saving Private Ryan. This included Bill
Faust, 78, who was accompanied in the theatre by only one other as the
rest of his North Florida D-Day veterans' group walked out - 'I should
have never gone to see that damn movie,' Faust said, 'In my mind, most
of the details of D-Day were gone; all this did was bring them back
it's better to keep them tucked away where they don't bother you.'The article continues  'Vietnam veteran Ed Kelly, 57, left before the
opening scene was over - "I just couldn't handle it" Kelly said. "The
kid holding his guts; I had seen that in Vietnam. That was it for me. I
got up and walked out. It was the closest thing to the horrors of real
combat that I have ever seen.'There was also Jerry Markham, 79, who walked out of the theatre
'impressed and depressed, amazed but saddened by the realism of the
sights and sounds, especially the instant deaths after the landing
craft ramps were lowered.' Markham was a Navy chief petty officer on a
demolitions team on D-Day and saw his commanding officer die this way -
'That scene broke me up... that was how it happened. Bodies were flying
everywhere I wouldn't recommend it for young children, but anyone 14,
15 or older should see it they should start learning about how
horrible war is.' I think all of this speaks volumes for Saving Private Ryan's
credibility.90%(for the full travel article, please visit www.hawkensian.com)

******
18 September 2014
10
Great war movie! Saw it listed as a documentary which it is not. Based
on a small kernel of truth, 90% of the movie is fiction. (There was no
trek across France nor any battles to retrieve Niland - the real Pvt.
Ryan.)Don't get me wrong. I am not complaining. But fiction is fiction,
usually with a hefty dose of drama. And Ton Hanks' portrayal of the
Captain in charge of the group sent to find and bring Ryan back is
great. All the supporting cast is also great. The action scenes are
superb. I particularly liked the scenes of the armour. (Halftracks,
tanks, etc.) However this is still a work of fiction. To call it a
documentary does a dis-service to film-makers and servicemen alike.

******
22 July 2014
9
Loved this movie. Great acting and a great story. A powerful and
realistic re-creation of WWII's D-day invasion and the immediate
aftermath. Spielberg does an amazing job with this movie. Although
there is a lot of blood and guts, it makes it more real. Tom Hanks is
one of today's great actors. He did an amazing job in the movie. The
start of the movie is hard to watch at times. However it makes it so
real and puts you in the place of the soldiers. The special affects and
sound make the movie seem more real too. Saving Private Ryan goes
beyond technical dazzlement to put a new, indelibly terrible face on
war. It makes you realize what they went though for our freedom.

******
6 July 2014
9
If it is possible to make a majestic film about a hellish war Steven
Spielberg has done so. With Saving Private Ryan Spielberg beautifully
blends the arts of filmmaking and storytelling. With such an
accomplished director at the helm it is no surprise that this is such a
technically proficient film, that it looks so spectacular, so real. But
this film is so much more than the stunning, often horrifying, visuals.
This is a film with a magnificent, inspiring story. And Spielberg tells
that story so well, taking you through the emotional wringer. Tom Hanks
leads an outstanding cast, Janusz Kaminski's cinematography is
breathtaking, John Williams provides a powerful and at times haunting
score. And credit must also go to screenwriter Robert Rodat whose story
is so incredibly compelling. So many people contributing so brilliantly
to an absolutely fascinating film. Everyone did their part and
Spielberg put all the pieces together perfectly.The film begins on D-Day with the Normandy invasion which of course
could be an entire film in and of itself. This sequence is unrelenting,
Spielberg sparing nothing in his depiction of the inconceivable
violence on Omaha Beach. Never has any film so brutally illustrated
that war is indeed hell. Thousands of men bravely face what for so many
must seem to be a certain death. As the bodies fall and blood turns the
sea red Captain John Miller continues to push his company forward. They
make a critical breakthrough but at such cost. Miller, and we, look
down at the carnage below on the beach. So many men lay there, having
made the ultimate sacrifice. The camera focuses in on one of the dead,
on his backpack we see the name: S. Ryan. And we know that this film,
even as it tells the tale of a conflict which engulfed the whole world,
is going to tell a very personal story.The Ryan we see lying on the beach is one of three Ryan brothers killed
in action. A fourth Ryan brother, James, is missing in action having
parachuted behind German lines. From Washington comes a very unusual,
but very clear order. Captain John Miller is to find James Ryan. And
send him home. Miller assembles a small unit from his company. Eight
men will go out into the French countryside, still occupied by Germans
mind you, to find and save Private Ryan. Eight men will risk their
lives to save one. Suffice to say not all of the eight are particularly
happy with this assignment. But orders are orders and off the men go,
into the great unknown. No simple mission this. Danger lurks at every
turn. Spielberg ratchets up the tension, keeping you on the edge of
your seat. You care so much about these men because Spielberg,
certainly with a great assist from screenwriter Rodat, has done such a
fine job of allowing you to know them. These characters come fully
formed. You feel you know them, really understand them, almost from the
moment you first meet them. So many different personalities in the
group. Credit of course must go to the actors portraying the squad, the
performers bring these soldiers brilliantly to life. Hanks is the star,
the leader, and he is excellent. But the other actors match him stride
for stride. Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg,
Vin Diesel, Giovanni Ribisi and Jeremy Davies...none put a foot wrong.
An amazing cast which does justice to an amazing story.It is the story which really sets this film apart. It is a film about
war but really it is a film about one man. But maybe that one man is
not Private Ryan. Ryan plays his part but is this story really about
Captain Miller? An ordinary man thrust into an extraordinary situation.
A leader of men, doing his duty. Doing whatever is necessary to get his
men, and himself, home. Hanks does such a terrific job portraying this
man who remains an enigma even to his own men. Sometimes you get the
sense he is an enigma to himself. He has lost the sense of who he is,
or at least who he used to be. War will do that to you. The worldwide
conflict is ultimately fought by individual men. And Spielberg allows
you to get to know some of these men. Ryan and Miller. And Horvath,
Reiben, Jackson, Mellish, Caparzo, Wade and Upham. Each has his own
story to tell. And seeing each of their stories play out takes us back
to the film's opening, to Omaha Beach. So many men died there. No film
can tell every one of their stories. But with this film Spielberg has
honored them all. A film of staggering scope and awesome power but with
a personal touch. That Saving Private Ryan did not win the Best Picture
Oscar is sad, quite frankly absurd. But honoring the film is not really
important. Honoring the men who died so that we may be free is what
really matters. And this film does just that.

******
25 June 2014
9
A Beautifully Sad War Film - almost sounds like an oxymoron because
there isn't anything beautiful about war yet a film like Saving Private
Ryan shows the rare beauty in humans in times of war.The movie seems to be heartfelt by all the actors because each played
their roles so emotionally - as if the movie was their reality. I guess
that is what makes a great actor, they tend to experience or act out
very well real emotions while making a film.The ugly reality of war is seen throughout the movie and is
heart-pounding action during those scenes.The ending of this film will bring a grown man to tears... in fact,
anyone to tears that has a heart.9.5/10

******
19 June 2014
10
Film Review of Saving Private RyanThe film Saving Private Ryan (1998) is a masterful period piece on the
life of a select group of American soldiers during and shortly after
the Normandy invasion in World War II. The film's plot is based on a
small force of soldiers assigned to go behind enemy lines to find and
bring home a young soldier whose family has lost all of their other
sons to the war effort. Their interpersonal conflicts, thoughts, and
physical efforts to fulfill this duty provide a gripping emotional and
action packed film. The theme revolves around the sacrifices of men
during war to accomplish difficult if not seemingly impossible
assignments and goals. The viewer of this film experiences the personal
point of view of the main character Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) during
this battle and assignment. We see a range of emotional and physical
acts of courage, strength, and fear that each soldier exhibits as he
battles toward the front lines. Since the majority of viewers did not
take part in this war, the film brings to light many of the horrors of
war along with the exceptional responses humans are capable of
producing during such times. The men that fought this fight had to be
overwhelmed and horrified to watch their comrades die as well as for
the majority experiencing killing for the first time. Spielberg's
directing and the acting of the main actors relay the realism,
emotions, and fears of war to the audience. Director Steven Spielberg
creates an exciting adventure film with the use of different cameras,
angles, and points of view. The use of the flashback point of view of
Pt. Ryan (Matt Damon) from the initial scene in the cemetery throughout
the film is a pivotal technique for continuity and emotional impact.
The sound effects and surround sound evoke a strong and emotional
response by adding realism. The lead characters Capt. John Miller (Tom
Hanks), Sgt. Horvath (Tom Sizemore), Pt. Reiben (Edward Burns), Pt.
Jackson (Barry Pepper), Pt. Mellish (Adam Goldberg), T-4 Medic Wade
(Giovanni Ribisi) and Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies) all delivered
believable performances with examples of the varying personalities any
group under extremely trying circumstances would exhibit. Captain
Miller is the lead character commanding his team through many difficult
obstacles. This team had not only enemies to fight but at times each
other. The interplay between the characters adds interest and depth to
this film again revealing the theme of sacrifice as each character
struggles with the amount of sacrifice he is willing to make to
complete the assignment of saving Pt Ryan. Tom Hanks again progresses
in his acting depth by taking on an intensely dramatic role. His
performance is an excellent mix of intensity, frustration, and caring
that will mark this piece as one of his best thus far. Saving Private Ryan is a fictional piece but based on true events from
WWII where three sons in one family were killed within a one week
period. The United States war department then sent a group of soldiers
to try and find a fourth son before he too was killed. Post WWII, the
Fighting Sullivans (1944) was another film in a similar theme based on
the true story of five brothers all dying when their battleship the
U.S. Juneau sank (www.history.navy.mil/faqs/faq72-1.htm) The director
and actors brought realism to this story and the entire film. Spielberg
and Hanks along with the rest of the cast draw on skill and emotions to
reveal the core of human strength in times of sacrifice and war in
Saving Private Ryan. While the film is long, almost three hours, it is
well worth the viewing and highly recommended.

******
14 June 2014
10
Steven Spielberg's saving Private Ryan is the best war movie ever made
of the emotional impact and the excellent shooting scenes. The most
emotional scene is the very beginning because of D-Day and the massive
amount of casualties of war. The movie stars Tom Hanks as Captain John
Miller who unfortunately did not win an Oscar for this movie when he
really should have won, director Steven Spielberg has crafted his best
movie since his first Oscar winning turn since his 1993 holocaust movie
Schindler's List. Also in the movie there were a lot of other good
performances from Matt Damon, Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, and Vin
Diesel. This movie goes on a par with war film classics such as Black
Hawk Down, Patton, The Deer Hunter, Platoon, Sands of Iwo Jima, Flags
of Our Fathers, The Devil's Brigade, and 633 Squadron. Another reason
why this movie was great is because the shooting scenes looked so
realistic, This is a triumph that is the best movie of 1998.

******
26 January 2014
10
"Saving Private Ryan" opens with a 30-minute cinematic tour de force
that is without a doubt one of the finest half-hours ever committed to
film. This sequence, a soldier's-eye view of the D-Day invasion of
Normandy, is brilliant not only in terms of technique but in the depth
of viewer reaction it generates. It is certainly the most violent,
gory, visceral depiction of war that I have ever witnessed on screen.
Spielberg spares the viewer nothing of the horrors of battle, using
every tactic at his disposal to convey the chaos and senseless waste
that lies at the core of any engagement. We are presented with
unforgettable, bloody images of bodies being cut to pieces by bullets,
limbs blown off, entrails spilling out, and a variety of other assorted
examples of carnage. And, when the tide comes in with the waves
breaking on the body-strewn beach, the water is crimson. Those who are
at all squeamish will find the opening of "Saving Private Ryan"
unbearable.It's a condemnation of war wrapped in a tale of human courage and
sacrifice. Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks), a hero and survivor of the
Omaha Beach battle, is chosen to lead the team of eight men whose goal
is, in Miller's words, like finding "a needle in a stack of needles."
His hand- picked team includes six men who have served with him
throughout the war. The supporting cast is uniformly excellent. These
are a cast of characters who are unforgettable, and the film takes the
time to flesh them out, and let the audience interact with them in
their journey to find Ryan."Saving Private Ryan" is a powerful experience. I'm sure a lot of
people will weep during it. Spielberg knows how to make audiences weep.
This film embodies ideas. After the immediate experience begins to
fade, the implications remain and grow.The film's central question (When is one life more important than
another?) is never really answered. For those who are willing to brave
the movie's shocking and unforgettable images, "Saving Private Ryan"
offers a singular motion picture experience.

******
2 January 2014
8
Director Steven Spielberg creates some of the most thrilling action
sequences in a movie. It follows a group of U.S. soldiers led by
Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) from the Normandy landing to a climatic
battle for a bridge.Following the landing, Miller and his men are ordered to find Private
Ryan who is the last surviving son of his family. They travel all
around trying to find the right Private Ryan. Eventually he is found
guarding a bridge.The movie is bookended with two heart stopping action sequences. The
biggest drawback is the smallness of the goal. The idea that there is
this gigantic war all around, and the quest is to find one tiny little
soldier. This story is no 'The Longest Day'.

******
7 November 2013
7
This is a powerful and dark film about a group of U.S. soldiers going
behind enemy lines to try to locate a missing paratrooper, whose
brothers have been killed in action.This film explicitly depicts the horror and consequences of war:
bloodshed, fallen comrades, fierce battles and destroyed cities. Steven
Spielberg's direction made this a fast-paced movie with nonstop action
and suspense and superb acting, helped by an eerie music score by John
Williams. As in other war movies, just the parts where the two opposing
sides hunt and battle each other to the death are heart-pounding.This is one of those movies that are too long and complex to summarize
all in one review. However, I can say that this movie is not for
everybody, as many might get disturbed with the explicit and graphic
war-violence scenes. Those who don't find the violence and enjoys high
drama, action and a story based on a historical context will find this
an entertaining feature.Grade B

******
16 August 2013
10
Spielberg succeeds in crafting an intriguing narrative, combined with
incredible performances and confronting but impressive battle
sequences. Also Hanz Zimmer provides an amazing score to accompany an
already magnificent masterpiece.Tom Hank' Oscar nomination was
warranted, and he benefited significantly from the excellent supporting
cast members particularly Matt Damon, Barry Pepper, Tom Sizemore and a
surprisingly emotional performance by Vin Diesel. The film is a
harrowing exploration of the nature of warfare, the devastation and
death that it can cause. Saving Private Ryan is a wonderful companion
to HBO series Band Of Brothers, and its critical and financial success
is testament to its quality.

******
15 August 2013
3
i saw a very cheap DVD of the film going for sale so a friend persuaded
me to buy it, i have avoided since it came out, i now know that i was
totally right to avoid the film, it is badly written, badly directed
but worst of all utterly boring. previous knowledgeable posts have
stated how inaccurate in almost all ways the film is. this is a
constant Spielberg trait, he never cares for accuracy or logic even
within his own film universe. he will do scenes just for the sake
mainly of his "great shots", the times he has the men framed against a
setting sun in silhouette just got tedious. for years spielberg has
been hailed by critics and public as this master film maker and story
teller but in reality he probably has made only a couple of decent
films, his recent Lincoln was an utter bore,War Horse just about got
by. one of his other traits is the constant intrusion of john williams'
music as in his other films the music is pretty incessant there were
scenes of quiet dialogue where music comes in that was utterly over the
top

******
13 August 2013
10
Erwin Rommel is hardly the one to blame for mistakes made by the Nazi's
in the assumption that Normandy would be to blame for the landing there
rather than at the Pas de Calais; that was the one thing that Ike
Eisenhower and the command staff should receive great credit for all
they did to deceive Hitler. Rommel is still characterized as the one of
two geniuses in the Wehrmacht (the other being von Runstedt and his
development of the Blitzkreig which was so successful in France and the
beginnings of the fatal mistake of invading the Soviet Union. In fact,
Rommel was convinced that just as in the Salerno invasion, the troops
would come ashore in Normandy, and in so believing, he vastly made the
invasion more deadly by increasing Normandy Beach hazards and in
flooding the landing spots for airborne/glider landings. And this is a
great film in spite of the fact that Tom Hanks simply has to play the
very role of the great Hero, General Norman Cota, the eldest American
on Omaha Beach and the leader of the breakout with such brave
leadership and by using the rarely used Bangalore torpedoes to shatter
the second strand of barbed wire and leading the troops to great valor
with his leadership. My only regret about the film was the failure to
credit General Cota somehow in the breakthrough to the murderous
machine gun fire.

******
9 August 2013
6
Saving Private Ryan is a film best appreciated by the action scene
enthusiast. Flawless detail and fantastic direction- particularly in
the notorious opening scene- combine to reach a superb portrayal of
World War 2's Normandy landing. Normally, I wouldn't enthuse with
action scenes, but in this film they are as simultaneously delicate and
brutal as an audience could wish for.Other than that, the film is one dimensional. There is no real
storyline. It would not be a spoiler to summarise the plot as; 'boy's
brothers die, men go to find him' because that the entire progression
of a 3 hour film. Without the acting of Tom Hanks, who just about
propels the plot into something worthwhile. But even after Mr Hanks,
you are left at the end with the feeling that you have missed a none
existent development in a film that could do with one.Not the film of a motion picture aficionado. Yet a film not to be
missed, despite its limitations.

******
24 July 2013
3
Saving Private Ryan by Steven Spielberg To the question "What is your
favorite movie or what movie you have seen many times?" The first
movie, title which comes up to my mind is Saving Private Ryan by Steven
Spielberg. The movie won 5 Oskar. It is the best movie about Second
World War which was shooting by American Cinematography. I saw SPR
(Saving Private Ryan) on TV. The cable TV which we had back home was
translating a lot of International movies. American movies are one of
the best, the whole world knows about American movies. Big budgets,
filming skills and actors are best in America. By those criteria SPR
caught my attention and dipped me into the atmosphere of bloody war.
The film is about American soldiers' encounter with German forces at
the coast line during the first day of D-Day. American army organized
with Allies a massive landing on the Normandy beach (North France).
Also thousands of paratroopers landed into deep into center of France.
The story begins with scene where Private Ryan shown as already old
man, who is walking with his family at soldiers' cemetery. Ryan came to
honor the memory to the significant person of his life, the person who
saved his life, the price which was the dead life of whole rescue
group. The interesting part begins after first scene. The picture
quickly changes from silent soldiers' cemetery, where the grass is
green; sky is blue, and people wearing bright colored cloth to the
Normandy beach. In 1944th before year of victory, France was still
occupied and controlled by German-Nazi army. Germans built a massive
defensive line along all France beach territory. Defenders set up a big
number of bunkers and fences on the beach. All that picture of war was
presented in high quality. Massacre begins with lending American troops
to the beach where Germans starts to shoot them. American forces loses
thousands of people under the machine-gun fire during the first hours
of landing on Omaha beach that how was named that sector. The main
actors are identified at the moment when camera showing American
troopers sailing to the beach and that entire scene follows Captain
Miller's squad.

******
13 July 2013
10
When the Captain in charge of the typing pool brings the three Ryan
telegrams to his Colonel, the map behind the Colonel is a Mercator
Projection of the world, split at the International Date Line. Mercator
Projections in 1944 would have placed North America in the center and
divided the Eurasian continent equally on both sides. The decision to
split the map at the International Date line wasn't officially made
until the National Geographic Society decreed it in 1988.When the
soldiers are at the seawall during the D-Day scene Miller explains to
Horvath that Dog 1 exit is to the west. Right after that, the soldier
behind Miller with the BAR leans up on him and shouts "they're killing
us because we don't have chance and that ain't fair". When he is saying
"chance" the camera changes angles and the soldier who was yelling is
facing the seawall and not even talking, even though "and that ain't
fair" is still being said

******
28 June 2013
9
What is war about? To win it? To represent yourself as the better and
stronger country? Policy? Origin? What exactly hid in that hideous
scenario of World War 2? Own conflicts of soldiers and the life of a
single individual. James Francis Ryan from Iowa. A life for many.
Deserves a man's life when it has to be more? A question for some of
the soldiers doubt. Whose life is worth more, they wonder, that one of
their fighting men or a desperate enemy of the results. "Saving Private
Ryan" shows a new impression in the second World War, and illustrates
how the soldiers were eaten up the mental images of decisions, the
sense of justice and balance. Policy does not matter, it's a story
about the soldiers and just about them, with all their strengths, fears
and weaknesses, but each with his own. Spielberg shows how cruel and
dirty the time of the Second World War, with excellent performance and
proves that there isn't just Indiana Jones and Jaws in him but still
completely different surprises.

******
22 June 2013
9
Saving Private Ryan breathtaking? No doubt. It was really, how do I say
this... graphic and realistic. It made me feel how WW2 affected
soldiers like the ones in the movie. It also taught me war was more
bloody and gory, not what I see in movies like Apocalypse Now or The
Longest Day. I'd also praise the actors performance. They seemed to
have the right emotions and I could tell each and every single
character personality. But somewhat, I have lots of questions. I have
lots to ask, but here's one: How was it possible that Ryan's Mother
managed to get contact of her son's deaths in only days after they
died? How did they even know Sean, Peter or Daniel Ryan died in the
first place? Many other plot holes I didn't get, so I gave this film a
9/10. Thanks for reading.

******
26 April 2013
9
"If God is for us, who could be against us?" The recreation of the
Normandy Beach invasion is an American Monument to bravery and valor.
This everlasting memory raises this almost propaganda-esque drama to
represent the second world war for many. Encompassing idealism, each
battle is in turn more personal, especially as our troops move forward
towards victory. Spielberg places us in the middle of treachery using t
he staff translator as our untested ears and eyes. I believe this is
Speilbergs' sincere thank you to WWII Veterans shows regular young men
being extraordinary, yet a moral dilemma of one man's life being worth
many others will always remain at the heart of the film. A truly worthy
battalion of actors were chosen and the battle cinematography was
horrifyingly breathtaking.

******
25 March 2013
9
Saving Private Ryan is a fantastic movie with a brilliant story line,an
outstanding cast and inspired characters.The cast in this movie are all
fantastic,but of course the best performance is the leading role,Tom
Hanks,one of the greatest actors of all time,and if you liked him in
previous films hes been in,you'll love him in this,he plays Captain
Miller with great passion from start to finish,and this movies also one
of Steven Spielbergs finest directing jobs,the movie looks
magnificent,fifteen years later and it still looks great.Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) and several other soldiers are sent out
during the war to find Private Ryan (Matt Damon) who's three brothers
were killed in battle.

******
10 March 2013
10
This movie goes directly in depth with actual views of the war. It is a
very strong and emotional movie that should be seen to see the full
effects of war and the toll it has on a person's mental stability.WARNING: THE FOLLOWING TEXT CONTAINS SPOILERSThere are many heart-wrenching moments in this movie, like the death of
most of the rescue squad at the ending of the movie. Most of the
characters also have a background, like Miller who is a teacher before
being dragged into the war.All in all, the movie is terrific and I give it a full 10/10, one of
Spielberg's best.

******
9 March 2013
8
Removing the half-hour Normandy scene that is so gorgeous and realistic
... Removing the first half-hour of Normandy scene shows us the face of
brutal war ... Captain Miller and his soldiers to save a man, What is
the rationale to risk the lives of eight people? and set out the
question. After arduous struggles to recover from a person is going to
sacrifice many soldiers. Private Ryan, Captain John Miller died, and
his life is affected by what you told him right on the bridge trying to
... Of course, every human life is very important of course. Effort to
save the life of a human being is the place many people are justified.
However, later stages of the film's ask ourselves the following
questions: - Does Every human being deserves to live? German soldiers
taken captive by digging pits to stay alive unless he knew he was going
to die what a thought-provoking work to gain time is not it? So, no
matter which side of human life, how important ... Of course, like I
thought Upham beginning ... Captain John Miller thought so ... But we
have seen that in a future, some people say that life is not so
important ... This means that some people do not deserve to live for
akıllanmadıkları, they should die ... Captain John Miller captured but
allowed to live by the freed us to think and question referred to the
killing of German soldiers are shot dead by ... Directed by Steven
Spielberg film that deserves a realistic production until the end of
the Oscars ... 10 out of 10 points.

******
5 March 2013
9
This film really puts you in the scene of the D-Day beaches, obviously
with a amazing director such as Steven Spielberg who has directed my
favourite films; it was bound to be good; but it really surprised me by
how good it actually was. The acting was great; but with actors such as
Tom Hanks and Matt Damon I expected none the less. This film is very
emotional as it makes you stop and think about the soldiers that died
in D-day; It also has sad parts in it when friends die e.c.t. This film
has amazingly realistic special effects and make up yet is quite gory.
I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys war/action films 10/10
times.

******
31 January 2013
7
Saving Private Ryan is technically impressive and well acted war film
by Spielberg. I like Steven Spielberg as a director and he makes
quality films, but when tries to make something about war and complex
subject matters, he falls flat. His most successful "serious" film is
Munich. I don't like emotional manipulation in a serious drama. I'm OK
with it in a blockbuster or a kids film, but not in a film about
Holocaust, Wold War II and so on.I liked the technical aspects of Saving Private Ryan but whenever the
story and characters showed up, it was like a nails on a chalkboard.The cast, like in any Spielberg picture, is great. We have Tom Hanks,
Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Giovanni Ribisi, Paul
Giamatti, Vin Diesel and Matt Damon. They provide good performances and
bring some depth to the characters.There are two impressive set pieces in the film. One is the opening
sequence in the Normandy beach and the other is the battle in the small
French town. They are flawlessly executed and give this fluff a sense
of realism. While I do prefer the action scenes in Bullet in the Head
better, but that's because John Woo and Vietnam War is a great
combination.My problem with Saving Private Ryan is the fact that it's way too
schmaltzy. Spielberg loves to manipulate his audience and the movie
cynics like me, doesn't like it. Keep your goo and schmaltz for Korean
romantic films not war films...Saving Private Ryan like many other Spielberg important films just
doesn't interest me. I hope that Empire of the Sun is going to be
better. I like it better when Spielberg makes blockbuster entertainment
not Oscar bait like War Horse, Lincoln, Amistad, The Color Purple and
what ever.

******
23 December 2012
6
The production of this movie is epic. It's hard to believe that it was
made on 70 million dollars, but that was 15 years ago. The story is unusual in that US military goes out of its way to
extricate a certain private Ryan from the battle field at any cost
because his family has lost 3 brothers to war already. It sends in a
squad of infantry men into Normandy to find and save private Ryan. While the intent is noble, the wisdom doesn't make much sense. If Ryan
dies, that's only one man, but the entire squadron is under danger of
losing their lives in the attempt.This movie could have been 30 - 60 minutes shorter, and would have been
better focused. Some of the battle ground scenes are the most realistic ever caught on
film.The movie leaves you feeling somewhat empty because of the foolish
nature of the war, and a human drama that at its core doesn't make much
sense. Like in lifeguard course we learn that if the rescue is too
dangerous, it's OK to abandon rescue because one dead person is better
than a two dead people. The military's decision in this movie totally
goes against this wisdom.You be the judge of the outcome.

******
17 December 2012
8
I'm not quite sure how it has taken me almost 15 years to watch Saving
Private Ryan. Somehow I guess I just never got round to it. Well I
finally did and was left with mixed feelings.Far more experienced movie critics and war experts than me have
extolled the opening scene. So there's little more that I can add. It's
power to shock and sadden surpasses almost anything I've seen before it
and for that alone the film has earned its place in movie history.Of course the downside is that if it surpassed so much before it, then
it inevitably also surpassed the 100 or so minutes that followed it.
I'll forgive that though. Ultimately in the story of the Normandy beach
landings, the landings were the beginning and so although it's not
perfect from a movie perspective, it's the only way to tell it. I did
though find much of the rest of SPR remarkably standard. Yes the acting
was excellent. However the characters were distinct caricatures. The
bitter Jew, the loyal lieutenant, the brash New Yorker and the good guy
medic. They were all finely portrayed but their characters brought
nothing new to the screen. It was only Jeremy Davies' interpreter who
could have come from superior war films such as Platoon or Full Metal
Jacket (or even the vastly different but more cerebral The Thin Red
Line, which SPR overshadowed).My other issue is the portrayal of those damn Germans. Inglourious
Bastards revels in it's over the top portrait of just about every
German during WWII being Satan's sidekick. However that film has its
tongue firmly in cheek. SPR does not and the German soldier who is let
free by Tom Hanks' super hero captain ("he'll be picked up soon
enough"), and then returns as the face of the enemy is pure Hollywood
cliché.Don't get me wrong, SPR was a fine film. The opening is shocking and
the remainder is thoroughly enjoyable. The caricatures which prevented
it from matching the greats also offer a large degree of comfort. They
allow us to feel like we know all these characters and emphasise with
them immediately, with little effort. Spielberg paints by numbers in
the last battle scene though, it being all too predictable to fully
believe any battle in any war ever quite happened like that. It's for
this reason that in the context of the great war films (or the few I've
seen to date), I'd say it falls a little short.

******
4 December 2012
7
This is a perfect film, for those who want to watch a war/action film
that shows the reality of war during world war 2. An easy to follow,
but still interesting plot leads no viewers confused or bored
throughout. The director was able to capture the violence and brutality
of the film in the first 15 min of the film, and is able to continue
those themes. Tom Hanks' performance adds the the realism of the
characters, making them seem more like real people rather than
Hollywood action heroes, but adding in an theme of unity/band between
the squad. Overall it is a film great for understanding the horrors of
war, and for its action. However the plot does seem quite linear and is
not very complex.

******
22 October 2012
10
War films have been made earlier and will be made till eternity. But
'Saving Private Ryan' will have the image of what Gandhi has today
(Irony intended.). This has set a standard so high that I think it
would nearly be Impossible to have a portrayal better than this,
especially the first 30 minute scene. Now this first part is what the
world recognized thoroughly and it deserves that. But the second and
the major part of the story is equally amazing. The film captures the
journey of a group of 8 people who set out to find out another of their
comrade named- "James Ryan.". They have to travel all the way to him
just to deliver the message that all his brothers are dead and that he
is relieved from duty. During their journey they encounter snipers,
moral dilemmas etc. the idea of 8 people putting their lives at stake
for just one person, is an intriguing story and to supplement that you
will see a hell lot of action. This is a film not to be missed.PROS: Spielberg is a man who does things with huge perfection. There are many
ways to see this film. One might see it as a nice action film in which
people are assigned a task and they accomplish it by fighting a lot of
people. It's the simplest way to put it. But the other way to see it is
in a question format. First the question arises as to why 8 people were
sent on a near suicide mission to find just one person. Why can't let
the war finish. And if he is alive, let him be relieved. But then here
comes morality. The superficial answer to the question is that the
mother who has already lost 3 of her sons and so her only son should
not be risked. So in a way we are taking quantity to be the major
factor in here. The analytical reason to send them on such a mission is
left to the viewer to decide on his own. Some might say that it is just
a form of duty. Correct. Some will say that loss of 4 compared with
loss of 1 or 2 is greater. OK. Some might think that a person who has
lost his three brothers is more eligible to leave the war than any
other, because his grief is higher. OK. So in a way this first question
is a direct check on how you view rules of lives or your perception
towards human decisions. I would say this is a perfect question and
portrayed in the best ways. Second question is direct and is asked by
the team people themselves. They are perfectly right in their thinking.
Are their lives not as important as any other one who is fighting?
People who watched carefully from the starting and thought about the
first question nicely, they will be counter attacked by this phase of
the film. Isn't it intriguing, to have included the viewer so closely
in a film? During this second phase, the team is under a lot of
emotional turmoil. They want to abandon the mission. From this moment
the third question starts. Which is  'is doing the duty and obeying
orders so important that you put your lives at risk?' While most will
say to this question that they are doing the duty for the country. But
keeping myself in their positions, I feel too much agitated about the
objective of the mission. Why should I risk my life for this purpose?
None of them were reluctant in doing their duty for the country but the
objective of this mission stirred them. Next we come across a very
emotional moment when Tom hanks says that he is doing this so that he
completes the mission and can go home peacefully. He says this line
with so much emotion that you will forget everything about the three
questions and look for Ryan yourself.This film has everything for people of all ages. It also has light
humor at appropriate places. The beauty of the war films is that you
have a funny moment and just after that you come across a heartbroken
statement. After watching the film you will definitely get convinced
that war changes people. One other scene that I will never forget is
the authentic knife fight between a US officer and a German officer.
That fight depicts what a person behaves in his last moments of death.
Also I felt sad over the two strange people fighting and killing so
ruthlessly just on some orders.Also I would like to explore the message of the film in detail. Tom
hanks in his last moment says to Ryan  'Earn it.' These two words
alone have a lot of depth. The inner meaning of the word is that the
life is wonderful. One should make good use of it.MESSAGE: "Earn your Life." VERDICT: "A must watch."

******
15 August 2012
10
This movie is just amazing, in a general sense. The effects, story,
sound, everything. One of my favorite movies ever made. However, this
movie is definitely not for everyone. The gore and violence is
extremely present, and may disturb some viewers. Also, the ending is
very emotional, as are most deaths in this film. The whole overtone of
the movie is also extremely dreary and bleak. A very good film, though
not for everyone. But, if you can handle it, it is guaranteed to be one
of the best movies you have ever seen. This movie is right up there
with other great films, like The Shawshank redemption, The godfather,
and Apocalypse Now

******
22 May 2012
10
This film is absolutely amazing. The mix of emotions and action scenes
is perfect and the feel of the film is breathtaking. There are so many
different ways to explain how I felt watching the film.The acting was also flawless. Each soldier have their own personality
and the characters really stand out. Tom Hanks played the leader role
in his group and you can literally see his respect and care he has for
his comrades as well as his leadership. Tom Hanks isn't the only star
of the film. Every actor was immaculate and perfect. Usually in war and
action films, parts can look fake when people are shot or blown up but
I could not see one fault in this area.There is nothing bad about this film; it really is that good. It is
simply amazingJust watch it and you'll agree.

******
13 May 2012
10
Saving Private Ryan (1998) Director  Steven Spielberg Cinematographer
 Janusz Kaminski Writer  Robert Rodat Editor  Michael Kahn Favorite quote  "Captain Miller: James, earn this... earn it." Saving
Private Ryan is an epic war film set during the invasion of Normandy in
World War II. It is a film noted for its graphic and realistic
portrayal of war. Saving Private Ryan opens with a 30-minute cinematic
high intensity tour de force following Captain John Miller
(protagonist) and his team depicting the Omaha Beach Assault on June 6,
1944. It later follows Capt. John Miller and his hand-picked team of
seven other soldiers including one newcomer who have served with him
throughout the war as they search for a paratrooper, Pvt. First Class
James Ryan, who is the last surviving brother of four servicemen.Saving Private James Ryan and bringing him home is Capt. Miller's new
mission and his ticket to be home with his family. Capt. Miller faces
several group of opposing enemies (Germans) and loses his couple of
soldiers on the way to find Pvt. Ryan. The squad finally finds Pvt.
Ryan on the outskirts of Ramelle. Pvt. Ryan is told of his brothers'
deaths, and their mission to bring him home. He is distressed at the
loss of his brothers, but does not feel it is fair to go home looking
at the small band whose duty it was to defend a bridge and destroy an
approaching German mechanized unit. Miller decides to take command and
defend the bridge with what little manpower and resources are
available. Germans arrive in force with more than 50 men supported by
armor. In spite of inflicting heavy German casualties most of the Capt.
Miller's men are killed. While attempting to blow the bridge, Capt.
Miller is shot and morally wounded. He is about to be bombed by a tiger
tank when an American P-51 Mustang (tank destroyer) flies over and
destroys the tank followed by more P-51s and advancing American
infantry. Pvt. Ryan stays with his Captain as he dies and says his last
words.The film ends with the present day Ryan, now a World-War II veteran
standing at Capt. Miller's grave with his family. He asks his wife and
confirms that he is a good man and he has led a good life and thus
worthy of the sacrifice of Capt. Miller and his team.Saving Private Ryan symbolizes the courageous, tough and commanding
persona of an Armed Force Officer and in this case, it's Capt.
Miller's. His will and determination to accomplish his mission is
unquestionable. He loses his life fighting for the assigned mission.
From the very beginning of rattling gun fires and missiles at Omaha
Beach to the very end of his life at the Ramelle Bridge, Capt. John
Miller always proves to be the brave and loyal soldier of his force. Review by  Mayank Bhattacharya

******
4 May 2012
9
friends this is my first post. i'm not a type of guy who'll sit to
write a review for a movie, not at all i'm too lazy for that; but this
movie has compelled me into writing all this. this movie is simply
awesome,rather i would say its magic,it just blew me away.spielberg is
a magician, he didn't make me see the movie he actually made me live
it; u can feel the characters, their pain, their sorrow everything.he
has shown it how movies should be made.and tom hanks, u know what this
man is capable of and he also truly has shown his class. i think this
movie needs no rating actually it can not be rated, so just make sure u
see for urself what a masterpiece it is.

******
25 April 2012
9
Usually, I don't take the time to review films, because it's pretty
pointless trying to argue with all the fools who gave this film a bad
rating, but this time I really think it needs some backing up. I've
watched some pretty violent, gory films before but this was the first
one where I actually felt sick. Not because it was so unnecessary, or
because it was overdone, but because it was so damn real. The opening
scene was so intense and realistic, it explains everything about war
that can't be learned just through reading books, studying history or
ever looking at old photos. The way the sound muffles to show the
audience shell shock, and people lying in the background screaming for
their mothers. It's a bit overwhelming, but better that than completely
fake. What I really want to point out is that in order for the audience
to want the main characters to succeed, there needs to be some purpose
to the film, hence the storyline of a small group of soldiers searching
for the last of four sons. Otherwise it wouldn't have the emotion or
engagement of the audience that was intended. Also, when people
complain about it being unrealistic, yes the story is fiction, but how
do you know something like that never did happen? Maybe there was one
German they let live, who returned later to kill their comrades. Maybe
they did send a tank through a small alley. I'd like to point out that
the film is in the eyes of American soldiers. It's meant to portray how
they saw the war, how the enemy looked in their eyes. Basically, if you
didn't want to see any of the slight exaggerations or sympathy to the
Americans, go watch a documentary on war, not an incredibly realistic
movie.

******
25 March 2012
10
Spielberg directed this epic war film in 1998. It stars Tom Hanks as
Capitan John Miller, Matt Damon as Private James Ryan. Ryan is only
surviving son of mother and government decide to call him back. They
give this mission to John Miller and his companions. Then the chase
begins.Before watching it I heard many positive reviews about this movie. When
I watched it I said: "Yeah, they are right". I have seen many films
about war, but this is definitely something extraordinary. This is
probably the most innovative war film of all time. It has great
cultural impact. Spielberg created famous game Medal of Honor after
this. Then it influenced some films like Black Hawk Down and s. After
13-14 years this film still have its effect on people.At Oscars film was nominated for 11 Oscars including Bes Picture and
Director. It won Best Director for Spielberg, but it lost BP to
Shakespeare in Love. Everyone was shocked. This is probably the
greatest Oscar upset of modern times and of course, another Spielberg
snub.Watch and Enjoy!!!!!

******
27 February 2012
7
Since the popularising of pacifism in the 1960s, the war movie has
largely existed only to convey anti-militarist sentiment. But by 1998
there hadn't been a major decent one of those for years, and it was
time for another makeover. Saving Private Ryan harks back to the
genre's peak in the late 40s and early 50s, when war movies were
exciting pictures about heroism and unquestionable moral reasoning.
However, the intervening time in cinematic and social development can't
be ignored, and so this time around combat must be realistically
hellish, and there has to be some kind of philosophical questioning
going on.This is all very well, but Saving Private Ryan is also very much part
of the modern era's blockbuster strand, and it seems a conflict between
brutal realism and cornball simplicity. In between the battle scenes
there is some woefully clichéd dialogue and dramatically flat moments.
Characters like Upham are just lazily-written stereotypes, and the
point-making about the perils of showing mercy to the Germans is
heavy-handed. Then there's the John Williams score, which is just like
so many other overblown and slightly smug-sounding John Williams
scores. You wouldn't think a musical score could be condescending, but
this one is.Director Steven Spielberg won his second Oscar for Saving Private Ryan.
As with Schindler's List, the frequency and arbitrariness of the
killing soon makes us desensitised to it, and immerses us in a world
where randomised death is a constant threat. And Spielberg clearly
knows how to balance this. For example, about halfway through the
battle we see Hanks and his men gradually making some headway. The
troops aren't dropping like flies anymore, but the sheer brutality of
the previous ten minutes means we never forget the danger the men are
in. But the trouble is Spielberg occasionally resorts to techniques
like slow-motion and sound distortion, putting the experience upon us
in a way that feels obviously artificial, as oppose to letting the
images draw us in. And he makes a basic error, I feel, in showing a few
point-of-view shots from the German gun positions. Surely the whole
point of this scene (and the movie in general) is keeping us with the
US troops and never being objective, and yet Spielberg violates his own
premise.And yet this is overall a well-made piece and there remains much to
like. Despite the weaknesses in the screenplay's minutiae, its odyssey
structure gives it a powerful sweep and makes up for the deficits in
characterisation. The picture gains resonance is it goes along, and to
my mind the later battle sequence at Ramille with its eerie sound
effects and man-versus-tank dynamics, is superior to the opening one.
Saving Private Ryan is not without its flaws, but it is enough to
reinvigorate a genre that was starting to flag.

******
29 November 2011
10
You could see all the effort that was put into this movie. As amazing a
movie it is, it wouldn't be nearly half as good without the technical
decisions that were put into this movie. From the deep emotions and
feelings, to the action packed battle scenes, every part was
beautifully depicted with Spielberg's technical skills.There's no doubt that the opening invasion scene left viewers
entranced, and possibly with their mouths wide open. The fast cuts,
character actions, camera movements, and camera placement all
contributed to portraying the horrific details of war. Blood was
everywhere, bombs were going off in every direction, bullets whizzed
past everyone. Special effects were A+ everywhere. Switching from shots
of units to shots of near-death individuals, the film made sure viewers
knew exactly what was happening.After the rifles have cooled down a bit towards the middle of the film,
Spielberg started to employ calmer camera shots and movements. Shots
were slower but nevertheless effective. One may never even notice the
cuts, as the shots are fluid and 'invisible'. This shows Spielberg is
still taking consideration into these shots but is avoiding anything
unnecessary. From low angles to close ups, the viewer involuntarily
receives the messages Spielberg wants to convey.Almost the whole film was actually a flashback, which the viewer learns
towards the end. The low angle shot of Pvt Ryan(Matt Damon) beautifully
dissolves into a low angle shot of Grandpa Ryan. (not his grandpa) This
ties everything together; the old man in the very beginning was
actually Ryan who visited the grave of Cpt Miller(Tom Hanks) and had a
flashback of the war, which was followed by him coming back to the
present. How Spielberg made the actual film in this manner provided
such a stronger impact on the viewer towards the end than if it wasn't
a flashback at all.

******
29 November 2011
9
Yes, Saving Private Ryan (1998) by Steven Spielberg is a war film but
it can be seen as much more than that. Throughout the film, Spielberg
placed a great emphasis on the emotional and psychological effects that
a war can place on soldiers. Captain Miller's platoon is put through
several situations that cause them to lose loved ones and throw morals
out the window as their mentality about life changes. Their grueling
lives are shown to be an example of the real aspects of war and let
people around the world think differently.As the soldiers are placed on Normandy beach, they have a hatred for
the German soldiers that can be seen throughout the battlefield. Some
soldiers yelled "Don't shoot, Let them Burn" while others shot the
"enemy" point blank even when the Germans surrendered. No mercy was
given. The soldiers lost their human nature and became angry killing
machines. Their hatred blinded them from seeing that the Germans were
human beings also who were, in some cases, ordered to be on the
battlefield. Just as American soldiers were drafted into the war.In a later scene where Private Wade dies, the effects of the war are
seen taking a toll on the soldier. Several soldiers hit, torture, and
ridicule the German soldier for killing one of their beloved members.
Imagine watching one of your good friend dying in front of you. That
moment will have a great impact on you since you will be living with
that memory forever. These soldiers had to face this moment so rage
overcomes them to hurt the German soldier. Even when the German
desperately tries to relate to the Americans by singing American songs
and chanting "F--- Hitler" and the captain lets him go, some of the
soldiers still want revenge. The hardship of the war is psychologically
affecting them. Their hatred begins to build and build to the point
where the soldiers yell back and forth while holding the other at gun
point. The tension just keeps rising.The last battle scene showed a great representation of the effects of
the war and showed a change in some of the characters attitude. After
the frustration of losing two soldiers, Private Reiben was livid when
Private Ryan didn't want to leave his post. Edward Burns (Reiben) gave
an excellent performance of this frustration that his character later
turned into a brotherhood. He began to let go of the hatred to fight
side by side with Ryan as did the other soldiers to successfully
protect the bridge. When Corporal Upham shoots the German soldier, who was let free from
the Wade scene, was a special moment in the last battle scene. I think
that Upham was a representation of innocence being deteriorated by war.
Throughout the film, Upham was the morally right character who believed
in doing things the right way. He had a special innocence during the
war. But after seeing the soldier shoot the captain, that innocence is
gone. At this point, he begins to see the life of war for what it
really is. Upham gains a war mentality and kills the German soldier.
With no regrets.This film was a medium to let viewers get a peek of the lives of
soldiers in wars. But I also feel that this film ask important
questions like, When considering the amount of deaths, is war really
the answer?

******
22 November 2011
10
What a breathtaking film. You honestly know exactly what these soldiers are feeling, it's
unbelievable. I've never sat through a 3-hour movie without being
bored. Well, this was the first time I was not bored. Whenever there
wasn't war action, there was emotionally touching moments that grabbed
your attention even more. Just...wow. Also, most of the battle scenes
were incredibly accurate. The first scene, "D-Day" was EXTREMELY
accurate that my old history teacher let us watch it for an accurate
depiction. After doing the research, almost the whole 20 minute scene
was historically accurate. I don't want to spoil anything, but it's well worth the 3 hours. One of
my favorite movies of all time. Fantastic film10/10

******
9 November 2011
8
First off, I absolutely loved this movie the first time I saw it, and I
still love it. The first hour of the movie is about as real of a
depiction of war as Hollywood can get, and to this day I have not seen
a more realistic and justifiably gruesome and wrenching depiction of
war. Probably one of the most intense moments of the movie is not when
the actual fighting is happening, but when the letters are being
written to the families of the deceased soldiers, and the subsequent
visit to the Ryan farm. The last hour or so of the movie was a little
over the top for me, considering how Spielberg had made the first hour
of combat seem so believable, but I digress. The soundtrack is
excellent, and the style of filming is vintage Spielberg. The length of
the movie a nearly three hours may discourage some of the viewers, but
this one is definitely worth it.

******
31 October 2011
10
Saving Private Ryan is a very fast paced war movie with lots battle
scenes throughout. One of the best war movie ever released in modern
cinematic history. This is Spielberg's best film along with Minority
Report, Jurassic Park, Jaws and Schindler's List. The look of it is
phenomenal, and th acting is very well done. Tom Hanks is really at the
top of his game in this epic. His best performance since his role in
the movie Forrest Gump. And every scene is shot with very well shot and
the filmmakers payed very close attention to detail. Although the movie
is not historically accurate, it does give you some insight on how
brutal World War II was. If you have not seen this movie yet, rent it
or buy it right away. Saving Private Ryan is a true masterpiece..

******
31 October 2011
8
Saving Private Ryan was a well made film by Spielberg that was
researched throughly. The action scenes, dramatic scenes, and other
scenes actively portrayed what war was actually like during World War
2. While in real life an individual named private Ryan did not exist,
the director makes you feel everything that the troops are feeling
through use of sight and sound. This film in my opinion is a classic
that all generations must witness. This movie is not for children
however due to graphic content. Viewers must be aware of excessive
violence, language, and sadness. All but three individuals in the film
are fictionouse and do not, nor have exsited. All similarities between
characters portrayed in the film and individuals in life are simply
coninscidence.

******
26 October 2011
9
This film deserves the title of film. It is not just a movie. Steven
Spielberg does an excellent job of instilling historical accuracy. He
made it a priority and it paid off. Saving Private Ryan is a movie that
will stand the test of time. I could show this to someone who knew
nothing of world war 2 and they would be quickly caught up on the
things that happened. The characters portrayed the actual feelings of
soldiers during the time. Most soldiers were scared and unsure. Most
war movies portray fearless and unquestioning soldiers, which is not
accurate. After the Sullivan brothers this type of situation was more
common. This is informative yet interesting. It is not dry like most
other informative pieces. This is also addresses the fact that most
veterans are still affected by the war.

******
25 October 2011
9
Saving Private Ryan is an incredibly good movie. Not only was it
historically accurate, it was very entertaining. Tom Hanks and Matt
Damon performed very well. The accuracy during the opening scene when
Normandy was attacked was very well shot. Most movies I've seen are
inaccurate because so many things go the way of the heroes. Saving
Private Ryan took me by surprise because it shows the constant
struggle, both physically, mentally, emotionally etc. Event though the
story might not have happened as far as soldiers saving Private Ryan,
it is a very good story and can be thought of as a great movie in my
opinion. Saving Private Ryan will be added to my collection of my
all-time favorites! Tom Hanks has got me interested in World War Two

******
25 October 2011
9
This movie was an awesome representation of D-Day and supplemental
missions. I thought that the although 'fake' mission to save Private
Ryan was also fairly accurate. People do not realize that war was a
terrible place to be and that many people did not die as quickly and
peacefully as other movies depict. I also must commend the director for
portraying the character of Upham. Spielberg created a character that
everyone absolutely hated. The screenplay as well as cinematic feel of
the movie were better than any other movie to date in my opinion. The
inaccuracies of the movie do not take away from the story and are all
just minor things that most people overlook. The major flaws are not
even that big of a deal, just things with emblems and the such. All in
all, this movie shows a fairly accurate portrayal of WWII.

******
25 October 2011
9
This film deserves historical recognition. Private Ryan's story is
loosely based on the story of the Niland brothers. The Niland brothers
all went into the war, and only two of the four survived. When our guys
landed on the beach, Steven Spielburg did an excellent job at making it
realistic. He didn't have all of our guys ready to fight and kill the
Germans; he showed that some or the soldiers wouldn't have been able to
handle it. He showed their fear. He also did a very good job of making
us not like the translator. I liked how Speilburg ran the story line of
actually going out and saving Private Ryan. This way, the audience got
a chance to connect with the characters, and it gave the death of Wade
in particular a lot more of an impact. Like all war movies, they got
stuff wrong. Some of the weapons fired more than they would have been
capable of the time period, or blew up before they got hit. I think Tom
Hanks did an incredible job of playing his role, and that the audience
was able to pick up on that. Also, the ending was a complete blind
side. I thought for sure the old guy in the beginning was Captain
Miller because of how they introduced him, and to find out that it was
actually Private Ryan who survived caught me completely off guard. I
also thought that it was ironic that the soldier who wanted to leave
the mission was the only one out of the eight to survive. All in all, I
would recommend this movie to anyone who wants to learn more about how
combat on D-Day actually went. Saving Private Ryan had to be one of my
favorite war movies of all time.

******
25 October 2011
10
I liked this movie a lot. I was really into it because of how action
packed it was. Also it was very realistic. Now that i have seen this
movie i have a better idea of how the war was, and what kind of bad
things happened. I liked how it portrayed the soldiers being scared and
nerves. I also thought found it kind of interesting that the main
character Tom Hanks dies at the end of the movie. I did not see that
coming. I also like the story line itself. I liked how they had to go
find private ryan. The movie changed my moods a lot because of how
realistic it was. At some points in the movie i wanted to cry. Now that
i have seen this movie i understand why some people that served in the
war did not want to see this movie, or had to walk out during it. Most
of the movie was very accurate. I think this is a good movie to show to
people if you're trying to show them how the war was, and some of the
horrible things that happened in it. This movie was great and i rated
it ten stars. I would love to watch it again.

******
25 October 2011
7
I found this movie to be enjoyable even though there are some
historical inaccuracies. I feel that this movie does an incredible job
of portraying the landing at Omaha. Even though the portrayal is not
exactly how it happened, it gives the audience a glimpse of what it was
like to be storming the beach. I felt that Spielberg did a good job in
the way that he showed the explosions. In a lot of movies when a bomb
goes off its just a big fireball. When bombs and artillery hit things
in this movie debris actually falls and it looks a little more
realistic. Another thing that a lot of war movies get wrong is that
they show people die automatically after being shot. In this movie not
everyone dies instantaneously after being shot, which in my eyes is
more war-like. Another aspect I thought this movie did right was the
amount of ammunition. You always see guys in movies shoot constantly
without reloading or running out of ammo. For example, when the one
German soldier comes up the stairs a hand to hand battle ensues because
the two Americans were out of ammo. You can pick any movie apart if you
look for errors. The big picture is what counts and this movie is
accurate in the way it depicts war for the most part.

******
25 October 2011
8
This is one of the greatest war movies I have ever seen. I feel they
did a really good job portraying the emotions of the people. The
opening scene was amazing with how realistic he got it to be, with them
throwing up in the boat and getting shot before they got off the boat.
I like how they made the towns look old and made replicas and what not
of the tanks and weapons they used. I also like how when they finally
found private ryan he wouldn't leave his squad behind and that he would
stay there and fight the enemy. I was really surprised in the end when
cpt. Miller died because it was one of those things you don't expect to
happen.

******
25 October 2011
9
I thought that this movie was a great change of pace. The DDay scene
was a great depiction of what actually happened on that day. It showed
how the soldiers acted, and most of the people today would be very
surprised to see that. I thought searching for Private Ryan was a great
story line. You got to know the characters and really understand what
soldiers felt when they went into battle. Saving Private Ryan is one of
my favorite movies because of its real life action scenes. They
actually have to reload in most movies it seems like no one is
reloading and no one misses. Saving Private Ryan shows them running out
of ammo, missing close shots, and throwing your helmet because that is
the first thing that comes to mind. That is why i think that Saving
Private Ryan is such a good movie.

******
29 August 2011
8
Well, in most of the reviews written about this movie, you can find one
thing in common i.e the first 30 minutes of war scene depiction. No
doubt that is one of the best ever war depictions ever made. We've
never been to any war to vouch for something as real. But the first few
minutes of the movie looks like straight from the battleground. A sheer
raw terror is unleashed. The story is all about saving one person whose all three brothers are
dead. According to a policy of the US government, the lone survivor of
the family should be saved. The whole movie shows the efforts of the
U.S troops to find out the person. There is some amount of banality in the movie. But overall the movie is
a good one and considered one of the best war movies ever made.

******
29 August 2011
9
Wow wow wow - "purely awesome" movie. This is one heck of a war movie.
The first 27 minutes, well, it deserves all the praise it gets and
more. I just cannot imagine or believe how the scene was shot; as if
they have laid cameras in real war zone.Movie filled with so many good scenes - another rarity. One disturbing
scene that is still lingering in my mind is the killing of 'Adam
Goldberg'; it had me in shock, fear and tears. Steven Spielberg - you
can surely count me in as your fan; this is my first review of a movie
in public view and that says how much I was moved after seeing the
movie.

******
12 August 2011
9
Now that really doesn't mean much, as of now I have only seen four REAL
war movies, Inglorious Besterds, Shindler's List, Hurt Locker, and
this. And of those four, the only two that involve combat in the field
are Hurt Locker and this, and I hated Hurt Locker. That being said, I
still loved this movie.For one it was shot perfectly, the scenes that don't involve fighting
are nice and still, and the scenes that have fighting have just a
little shaky cam, not too much to make me angry and dizzy. Tom Hanks
and Matt Damon are great, as well as the rest of the cast. THe
production value is very hight, every explosion is great, and most
importanly, I was never bored.Every thing kept my interest, the fighting, the struggles of the crew,
by the end, I actually wished it had been a little longer, and that is
the sign of a very good flick.

******
15 June 2011
10
Well, the trailers and poster are very misleading. Though before seeing
this movie, I read the content advisory, and even though it said that
this movie is extremely violent, I was kind of expecting a positive
energy from the characters throughout the film. Boy, was I wrong.
Still, though, I like really depressing and serious movies.Major spoiler: I love movies where one character dies for another. I
find it absolutely moving. I loved how in this movie, Hanks didn't die
to save Damon, but died to teach him to be a better man.Critically, this movie was amazing. The acting was fantastic. The
writing was very well-done. The characters, while they could have been
developed a little bit better, were still developed just fine in my
opinion. The directing was great. Overall, this movie is very moving
and I recommend it to everyone who can sit through blood and guts.

******
6 June 2011
10
The first half an hour of Saving Private Ryan is pure cinematic
brilliance. Bullets whoosh past, soldiers search through the blood
drenched sea bed for their broken limb, cry for their mums as their
guts squeeze out of their stomach. It's scarily realistic, mentally
scarring and utterly compelling. Although the rest of the film doesn't
reach the dizzy heights the first 20 minutes managed to, it comes damn
near close.Tom Hanks once again shows his charisma, versatility and range,in the
role of Capt.Miller assuring us still that he is one of the best a-list
actors around. The supporting cast more than match him, the pick of the
bunch being Tom Sizemore as a reliable Sergeant. Spielberg's ambition and emotionally resonant directing makes sure that
this film hits all the right footnotes, from unflinching battle scenes
to emotional speeches. The only thing that holds this back is the
script's nack of sneaking slightly into sentiment, especially in the
prologue and the epilogue. But that is just a minor bum note in an
ultimately groundbreaking, powerful war movie classic.

******
1 June 2011
9
Truly a war film for the ages. The battles are long, bloody, and
intense. In between, each scene is loaded with tension and suspense. In
every scene, there's immaculate detail that showcases war (and the
battle of Omaha beach specifically) in the most realistic light
possible. It's close to three hours long, but at least half of it is
devoted to the incredible battle sequences. A combination of stylistic
cameramanship and sound effects help immerse the audience in the shoes
of the soldiers, and it has to be seen to be experienced.The story for this is fine and dandy, and is a serviceable platform for
shuffling the characters along their journey. It's also integral for
diving into some strong themes concerning the war, the human spirit,
and philosophy. The film takes every intellectual advantage of the
story's nuances, and with a cast of quality characters, the film does
have plenty of strengths.One problem I have is the plausibility of the story. No way in heck
would the Army risk eight men to rescue one, regardless of the
circumstance. Surely, if they did this for Ryan, why not everybody else
suffering from losses? Then, who would be left to fight? Singling out
one soldier just never made sense to me. Incidentally, it didn't make
sense to the story's characters either, and as they discuss and find
the value in the issue, the story works in its own bizarre way.Additionally, the scene in the middle of the film (where the soldiers
charge after a target of opportunity) struck me as dumb and
unnecessary. The main character became uncharacteristically arrogant at
this point, and the scene overall felt out-of-place. I almost suspect
that it could have been removed from the film completely. I'm also not
fond of the film's commemorative beginning and closing; it strikes me
as manipulative and overly-sentimental.Otherwise, the film is exceptionally strong. Despite some herky-jerky
cameramanship, I do love the photography throughout; there are lots of
intimate close-ups and interesting long-shots, they are all full of
detail. Acting is really good; Tom Hanks is the man, Tom Sizemore is
not bad, Edward Burns is cool, I loved Barry Pepper's role, Matt Damon
is surprisingly strong, and it's interesting seeing Vin Diesel in the
mix. Writing has a lot of interesting and bright moments. Production
value is very strong, with highly-detailed and seemingly-realistic
sets, props, costumes, locations, vehicles, weapons, and everything.
Music is a little overly-sentimental at times, but good in other parts.Recommended.4.5/5 (entertainment: 4.5/5, story: 3.5/5, film: 5/5)

******
29 May 2011
10
Steven Spielberg's biggest hit to date is the epic war film, "Saving
Private Ryan". The film follows around eight men in World War II,
saving one soldier, whose three brothers were killed, and is the only
brother alive. The film has powerful scenes of war and drama that
teaches us the horror and drama of the war. Only Steven Spielberg, and
his brilliant cast including Tom Hanks, Edward Burns, & Matt Damon, can
bring an amazing motion picture that takes a deep step closer and
closer until the film has its reaching point. Tom Hanks delivers one of
his best performances of his whole career, Edward Burns was pretty
impressive for his role, and Matt Damon had the shortest scenes in the
whole movie, but those were good scenes. Steven Spielberg always
delivers fine directing in all of his movie, but this one takes the
cake. Everything about this movie, from the incredible cinematography,
the intense film editing, to the explosive sound, "Saving Private Ryan"
was one heck of a thrill. Though the war scenes were long and graphic,
that does not stop the film's power. This film happens to be one of
Spielberg's best movies yet. Also, the movie felt like a moving
bio-diary of the many soldiers losing their lives in World War II. The
movie felt personal, moving, emotional, and there are so many things to
say about this movie, that I don't have time to say it all. This movie
will always be a piece of history to me. Steven Spielberg really knows
how to make a dramatic, well-acted war movie with a heart. "Saving
Private Ryan", in my review, "Emotionally powerful, and completely
excellent."

******
2 May 2011
9
Seeing this movie at home does not do it justice. I remember being
speechless and overcome with emotion at the end of the Omaha Beach
landing. It was such a spectacle to see on the big screen at the cinema
that I went to watch it on back-to-back nights. Spielberg does a
fantastic job of putting you right in the middle of one of the most
remembered and heroic days in American history. Those who do not have
an appreciation for our fighting forces and the freedom they have
provided us with will undoubtedly change their tune after the first 30
minutes of Saving Private Ryan.Saving Private Ryan is truly one of the best movies of the past 25
years. At the time, I did not think Tom Hanks could pull off the
leading role in this movie. I was dead wrong. Hanks' brings a human
element to the movie, which makes it work. Cast anyone else in the role
of Captain Miller and I doubt the movie would have succeeded the way it
did.I am not one to shed a tear during movies, but this one made me cry
several times. Can you, as parents, imagine what it would be like to
find out you lost a loved one during wartime? Well, Spielberg shows
that when Ryan's mother crumbles to the ground at the sight of a priest
coming to her door. What about the older James Francis Ryan dropping to
his knees at the sight of Private Miller's grave? Asking his wife if he
lived up to what Miller and his crew did for him? This is emotional
stuff and at the very core of being a good human being. One who looks
out and cares for others.The ensemble cast of this movie is fantastic. Each brings something
different to the table and it works because Spielberg allows you to
engage and relate with each character. Between battle sequences, you
learn a little about each character, where they are from and who they
are. This is what film making is about and there is none better than
Steven Spielberg.I could go on and on about this movie, but I won't. I would suggest
that everyone watch this movie and become more enlightened about the
horrors of war, how it affects those within it and how these warriors
share a common bond, ultimately making them brothers in arms.

******
16 April 2011
8
Saving Private Ryan is one of the best films of Steven Spielberg's won
5 Oscar etc. neighbor tells of a captain who shows loyalty to his
country, uphold all the duties which it worked, although the task that
does not make sense, save the soldier's mother after the war because
soldiers are all her children died in World War II, Ryan was the last
child, Captain Miller (Tom Hank) show the war is in fact not about
winning but how to achieve victory with the understanding of a task to
do, this is war and they win it. lighting is very professional
Hollywood quality, which together with the film script, the camera
angel looks in a hurry and that's the point of war, the amazing acting
from all actors in touch with how they talk to each other.

******
30 March 2011
10
Saving Private Ryan is a movie that will make you cry. The movie is
based on a true story during the 2nd World War. In the movie, Cpt
Miller and his group of brothers brave the war in a mission that
requires finding Private James Ryan, whose brothers have died in that
violent Normandy beach invasion, and bring him back home to his mother.
In order to find him, the group has to go thorugh hell, just to make
sure that Ryan is found and sent back home.This movie may be disturbing to a lot of audiences, especially the
first 30mins, even I was not prepared for that kind of action when I
first watched it on the big screen. It looked almost real, and I could
feel what the soilders felt when they were part of the 2nd World War.
There are some moments that will make you puke and there are some
moments where you will cry.I will give this movie a full rating, because it deserves it. But it
should have won Best Picture at that year's Academy Awards. But to me,
it is the greatest movie of all time.

******
21 March 2011
10
There's not a person in Hollywood that doesn't know about Steven
Spielberg. This director has dazzled people with masterpieces such as
'Schindler's List', 'Jaws', 'Jurassic Park', 'The Indiana Jones
Trilogy', and 'Amistad'. He's also known today as one of the most
wealthiest filmmakers in the world.Tom Hanks is just an amazing actor. The kind that REALLY puts his soul
towards his character/role and plays towards perfection. He's known for
'Forrest Gump', 'Cast Away', 'The Green Mile', 'Apollo 13', 'Sleepless
in Seattle', and 'Big'.Saving Private Ryan is by far one of the best war films I've seen, as
well as one of Spielberg's best. It features outstanding acting,
terrific cinematography, a powerful storyline, and of course,
Captivating direction.Hanks doesn't disappoint as Captain John Miller. He plays the character
with determination, fear, and dedication. One of the BEST performances
I've seen from him. Matt Damon is great too, in his brief, yet
convincing role. Edward Burns and the rest of the soldiers are simply
terrific.Well-done cinematography is experienced throughout the film. The camera
angles are just so dashing and terrific, that you simply cannot keep
your eyes of this film. 'Horrific, yet gripping and intensifying'.Storyline makes this film what it really is. Its powerful in a brutal
and unforgiving way. I almost cried in the end, but its a true story
and highly realistic in a lot of ways. Unfortunately, its sometimes
painful to watch the war scenes. Bloody and extremely violent scenes,
but again, worth watching.Overall, this film is a must-see and CANNOT be missed by any
movie-goer. The type of impressive direction Spielberg pulls of and
Hank's astonishing performance are BIG TIME watching. Though beware
again, this film is outright bloody, so don't go see it if you don't
like these kind of films.

******
15 March 2011
9
Every casual movie fan knows the notorious first 20 minutes of "Saving
Private Ryan", and rightfully so. This introduction is just absolutely
breath-taking, World War II has never been so close and in your face.
However, a thing that's regularly ignored is that the other 120 minutes
are really just as good. The characters are all pretty compelling, even
Vin Diesel's performance is very convincing. You really manage to get
to know all these people throughout the second act and you can
sympathize with all of them, which in a way is kind of a bummer when
they start dying on us. Screenwriter Robert Rodat puts in a whole bunch
of war movie clichés (the inevitable emotional highlight!), but let's
be honest, who doesn't love war movie clichés? I wouldn't say this is
the definitive World War II movie because there's no such thing, but it
does provide some really interesting angles.

******
14 March 2011
8
Regarded as one of the best war films ever made, it certainly
qualifies. The opening twenty minutes are still as breathtaking,
shocking and disturbing realistic as they were back in 1998. It is hard
to imagine that it has now been over twelve years since Saving Private
Ryan broke the mold of World War II film making.Winner of five Academy Awards, including Best Director for Spielberg,
Best Cinematography, and Sound, which was astonishing, even by today's
standards, it failed to win Best Picture, losing out to Shakespeare In
Love. Shakespeare In Love! Don't get me wrong, it's a good film, but
easily forgettable compared to Ryan, only proving yet again that if you
touch upon the British monarchy you get Oscars.The film is a fictional account of four brothers, all serving in the
U.S. Army, three of which were killed in action on or around the D-Day
landings. The fourth, James Ryan played by Matt Damon is somewhere in
Europe, and Tom Hanks with his platoon are sent to bring him home, to
spare his mother anymore heartache.Tom Hanks, who was also snubbed at the 1998 Oscars for his perfect
performance as Captain Miller, the everyman who was losing himself in
the horrors of war, underplayed his role perfectly. He is believable on
every level, emotionally, physically and has a sense of subtly with
makes him of Hollywood's greats.The action is visceral, gritty and horrifying. But never played for
crass effect. Scenes of soldiers intestines spilling out, limbs flying
a sunder and brutal killing left, right and centre are recreated for
one purpose. To truly demonstrate the horrors of war, and to change our
perceptions of the global conflict which had almost become a joke, a
setting for gung- ho action films, where the Yanks reign supreme and
single-handedly win the war.This shows troops crying, hurting and making decisions which should not
be made under any moral circumstances, but you understand why, whether
you agree or not. There is no doubt that Spielberg is not innocent of
making an American film, but it is about as even-handed as you might
expect, with the exception of Tora! Tora! Tora! or The Longest Day.So, the action is first-rate, graphic and perfectly toned to recreate
to horror of the last century's greatest and most of destructive
conflicts. But that's only half the story.The other half is the talking, reminiscing and the almost sepia tone is
more than a little cloying. The U.S. General's monologues, which seem
to consist almost entirely of Lincoln quotations are overly
sentimental, erring on the side of sloppy patriotism rather than
Jingoism, which is hardly a bad thing but it isn't good either.The civilian scenes, such as Mrs Ryan, washing a plate as she sees the
car drive down to road to inform her of her sons deaths are so
sentimental that they jar against the realism of the war scenes. It's
not so much contrast as it is as extreme as black and white.The action is obviously interspersed, as all war films are, with rest
stops and moments of talking, pondering etc., but the scenes drag on
too long and disrupt the tone of the film. On the other hand, the
direction is brilliant when explaining the situations during and around
the action, but Spielberg seemed to think that we needed these sloppy
and often boring moments, such as The Church, and the outside the cafe
in Ramelle, to express the emotional torment of the characters, but I
think that these scenes are so boring and pointless that I' can hardly
remember them, as my attention drifts off during them! But I do have an
understanding of the soldiers, and this was achieved, quite adorably
without these scenes.Overall, this is a film of two halves if ever there was one. The battle
scenes and the journey through war-torn France are brilliant, gritty
and educational, but the scenes of American sentimentality are in
danger of derailing the whole film. Many feel that is the best war film
of all time. I do not agree, favouring Black Hawk Down over this, but I
would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge that Blank Hawk Down owes a
debt to Saving Private Ryan, by opening the door to the gritty war
dramas of the naughties and to the style itself.This film is on of the most important contributions to cinema ever, and
has done so much to finally show to true nature of WWII and war in
general. But even though I would rate this 10/10 if it was just for the
war scenes, the slop just gets in the way and devalues what should have
been perfection.

******
27 February 2011
10
While "Saving Private Ryan" may not be 100% accurate to the events of
World War II, but we must remember it is a fictional movie that is
based within real events and it isn't a documentary. I believe that it
is an incredible film. There are so many powerful moments and brilliant
performances from nearly every member of the cast.Giovanni Ribisi is the stand out to me with a powerhouse performance as
Medic Irwin Wade, and also the most underrated performance in the
movie. Every line he uttered, and every facial expression he gave
during his time on screen was met with meaning and sincerity. Without a
word you could tell what he was feeling. There are several stand-out
moments, such as when the men were resting in a church, Wade is
re-writing a letter that was covered in the blood of fallen soldier
Adrian Caparzo (brilliantly portrayed by Vin Diesel), in which he had
written to his parents. Wade begins talking about his mother, and tears
glaze his eyes. Later, Ribisi has me reaching for a tissue as his
character suffers several gunshots and calls for his mother.I think everyone should give this movie a chance. It may not be for
you, but if you enjoy war movies, this one is definitely a
recommendation from me.

******
26 February 2011
10
Saving Private Ryan is without a doubt the greatest war movie of all
time, it beats apocalypse now by a long shot. I've seen this movie
dozens of times now and the opening battle scene on Omaha Beach never
ceases to amaze me. The realistic war scenes are gory and violent, but
that's exactly what our great WW2 hero's had to go through.The acting was great all the way around by all the actors, especially
by Tom Hanks. I've seen other war movies but none have compared to
this, so why are there some idiots out there who say it's overrated?
They obviously are jealous they don't have the talent to create a
masterful war film like this.And by the way, I still don't understand why the Academy Awards didn't
give this best picture in 1999, the voters to me were obviously paid
off by the Shakespeare in Love producers.

******
22 February 2011
9
This has got to be one of the best movies ever made! If its not my
favorite, then its definitely one of them! From the introductory D-Day
scene to the final battle in Ramelle, Spielberg does a fantastic job
making the viewers feel like they're in the soldiers' shoes. The horror
these men have to encounter throughout the film's battles is something
that has definitely changed the war movie genre for good, as for the
audiences viewing it, making it a model for its genre.Even though it may occasionally seem patriotic (frequent when it comes
to WW2 movies, right?), Saving Private Ryan portrays human beings as
being fragile and not necessarily persuaded by the cause they're
fighting for. Captain Miller (Tom Hanks), for instance, only goes on
with this mission that his men consider suicidal because he's fed up
with this whole manslaughter and just wants to go home.The only problem I'd give to this movie would be that the German
soldier who grimly kills private Mellish (Adam Goldberg) is the same
one the unit encountered and nearly executed while taking control of
the radar site. The fact that the same guys had to run coincidently
into the same soldier again, out of the 100 or so other Germans in the
battle, was kinda dumb, but that little problem was not enough to ruin
the movie by a long shot!I can't believe this movie didn't get the Academy Award for best
picture, but it definitely earned its 5 others for directing,
photography, editing, sound and sound effects!I strongly recommend this film for about everything in it, from the
acting and morality to the incredibly realistic special effects.

******
19 February 2011
10
Fantastic cinematography, great acting, beyond realistic, unbelievable
attention to detail, gripping action scenes, compelling story... I
truly "lived" this movie from beginning to end. My heart pounded and I
almost threw up with the young men in the LCA heading for Omaha Beach
so intense was my connection with the action on the screen... intense,
almost too intense.It awoke feelings in me that forced me to question my own sense of
right and wrong... question how I would act in similar situations,
question the right and wrong of a war that I always had viewed as just,
the justification of the unconscionable, the motives, the hatred of the
enemy. Whether you like or don't like war movies, this is one of the best
movies ever made. It's neither an anti-war or a pro-war movie. It's
just a movie made without compromise. Tom Hanks is incredible. His best
role in my opinion.This one is on my top ten list of best movies ever.

******
15 February 2011
9
..."Saving Private Ryan" is likely to remain in my Top 10 Favorite War
Movies for a long, long time. I'm taking the time to post this edited
version of a review I wrote back when I first saw the film (opening
night, 1998) not because I think anyone on this site will care (or even
read it), but because I feel compelled to work on covering a wide
variety of my favorite films on this site. I watched the film again a
few days ago (probably at least my twentieth viewing), and wanted to
reflect on the differences in the initial viewing experience compared
to this recent one."Saving Private Ryan" is a film about honor, at its core, and is as
genuine a salute to men who have laid down their lives for their
country as anyone could ask. Director Spielberg and writer Robert Rodat
deliver a ferocious look at the intensity of modern close combat and
its effects on its participants, and raise questions for which there
are no confident answers, if indeed there ever have been any at all.The structure of the film is symmetric, opening and closing in a
Normandy military cemetery, where an aging vet and his family visit the
grave of a fallen comrade. Book-ended between are two blisteringly
enervating combat sequences and an episodic journey through horror and
hard questions.I say the film is about honor, and it is. What else is an act of saving
someone else if not an act of honor? And in the process of doing so,
the most difficult of all choices must be made--whether to sacrifice
one's own life that others might live, or make "the other poor, dumb
bastard die for his country." Spielberg's exploration of this dilemma
follows several paths and, in keeping with the general tenor of the
film--terrifying, numbing, disorienting, and possessed of a great
sorrow--he never provides sophistic or glib answers. He leaves us at
film's end still reeling from the dense insanity of a desperate bridge
defense, with an old man who after all the passing years still
struggles with unanswerable questions.Where is the honor in war? What is the relative value of a man's life?
On a personal level, is there anything worth the risk of unimaginable
pain and suffering? Other films have tackled these questions in the
past, but rarely had such visceral impact. A sniper's duel culminates
in a blasted eye socket that makes the audience cringe; a sapper is
blown to jelly by a defective "sticky bomb": an excruciating knife
fight in which the victor soothes his dying opponent almost crucifies
the audience with its grim denouement. Critics have harped on the
unrelenting violence as pandering to a jaded, bloodthirsty audience,
but they miss the point. Spielberg goes so far beyond the limits of
typical cinematic "Grand Guignol" that no one can mistake the overt
nature of the message: killing people, especially ones that are trying
to kill you, is a brutish, messy business, and no one in their right
mind has any desire to engage in the trade any more than they might be
otherwise compelled.After an opening 25-minute barrage that sets the tone, Spielberg and
Rodat's story begins to unfold. Capt. John Miller (Tom "Forrest Gump"
Hanks) must lead a squad of his men through a highly fluid battle zone
in search of a Private James Francis Ryan (Matt "Good Will Hunting"
Damon), the sole surviving brother of four. Ryan is somewhere behind
enemy lines, a trooper of the scattered 101st Airborne Division, who
had dropped the night before the invasion. It is D+3 and Miller has
orders from General George Marshall to bring Ryan out of the raging
Normandy battle, to be returned to the safety of his motherland and his
family. And so we set off on a trek through hell, a journey that will
leave most of its participants dead.Each man in the squad is an archetype, and a symbol. Pvt.Caparzo (Vin
"Pitch Black" Diesel) is Innocence, The Child. Wade, the medic
(Giovanni "SubUrbia" Ribisi), is Mercy, The Angel. Mellish, a Jewish
soldier (Adam "Dazed and Confused" Goldberg), and Jackson, the
prayerful sharpshooter (Barry "61*" Pepper), embody twin motivations of
Retribution and Righteousness, the Hammer and the Sword, while Sgt.
Horvath (Tom "Natural Born Killers" Sizemore) and Capt. Miller serve as
Fortitude and Conscience, dual engines of strength and courage that
keep the small patrol on its fated course.These are the ones who perish--each slain in ascending order of
significance within the simple tapestry of the plot--the human
qualities that are inevitably stripped from a man as he confronts the
implacable juggernaut of war. The only ones to survive the charnelhouse
are Pvt. Rieben (Ed "The Brothers McMullen" Burns), the Witness, Chance
("I was born lucky, Captain!"), and tag-along interpreter Cpl. Upham
(Jeremy "Spanking the Monkey" Davies), the Everyman audience surrogate,
the Fool. Ultimately, it is he who must make the crucial moral choice
of the film."Saving Private Ryan" is not a comfortable film experience. Overly
sensitive film-goers will probably be overwhelmed by it; if they can
make it through the Omaha beach sequence, they'll do okay. For the rest
of us, it's a film worthy of the accolades it has so far received.
Personally, I was a bit surprised that it didn't get the Oscar for Best
Picture over "Shakespeare in Love," especially since Spielberg got the
nod for Best Director. Such are the whims of the Academy. Never mind.
It takes nothing away from the raw power of "Saving Private Ryan."Addendum: one noticeable difference between the theatrical and home
video experience is visual. The stuttery, bleached-out quality of the
film (primarily in the battle sequences) is much reduced in the
transfer to small screen presentation. It's not a tremendous flaw, but
moves me to definitely recommend a theatrical viewing should it ever
present itself.

******
9 January 2011
10
At the beginning of Saving Private Ryan, US soldiers embark on the
Ohama Beach in France of D-Day 1944. As the hatches of the U-boats
open, hails of gunfire ricochets and hits the metal and soldiers. Many
jump off the boat and into the water while the gunfire pierce through
the water. Blood filled the ocean with dead soldiers dying. Loud
screaming is heard as Captain John H. Miller arrives at the hellish
beach with his eyes wide open. As he looks around him, soldiers are
seen screaming and some are holding their lives on with fear while some
finds out that their arms are shot off. Epic, pure epic. Saving Private
Ryan is not a roller-coaster of action, it's triumph. It's a movie
where you salute those who fought in Normandy on D-Day in World War II.
Steven Spielberg delivers us the horrors, shock and amazement and
triumph of World-War II since Schindler's List. I was amaze at what he
brought to us. The sheer horror and amazement of World-War II is never
forgotten. I have this movie on VHS, the Double Videocassette on
DreamWorks, that shows the feature movie and the special edition of the
movie. I also felt emotionally driven at the end when the older Private
Ryan is seen looking at John H. Miller's cross and grave. He asks his
wife if he was a good man and live a good life. After she answers Yes,
the camera shows Ryan and his family family in the background. With
triumph, he salute Miller's grave as the camera zooms in to shows the
description of the grave. The last shot shows the American flag waving
the sky. The film fades out. THAT is triumph and showing that American
soldiers will never be forgotten. All in all, Saving Private Ryan is a
epic war film that will never be forgotten and will be a war movie.
★★★★ 4 stars.

******
5 January 2011
10
Spielberg is well-known for his big films. Saving Private Ryan is his
best of the bunch by a clear mile. It is a statement in the genre of
war movies. An absolute top. I'm an huge fan of war movies and this one
is in my top 3 for sure. I like that there's a great piece of an human
side in this movie. It's quite touching. It makes it powerful.Tom Hanks was one the best actors of the 90's. He capped the decade off
with one the strongest performances of his career. He shows here why he
is Spielberg's favorite actor. He has lots of talent around him. Most
notably Edward Burns and Barry Pepper, a must-be guy in war movies. But
others like Matt Damon, Vin Diesel and Tom Sizemore leave the mark too.War movies are good when they seem realistic. This one for sure is. A
classic and a must-see in war genre. A masterpiece by one the most
acknowledged directors of our time. Watch alone or with friends, does
not matter, you get the point.

******
1 January 2011
10
What if the United States Military actually possessed a shred of
decency and humanity? Shyeh! What if.In SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, the people who type the "Sorry Your Son's Dead"
letters for the Warmongers Who Send Sons Off To Die notice that three
letters are addressed to the Ryan family of Anytown USA. Seems three
brothers have been killed in the name of assuaging the small-penis
insecurities of the American government. There is one more Ryan boy
presumably still alive, and the Warmongers Who Send Sons Off To Die now
send America's Favorite Son, Tom Hanks, to snatch the last Ryan from
the belly of the beast, intending to send him home honorably. Shyeh!
What if.Steven Spielberg's SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is the war movie by which all
other war movies will be measured - not for its implausible premise
(written by Robert Rodat) and typical propagandistic slant, but for its
revolutionary depiction of battle scenes, more brutal than any ever
committed to film. Visceral. Nightmarish. Incendiary. Words cannot do
justice to the ferocious spectacle and gutshock aftertaste of the
opening Normandy invasion.We meet the Yanks stepping onto the beach at Omaha, the sea more blood
than brine, in a frontal assault on the Normandy coast that is going
horribly wrong, as the German fortifications on the shoreline mow them
down ruthlessly. Steel crossbeam obstacles called "hedgehogs" stick
nefariously up from the sand in the low tide; planted to mutilate the
undersides of boats as they attain the shore - if the tide had kept the
hedgehogs hidden underwater - now they ironically provide the only
cover for the American troops in a searing firestorm.During this blood and bone tempest we meet Captain John Hiller (Tom
Hanks) trying to stay alive yet move his troops closer to the German
machine gun nests and take them out. We are in the crucified heart of
the battle, blood on the camera lens, rain dirt muddying the view,
machine gun rounds slamming and pinging past like fireballs, gray-green
desaturated filmstock and a kind of lens flare sheen around the film
edges; internal body parts, severed limbs, ear-numbing explosions; a
grimy, hellish, embracing maelstrom of frenzied death.Spielberg and longtime cinematographer Janusz Kaminski capture what has
never been captured in depictions of battle - desperation, futility,
the overwhelming randomness of slugs whizzing by and claiming lives,
medics wasting morphine stabs on dying soldiers; confusion and
screaming, bodily fluids and exit wounds, intestines mixing with mud -
simply the most authentic Cinematic War we have ever seen.Hiller's mission to Save Private Ryan is painted as a spark of humanity
illuminating the gross inhumanity of war. YET. The high command's
decision to send a son home to his grieving mother can only be for one
reason - not moral, ethical or humane - to make a future politician
look golden.Hiller's ragtag squad consists of Tom Sizemore (scrappy adjutant)
Edward Burns (cynic looker), Giovanni Ribisi (the doc), Barry Pepper
(holy sharpshooter), Adam Goldberg (resident Jew), Vin Diesel (goombah
muscle), and Jeremy Davies (scaredy cat Upham). And each man is created
whole, as we discover whenever "characterization" sets in during quiet
time.Captain Hiller feels every bladed inch of the Shakespeare axiom,
"Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown" (Henry IV). He is the victim
of one bad decision after anther, not all his fault, but for his
shoulders alone to bear. Each man who dies under his command takes him
"one step farther from home." When Hiller's troop finds private James Ryan - he is Matt Damon, acting
the hell out of the Concerned Face chapter of the Acting for Male
Models handbook.To climax the movie - another skin-searing battle sequence. Spielberg
is now just having the time of his life: his crew have the formula down
and we are once again struck speechless by the construction of the on
screen blitzkrieg that makes all other skirmishes on film look like
Monty Python's Batley Townswomens' Guild Battle of Pearl Harbor.Chilling - as Goldberg's Jew struggles with a German and is stabbed
slowly, deliberately; regretful - as Davies's scaredy-cat Upham
could've stopped the stabbing if he had just had the guts to run up a
stairway instead of tearfully ascending in fear; twisted - as Pepper's
holy sharpshooter prays while he snipes that his lord keep his hand
steady and his eye keen, "You are my tower, you are my shield" (which
should be a morbid contradiction for Christians, that they will instead
find reassuring - that "god" is supposedly on their side); disturbing -
when Ribisi's doc is mortally wounded and he stutters instructions on
how to "operate" on him, even as his liver is mutilated and the last of
the morphine is stabbed into his leg as he expires; amusing - as
Sizemore is shot and is madder at his gun jamming than at being shot;
ultimately tragic - as Hiller's dying words to Ryan convey his
confidence in the unproven worth of humankind, and a simultaneous
indictment that Ryan could never hope to live up to: "Earn this!...
Earn it." For closure, a general narrates a letter written by the People Who Send
Sons Off To Die, to Ryan's mother on how the army is soooo generous for
sending James Ryan home, misusing Lincoln's words about her other sons
being sacrificed on the "altar of freedom" and making our flesh crawl
with platitudes, euphemisms and shallow commiserations.Just think, if Franklin Delano Roosevelt had kept his promise of
keeping America out of foreign wars, instead of antagonizing Japan and
then entering WWII, he could have saved not only private Ryan, but also
the whole godforsaken American army, navy and air force.But that would entail America actually possessing a shred of decency
and humanity.Shyeh! What if.

******
25 October 2010
9
Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war movies ever made. There are
some faults to it but most of the times the movie is just breathtaking
especially the beginning scenes at Omaha Beach. Since this movie
historical fiction, some of the aspects are not going to be real.
People should stop complaining about that in not only this, but other
historical movies.This movie is about how the 2nd Battalion led by Captain Miller tries
to find the fourth brother to take him home because his three brothers
died in war.The acting is very good here. Tom Hanks is a staple in every movie he's
in. This is one of Matt Damon's early movies. This and Good Will
Hunting were the ones that brought him to considerable fame.This was put forth a great effort by Steven Spielberg, my all-time
favorite director. The war scenes were amazing. John Williams composed
a great though small score.Overall, this is one of my favorite war movies. There is tons of
violence and gore though. I rate this film 9/10.

******
3 September 2010
9
If you love war movies, Saving Private Ryan should be your favorite.
The battle scenes at Normandy are outrageously shocking and realistic
and it's beyond anything movie audience around the world has ever
experienced before. Steven Spielberg's genius shines once again. His
hand-held camera style makes you feel like you are actually there on
the battlefield, in the middle of it all, bullets whizzing by, rockets
exploding, soldiers dying in great numbers, as they are shred to pieces
with all the heavy artillery raining down on them. It is quite
breathtaking and also saddening. It is a story of a team of soldiers on
a mission to save one Private, namely Ryan. Ryan is the last son of a
family who already lost 4 of their sons to war. So the powers that be
decide to do something nice for the mother and launches the mission:
Saving Private Ryan. Rest is history. This movie took the war movies to
a different level. Strongly recommended.

******
3 September 2010
10
There's not much more to say than this is an amazing movie. Spielberg
did a wonderful job capturing the common brotherhood of soldiers in
WWII. He was able to tell a story about war, death, battles, stress,
and fear but also being able to capture a comedic element between the
soldiers, which made the movie a bit more realistic. This movie won
many awards for a reason. Overall the movie blew me away (no homo) and will always be one of my
favorite movies. The war scenes in this movie where absolutely amazing
and the graphic fight sequences rivaled that of the best war movies to
date. This movie will defiantly be a classic movie.You would be smart to watch this movie.

******
13 August 2010
10
Man was this good movie. I can't believe I haven't seen by now, but now
I have. I love this movie. The realism makes you feel like your with
them in the battle, the conversations they have feel real, and the
emotional strength it has is huge. My favorite movie from Steven
Spielberg used to be Jaws, but this has defeated it. As for Tom Hanks
movies this is so far my second favorite. My favorite will always be
Gump, but this is still a great film. The first 24 minutes is in real
time. These minutes are one of the most gruesome things I have ever
seen. People die left and right. People have their guts hanging out,
arms and legs are blown off, it really is a powerful scene filled with
realism. Acting performances are all great, but the best as expected is
from Tom Hanks. Overall this film is piece of genius.4 stars out of 4

******
1 August 2010
10
OK, I'm a girl who is not a big fan of movies with gunshots and war,
but I loved this movie. The first 20 minutes alone earned Spielberg the
Oscar for best director, they are realistic, you can see and really
infiltrate the horror of D Day, you can feel the despair, anger,
madness and courage of the American soldiers. But what I loved the most
was the fight of the principal characters for staying human and earn
the right to go home after killing a lot of people, bad guys, but still
people. It keeps you at the edge of your sit, wondering if they are
gonna be able to find Ryan, and when they do, if they are gonna win the
battle at Ramelle. The only negative thing I gotta say about this
movie, is that I expected that a principal character would die and
surprise! Tom Hanks dies.Going back to the beginning, the first 20 minutes left my jaw on the
floor. I'm not American, but my country helped the American soldiers
with supplies and nursing, and it makes you proud of pulling something
right "out of this s**tty mess"Congrats Spielberg!

******
6 July 2010
10
During the D-Day landings, a squad of eight American soldiers is sent
on a mission to rescue the sole survivor of four brothers, who is
trapped behind enemy lines.The film's battle sequences, particularly the Omaha beach landing, are
among the most stunningly powerful of director Steven Spielberg's
career. But the episodic plotting is naggingly formulaic, and the coda
in a graveyard tips this nearly great film into unfortunate
mawkishness. Saving Private Ryan grossed US$481.8 million worldwide,
making it the highest-grossing domestic film of the year. The Academy
of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences nominated the film for eleven
Academy Awards; Spielberg's direction won him a second Academy Award
for Best Director.

******
4 July 2010
9
Many know Steven Spielberg as one of the most impressive and great film
directors. He was the one who brought us Jaws, E.T., Encounters of the
Third Kind, the Indiana Jones movies, and Schindler's List( which I
unfortunately haven't had the pleasure of seeing yet). However,
Spielberg hasn't made such an emotionally empowering epic in all his
life that is Saving Private Ryan. SPR is about eight soldiers who are
sent into German territory in World War 2 to find and return home a
Private Ryan who's three brothers were killed in combat. Everyone is
great here, but the one person who stands out the most is none other
than Tom Hanks. Once again, Mr.Hanks plays an Oscar-worthy performance
as a troubled American army captain who just wants to return home to
his wife. This film successfully captures the brutality and horror of
war through up close and shaky, hand-held cameras. You really feel like
you're in the battle evading gun fire and witnessing people losing
limbs and dieing horrible deaths. In the end, I give kudos to Steven
Spielberg for delivering us a gripping and brutal film that has to be
one of, if not the best, WWII movies of all time.

******
26 October 2009
8
I read about how some people loved the movie and how some hated it. For
those who didn't like it, well it is a movie. It is an effort to
replicate the happenings of a long time ago when neither of us was
around. Luckily, we do have a few directors who try to get real at such
things  they try; some succeed, some make a fool of themselves and
some go beyond what the people of then could understand and depict a
story they feel is true, complete and powerful enough to support
reason.SPR is a beautiful movie. Yes, it does get a little slow and I did feel
that Steven did try forcing out emotions a little in some scenes but
that's me  I hate any person who portrays army generals or commanders-
I can never understand why do they have to be the wisest of the lot.
I'd prefer a more humane leader  some who'd be conflicted, guilty and
in the spur of the moment resolve to send in a team, maybe of
expendable soldiers to bring out a last son.So leaving the movie aside, I'd comment on the technicalities. Sound 
brilliant. I was way too small when this movie hit the theatres so I
saw it at home on my Philips Dolby Surround and it hit me boom, bang &
centre. It was piercing, jarring, ambient and well placed. As for the
music, John Williams could've done better  it sounded very expected
war hero symphony  So far I've not quite found a soundtrack that could
outmatch James Horner in Apocalypto; if you find onelet me know.Cinematography is beautiful. I've not seen a movie look like this. Very
well set up and the reduced tones help bring out the sunlight and the
serenity. You can see destruction and beauty side by side. The color
disappears when it rain, appears in the mornings, the nights are darker
so that distant firing can be made out. In all it was very well taught
of.Direction, well I am not going to criticize the man who made
Schindler's and Jaws. Steven is the God of film making and he knows it.
He has shown it. He moves with the camera, talks through his actors and
is super fast at execution  you can feel the spontaneous takes in
every scene. Still far from being Kubrick but I doubt there'd be anyone
greater.P.S: Please do not make another Indiana Jones movie. You totally are
spoiling what you've earned you know. That goes from me, Stan, Kyle &
Eric.My vote for SPR  8 / 10.

******
13 September 2009
10
Excellent movieIt had great war scene than many other such as "flags of our fathers"
which was a heroes films more than a war movie .Any movie that credits war heroes deserves praise and this one was
exceptional .The scenes were terrific and it tells us about the leadership qualities
from the commander steven does it again in making the film one of the
best . The line " Earn this , Earn it " Will stay in my mind for ever . Thats
the importance of life .No wonder it was selected as the bes war movie of all time .Thank You All the best.

******
12 September 2009
7
I saw this when it was first released in 1998 and wrote a review which
for some reason never got posted. 500 films later, and seeing
Tarantino's very idiosyncratic war movie, "Inglourious Barsterds" I was
reminded of this one, where the story is played absolutely straight in
a way to give the average American patriot goosebumps. Yet the rescuing
of Sergeant Ryan (Matt Damon) is actually a cynical effort by the High
Command to boost morale which puts eight brave men into jeopardy.
Spielberg's battle scenes are really something  ten years later I
still vividly recall the first 20 minutes on the Normandy beach  the
audience is put right in it. Other than that I remember a vivid fire
fight in a ruined French village and the final scene 40 years later. I
had to be reminded that it was Tom Hanks who led the rescue team (I do
recall Vin Diesel in it too), so the acting didn't leave much
impression. The actors were overpowered by all the action.Perhaps comparing this blockbuster with Tarantino is not fair, Both
films entertain in there own way  Spielberg, who gives us splendid
visuals, is utterly conventional and offends very few viewers and
Tarantino does things his own way and doesn't care who he offends
(though he does not make light of atrocity). Has the second world war
movie run its course? Even if the answer is "yes" we have not seen the
end of war movies in general. As long as there are wars there will be
movies about them. "Ryan" at least tells a coherent story, and survival
stories are usually both pretty gripping and mildly uplifting.
Tarantino, on the other hand is inclined toward nihilism, but he does
have fun getting there. Spielberg is more hard work, but "Ryan" has to
be one of his better films.

******
5 June 2009
8
To tell you the truth; I didn't know much about WW2 other than what I
read in books at school. But this film really puts you there. How they
were able to take control of a beach wired to explode really makes you
appreciate my freedom. I just thought I'd start with that.Overall, this is an excellent movie. It really has a forties feel to it
and it's really intense. From storming the beach in Normandy to the
final battle. It's was good, but don't be fooled. The story itself;
didn't actually happen. It was a fictional story mixed into a REAL
event. We don't see this much. Titanic anybody? But the story worked.The plot is about a Squad of eight people trying to find the last
remaining "Ryan" who's three brothers died so they can send him home.
There's a lot of good battle scenes along the way. It might not be good
for the faint of heart. I read that they actually used real amputees
for when people got their legs blown off. So, be warned.Overall, I'd say this is a great film. Stephen Spielberg directing. Tom
Hanks, Matt Damon, Paul Giamonti and Vin Diesel were in the mix. If
you're into action, history or have a good heart; I suggest watching
this. This film will break you down and make you feel for the people
who put their lives down for your freedom.I give it an 8/10.

******
17 March 2009
8
The movie had excellent detail and made me feel that I was there. It
didn't hold back on showing what war really was. With all the gore,
dialog, action and emotion that only thing it needed was the smell. The
camera angles did a great job showing what the soldiers had to do to
survive. The view of the aftermath showed how terrible war was. The
movie took time to show everything, even the things we didn't want to
see. The only problem I had with the movie was the dialog between
battles. I thought that some parts just didn't work and were to long.
The dialog before and after the battles showed a lot of emotion, but
between the battles were poorly showed. I Lost interest during parts of
the movie because of the dialog. The movie was still good even with
some poor dialog because it made up for it with it's intense action. I
would recommend this movie to someone, but I wouldn't call it
excellent.

******
17 March 2009
10
I liked the movie because it has a lot of action in it. It also has
some really good scenes from all over the world. I also liked the
acting from the actors. The part I liked the most is when they had
found him and are defending the bridge. When they are trying to get on
shore in the beginning of the movie. I liked the character Up-um
because I can see this happening to someone that has not been out on
the field of the war. The acting of Tom Hanks is I think the best
because he dose the best acting in the whole movie. I think that he
gets into his character better than the others. I also liked how they
were able to get over obstacles by working together. I also noticed
that there was a lot of blood and shooting. So I think that if you like
war movies then you would like this movie.You would also like this
movie if you like a movie with a lot of action. So this movie is really
good and I would see it.

******
17 March 2009
9
Saving private Ryan was a great representation of the events that
occurred during D-day. Some scenes were hard to watch with the
realization that events shown in the movie did occur in real life. I
would like to have seen more in the movie about other events in the
war. I thought that the characters in the movie showed much development
on how they felt about the mission they are on. I thought that John
Miller's role showed leadership and courage even in times of chaos.
Private Ryan showed great courage and pride as he refused to leave the
battle field when his services were no longer required. I thought that
Upham showed fear at the end and was a disappointment as he failed to
help his comrades. Upham didn't understand the horrors of war and
therefore could not accept that he had to kill a prisoner in order to
keep him from returning to the military even though it didn't seem like
the right thing to do.

******
17 March 2009
8
this movie was an American classic. this is the first time i have seen
this movie and i just want to say that it is much better than expected.
i have seen many war movies before like band of brothers and Patton and
this movie goes right up there with them. the part that i really
enjoyed was when they stormed the German radio bunker and they took a
German prisoner. the captain then made a controversial choice to let
the man go free. later in the final segment of the film we see the same
released prisoner fighting against them. i was really surprised when we
saw him again because one of the terms of release was that he would
turn himself over to the next American unit he saw i thought he would.i
also enjoyed that throughout the whole film the captains hand is
quivering i think this is a physical manifestation of his mental
breakdown. i don't think he ever saw himself becoming a soldier and he
is stricken with the grief of all the lives he has cost.

******
17 March 2009
10
This movie is one that depicts the environment that a soldier in ww2
would live in. It is a great movie. The way that all of the characters
acted throughout the film was, in my eyes, perfect. Each had a large
dislike for what they were doing but also, had an urge to do it. They
all have small flaws in their character. For instance, Captain Miller
has a shaky hand, probably caused by his life in the military and the
stress put on by it. Also, it shows how most soldiers are tough, but
also have a side that shows the true feelings of their character. Like
before some of the men die, they are talking to their mom, or family
members. Also, most of the men are smokers and it shows that it is
brought on by the war because Upum claims that before he left for the
army he never smoked, but he says this with a cigarette in his mouth.In
conclusion, this movie is top 5 war movies of all time and should be
watched by all.

******
17 March 2009
10
This is a very sad movie. It makes me think about what the war was
about and weather or not war is worth the cost that is always paid. How
would a mother feel if she had to receive a letter telling her that her
son was killed in action? In the letters in the movie is was said that
the people who died honorably to protect the freedom of this country.
Does that justify young men being send into battle and killed? This
movie does an excellent job of posing that question. It does seem to
make the argument that it is not worth it. In the film the reason for
the Captain wanting to go save Pvt Ryan is so he can go home to his
wife. The other point this movie makes about war is that all of the
soldiers, even the enemies, are all human. This is evident in the whole
movie. The Germans are seen to be evil when they are fighting, but when
they surrender they seem like every other character in the movie.

******
17 March 2009
10
This movie was at first not rated, because of its gore and violent
themes. Some countries refused to show it, because they did not agree
with the extreme graphic violence. But Steven Spelburg did not back
down, and stood up for what he believed in. He though that the only way
to truly portray this movie was to have it include gratuitous amounts
of violence and gore. This was the only way to get through to the
audience how horrible a conflict World War II was, and why we should do
everything possible to make sure it never happens again. Because if it
does happen again, we will have to experience Saving Private Ryan
firsthand, something none of us want to do. But I digress. The movie is
extremely moving, and we can identify with these soldiers who are
thrust into conflict without necessarily wanting to. They all have
distinctive personalities, and are very original. The battle scenes
really opened my eyes to how World War II was like, and the true level
of the combat that took place during the war.

******
17 March 2009
8
at the beginning of the movie it starts out on the beaches of normandy,
and the action and battle scenarios there are very violent but gnarly
at the same time. The movie is very fast paced, with many epic
gunfights, but there are also times when the actors show very
passionate emotion which gives the story more feeling to go along with
the constant killing. the men in the platoon sent to rescue pvt. ryan
are goofy fellahs themselves and joke around with each other all the
time so there is also some comedyish parts in Saving Private Ryan. the
soundtrack to this movie is epic it is well directed and the acting was
muy bueno (good) the end of the movie was well done with the fadeout
back to the present time and his face changing from young to old!

******
17 March 2009
9
This is a great movie that i would recommend to anyone who wants a good
movie, and has the time to watch a long movie. This has everything a
great movie needs with action, a good plot, and a care for the
characters in the movie. Also the movie has great picture and sound
making you feel like your really there along with the other troops
fighting to save the world from evil. Another important thing the movie
does is it tries to stay close to a believable battle, and does not try
to amp up the action by adding things that were not there before.
Finally the movie makes great stride in allowing the viewer to connect
its hero's in the past, to its hero's of today by showing in the
beginning of the movie a character that is seen in the movie later in
his life. With all these features working together in one great movie,
it is hard not to want to watch it again and again, which can sometimes
be hard with a movie of this length.

******
8 March 2009
10
I cant believe this movie didn't get the Best Picture Oscar.It's ten
times better then Shakespeare in Love.I wont even mention that it's one
of the best directed movies ever.The direction is simply perfect.Even
though i don't usually like Steven Spielberg because he direct's a lot
of science fiction movies but a got to give it to the man,he really can
direct.I think he should hold on to the themes like this one.You
know,World War-II and so...Every movie he made on World War-II is a
masterpiece.Just look at Schindler's List for example!It's a
masterpiece too.Just like Saving Private Ryan.This movie has the most realistic war scenes ever.The camera is shaky
all the time and it fit's great to the movie.The battles are
so...Wow!Really great.A truly remarkable directing Spielberg
did.Remarkable!I think you have to be a very skilled director to make
an extraordinary epic movie out from a screenplay that's written in
ninety present action.Don't get me wrong,the screenplay is great too
but the director is mostly responsible for this movie turning out to be
so good.I also have to mention that the acting was very good too.I was mostly
surprised by Giovanni Ribisi.He truly acted great in this film.Afcorse
there was also Tom Hanks who is alway's great and so on...There is only one thing that i didn't like in the movie and that's the
end of it.Not the complete ending but the part when they find Ryan and
when they tell him that his brother's are dead!I don't know,his
reaction was just too normal.I mean i would be thinking about a suicide
an he barely cried!!!But what a hell,the movie is still excellent.Anyway,this is a movie that i recommend to everyone.It's great in every
aspect.Just turn it on and as soon as you see the first war scene on
that beach,you will be amazed!A-m-a-z-e-d!!!10/10.

******
13 February 2009
10
From the word "go", I felt immersed in the scene of the D-Day landings.
These scenes were indeed frightening, but terrific all at the same
time. The camera work was just excellent, and the acting was superb.One thing I noticed from people leaving comments, many people hold a
hostility towards this film because it makes American's look like
heroes. This is totally understandable, as we do often gratify
ourselves too much. But, this movie was based on the lives of
American's in the war, and the writer and Spielberg tried to make it as
unbiased as they can, but the fact is more people look at the American
fronts more than any other. This is a sad fact as nearly all countries
suffered from this great (but yet horrible) war. It is clearly seen in
the movie that surrenders of the German side were horrible because our
American troops executed some of them, that stirred me in the wrong
direction but yet it is true.And as for previous comments, the English and Canadians did help clear
the beaches, but didn't play a huge role.Setting the issues before aside, this was possibly one of the best
movies ever made. I know spots can get dry sometimes as will all
movies, but other than that it kept me interested, and entertained.

******
2 February 2009
8
"Saving Private Ryan" was Steven Spielberg's tribute to the men who
fought for freedom in the second world war. The film begins with the
D-Day landing before moving on to a mission with the express purpose of
retrieving a private whose three brothers have recently fallen in
combat.The story is loosely based on a similar case involving four brothers by
the name of Niland. However, Robert Rodat's screenplay also uses Ryan
to represent the unknown individuals that these soldiers risked (and
often lost) their lives for. The script is occasionally clumsy in its
attempts at profundity but not enough to be a major distraction.The cast is a varied and well-assembled lot. Tom Hanks secured the
film's only Oscar nomination in the acting categories but the entire
cast upholds a high standard of workmanship. Even actors whom I usually
don't care for, such as Edward Burns and Vin Diesel, deliver
performances that fit in seamlessly with their peers and their
surroundings. As a result, I have to credit the casting director with
finding the right actors for the right parts.Spielberg's direction won him his second Oscar in that category and is
everything that you would expect from him. The first twenty or so
minutes in particular (the D-Day landing) is riveting while Spielberg
continually shows himself capable of handling all situations and
settings with aplomb. Of course, this wouldn't be a Spielberg film
without a John Williams score. Williams contributes a fine score here,
if not quite reaching the same lofty heights as his very best work.All things considered, "Saving Private Ryan" is quite an achievement.
It boggles the mind that "Shakespeare in Love" beat this for the Best
Picture Oscar. Surely that is a snub to go down in history along with
the likes of "Raging Bull" & "Apocalypse Now".

******
22 January 2009
10
Truly amazing!! Saving Private Ryan is one of those rarities, it's a
war film with heart. This amazing WWII film stars Tom Hanks as Capt.
John Miller a solider who's seen too much and who is done with war,
during D-Day him and his unit are ordered to find a single solider by
the name of John Francis Ryan a private in the airborne division who
just recently lost all three of his brothers in combat, now Miller and
his men have to bring Ryan back alive while out running the Nazis and
there conscious. Saving Private Ryan is a dedication to the men who
died to protect there nation and there freedom they were soldiers who
battled against oppression and evil. they fought for what they believed
was right and conquered and this film shows that one man is just as
important as the rest. I very highly recommend this astounding Motion
picture. I hope my review helps ~ C.R. Lopez.

******
1 December 2008
10
When you think war movies. Now. Now you should only think of one, this
movie. This movie is a true masterpiece, it truly signifies war in a
realistic environment. There may be some Cleches or wrong historical
facts, but that isn't whats truly important. What is important is that
this movie is a turning point in how everyone should judge any war
movie. Its compelling and rich and full of emotion and drama, it grips
the viewer with significant empathetic features that only Spielberg
could pass. As a youngster (when I first viewed this, and I still am
compared to most on here I presume) the first bullet to bullet packed
minutes captured my mind and didn't let go. It's the first thing that ever made me actually think about war in
another light. Before (being young) we think its all wiz, bang, boom
you're dead. After the first few minutes you can truly interpret what
war really is. HORRIFYING. This movie is one of my favourites the casting was perfect in every way
and the directing also perfect. I couldn't think of any better ways to
make this movie better. 10/10 all the way.Thank you for viewing my comment.

******
17 November 2008
9
When I first saw this on the big screen, my senses were literally
violently shaken, my heart pounded with fear and adrenaline within the
first 5 minutes. No other war film made me feel like I was in it and
feel the real horror that war is. It comes sudden and when it does, its
relentless, leaving you breathless. On second viewing, 10 years later
on a small screen, the shock element has of course slightly diminished
but the impact and dare I say it, adrenaline rush is still there.I have since seen several war films which have used Spielberg's ground-
breaking first person perspective war film tools such as Thin Red line,
Band of brothers, Letters from Iwa Jima, Flags of our Fathers etc (in
fact most of these. apart from Thin Red Line, were produced by
Spielberg). But none has bettered the astounding execution of brutal
warfare as Saving Private Ryan. I now view it as the greatest action
war movie of all time. The mission to save Private Ryan is a riveting
one as the 8 protagonist soldiers undertake detour missions to reach
their goal. The soldiers are depicted as flawed, sometimes confused,
sometimes disillusioned, brave, frightened, cowardly, rational,
irrational...all the elements of chaos that war brings and burdens the
soldiers minds including their captains. The squad comprises a typical range of characters, perhaps some
stereotypical in war films but all played wonderfully, not over the
top, not caricatured but like real people that we may know. Hanks as
ever superbly holds the film together as he leads his squad into the
chaos. My favourite character though is the clumsy, bumbling
interpreter who has limited combat skills and struggles to be brave, a
role wonderfully played by Jeremy Davies who later perfects those
delightful hesitant mannerisms as Daniel Faraday in the Lost TV
series). The most conflicting question being raised throughout the film and by
each soldier was the worthiness of risking many lives (or indeed
wasting valuable resources) to save one soldier who may or may not be
alive. This really is the main theme, posing a great moral dilemma.Some complain that there is absolutely no reference to other allies
involvement but why is that necessary? Every ally had their own
missions. I am British yet I do not make any qualms. Britain has made
their own war films with British only protagonists. America can do the
same. They did fight too regardless of the fact they entered into it
late but they did fight. And no ally won the war by themselves. The
Allies as a whole won the war.But I digress. This movie can be classed as simply a great action
packed war film but it is layered with moral conflicts, incredibly
brutal realism and fine performances all round. A magnificent
achievement that has yet to be bettered 10 years on.

******
10 November 2008
6
Where I won't deny that it is a overall well made movie, I can't give
it the acclaim it seems to have gotten from anti-war people gushing
over it's so called 'message'. To me, it was WAY too in your face about
it's anti-war message, it's like it was shoved down your throat and
most of the movie leaves you with a bad taste in your mouth. The
violence, however realistic, is gratuitous and for me personally, takes
away from the message of the movie. The premise and execution is also
to me nothing special, it's everyone's vision of an 'American War
Tragedy', it brings nothing special or eloquent to the table for me
either. I feel that Hollywood only seems to know how to communicate
messages by going way over the top, it's like they don't seem to
appreciate the value of subtly or think people can't comprehend the
message unless you have a 20 minute scene of soldiers being blown to
bits. You don't have to hit someone with a sledgehammer to get their
attention, and if that's the audience you are going for then it doesn't
speak well of the intellectual value of the movie in the first place. I
feel like the masses that will go on and on about how great this movie
is are the people who only frequent the usual blockbusters and don't
have especially high expectations in the first place. To me, it lacked
a lot of valuable things that would have made it a truly GREAT story,
but I will say it will most likely not disappoint your average viewer.

******
21 May 2008
8
The movie is basically about the WWII so its very Violent and sad at
some parts.Sgt. John H. Miller is ordered to set up a crew and go find
another soldier named James Francis Ryan,who had three more brothers
who where killed in combat,and the order is to take him out of Normandy
and return him home,in the trans curse of finding this soldier two
soldiers are killed , one of their murderer a Nazi German soldier is
set free by John,which showed weakness to the other soldiers on his
command,at the end of the movie Sgt. John H. Miller is killed by the
same German soldier who he had set free.At the end older James Ryan is
standing in front of a tomb that has the name John H. Miller written on
it,in the memorial Normandy cementery in France,his wife comes up to
him and he asks her if he has been a good husband,the wife answers of
course yes.Remembering the last words that Sgt John H. Miller said to
him at the bridge "Earn it".

******
26 March 2008
10
1993 saw the premier of "Schindler's List", Spielberg's bracing and
emotionally scorching story about Oskar Schindler. 1998 he re-visits
World War 2 and produces an equally powerful story about the saving of
one man's life in the midst of post D-day battles. It is an appropriate
temptation to compare his two seminal WW2 films, both such very
powerful dramatic stories. Both concern themselves with salvation, with
Schindler on the large scale and Ryan just one man. In the process of
saving the many Jews he did Schindler was also somewhat successful in
redeeming the moribund humanity within him. Tom Hanks' character in
Ryan (Cpt. John Miller) does not need personal redemption or salvation
because he is a good man who does not shirk from the weight of
difficult missions and onerous responsibilities. However, in the midst
of what appears to be an utterly mad task by his crew, we do wonder if
any of them are transformed in a positive way? We know from the opening
moments of the film that Private Ryan himself lived the remainder of
his life with doubt as to whether the risk to save him and the cost to
the small band of soldiers was worth the price paid? Carrying the
survivors guilt heavily upon his shoulders, Ryan greatly struggles to
lift the doubts as he confronts Miller's grave. It is a question that
Spielberg leaves in an ambiguous state, left for the viewer to
contemplate.As a drama I found the script believable, even if within the confines
of a very important battle it stretches credibility to imagine that it
could have happened. I do not know if it is in whole or partially based
on a true story. I just had to accept that it might have happened even
if far fetched. Spielberg has almost no peer as a story teller in film.
I am reminded of the moment in the film where Miller thinks he has
found the correct Pvt Ryan, proceeds to tell the hapless soldier the
bad news, sits and watches him take the news with a wincing pain and
then finds out he has the wrong man. The emotional roller coaster is
incredibly wrenching to watch and think about. The actors handle it
superbly and to Spielberg's credit, once the point has been made the
scene moves on, with the story lurching forward to the point, the
finding of Ryan.The special effects have been the subject of much praise. I'd have to
say that the opening sequence is about as shocking and gruesome a
depiction of war in it's ferocious misery as you can imagine. It sets
the tone for what is to come; much close at hand battles and a lot of
people dying. As the great Civil War Union General Sherman was known to
have said: "You cannot qualify war in harsher terms than I will. War is
cruelty, and you cannot refine it." and "There is many a boy here
today who looks on war as all glory, but, boys, it is all Hell." These
sentiments overhang the entire movie and limit the usual tendency of
Spielberg to drift into sentimentality. We are given enough of an
immersion into the gore of war and all that remains is hell.The movie wants to focus on Tom Hanks and from some points of view it
does. However, I think that this is the obvious reaction. You watch
this film a few times and you begin to notice how many fascinating and
well developed characters come to life. There is so much room in this
film to be inclusive and generous with character development and
Spielberg takes full advantage. Even the German soldier that Miller
saves (another soul saved at the least opportune time, in the most
surprising of circumstances) remains much more than a cipher. He
returns to duty and the duty is to kill Allied soldiers. Was Miller a
dreamy fool, a morally rigid person? Why did he let the soldier go free
when the battle had cost him a very valuable soldier in his unit? What
is Spielberg saying here? Why save this man's life and also save Pvt
Ryan's life? It is left unexplained and even as that characters
resolution comes, we are left scratching our heads, wondering what to
make of it. I think that ambiguity is appropriate for the madness of
the battle. When in extreme moments of great stress, people often reach
decisions that they would never consider if posed in a quiet moment.
All of this sits firmly within the overall question that hangs over the
film. Should Pvt Ryan be saved and at what cost? Should the German
soldier not be saved and why shouldn't he have been taken prisoner to
be given over to authorities later on? In one his strongest and finest
roles, surrounded by outstanding actors who all deliver 100%, given a
huge landscape full of boffo special effects, Tom Hanks carries an
important film forward into a tragic but believable ending. War is the
great leveler and who survives and who dies is an imponderable
question. Coming away from this emotionally draining film, we do
wonder. A classic, worthy of all it's awards. Stick around for the
credits as John Williams ends the movie with a very stirring choral
piece.

******
3 March 2008
10
This is one of the most powerful movies I have seen depicting the moral
dilemmas man struggles with during wartime. I have seen this film about
10 times and it still impacts me in the same way. The bonds of
brotherhood run deep, but seems to be squad deep. The squad led by
Captain John H. Miller, played by Tom Hanks, struggles with the
question of "Why do they have to risk their lives to save the life of
one man." This struggle continues to become more painful with the loss
of each man killed in the "line of duty." Miller's statement, "I just
know that every man I kill, the farther away from home I feel." Give a
glimpse into the emotional toll war has on the human mind and soul.
This struggle seems to overshadow the deeper struggle Cpl. Timothy P.
Upham has with the right the rest of the squad has with being judge,
jury and executioner when dealing with a lone German soldier after
being taken prisoner. After "befriending" Upham he wins freedom from
execution, but this in turn comes back as a haunting reminder of the
possible consequences of mercy in wartime. I found the scenes revolving
around the return of the German soldier and his disregard for the men
who offered freedom instead of execution to cause me to think about how
I would have reacted. Upham's struggle with fear was painful to watch,
but more painful was the realization of what his inaction had caused.
The transformation of the man, from compassionate, concerned human
being to judge, jury, and executioner. As the German soldier reminds
him that they are friends and again pleads for his life, Upham asks him
"What is my name?" After he answers Upham kills him. What went through
Upham's mind? I can't help but wonder if he would have spared his life
if he had not remembered? By remembering his name does the German
soldier make a statement about his disregard for the gift of freedom he
had received? I cannot help but wonder how I would react when presented
with the same dilemma. To judge or not to judge, the choice to take
human life or not, using rational means to justify one actions. The
struggle to maintain ones humanity during war must be one of the
greatest struggles man endures. So what do we do with the scripture in
Matthew that says, "Do not judge, or you too will be judged. 2 For in
the same way you judge others, you will be judged, and with the measure
you use, it will be measured to you." ?????

******
1 March 2008
10
A great movie. Excellent directing by Stephen Spielberg, this film
uncovers and shows the public the horrors of war. This also shows what
kind of pain and suffering war veteran's went through.This film also
dramatically portrays the Normandy invasion (specifically, Omaha
beach). Also, moving scenes like, George Marshal reading Abe Lincoln's
letter helped add to the drama of this film. Another excellent part of
this movie was John William's dramatic and chilling soundtrack. Songs
like "Hymn to The Fallen" left me in tears. Also, sensational acting by
Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies, Edward Burns was another major
factor in this film's success. Overall, an excellent anti war film that
shows how war can split apart families and change the lives of ordinary
people.

******
28 February 2008
8
"Sometimes I wonder if I've changed so much, my wife is even gonna
recognize me whenever it is I get back to her, and how I'll ever be
able to, tell about days like today. Ahh, Ryan. I don't know anything
about Ryan, I don't care. The man means nothing to me; he's just a
name. But if, you know, if going to finding him so he can go home, if
that earns me the right to get back to my wife, well then, then that's
my mission"I am sure other reviewers who have reviewed 'Saving Private Ryan' (SPR)
have rated it as the "Best War Movie Ever Made"" and I agree. To think
that this movie did not win Best Picture is a crime. Director Steven
Spielberg used all of his talent and resources to give to the world the
greatest war film ever made.Greatest things about SPR are first of all the sensational, highly
awarded and celebrated camera work that actually gives audience the
feeling of being in the battlefield too. That's what makes the film
such a thrilling, vivid and incredible experience.It puts the the
viewer from the comfortable living room chair to "out there" and puts
him/her go through this hell and every nightmarish detail that's part
of it. Other marvelous thing is a good story, little extraordinary and
different from what the usual war films normally have. That's what
keeps the movie interesting all the way.SPR is just outstanding. Spielberg thrusts the viewer into the Normandy
campaign and you need a strong stomach to endure this. The film's
opening scene has been billed as the best D-Day scene of all time and
it rightly deserves that. The attack on Dog Green Sector, Omaha Beach
is arguably the most realistic movie portrayal of battle
(notwithstanding that breakthrough actually took over three hours). Also one of the things that stand out most in this film is the
effects.You experience the sound of bullet whizzes,explosions,and the
eerie sound of approaching tanks on a quiet little bombed out town. A
brilliant innovation is the color reduction (over 50%) which makes you
really believe it is 1944. Music is used to great effect in moments of
calm. The brutality of battle is clearly demonstrated as is the sadness
of loss of life, yet the campaign is necessary to end the tyranny of
Hitler and Nazi ideology.The storyline is a real strength and the characters & acting are
superb. Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) carries out his mission hoping to
return to his wife; only his shaking right hand alludes to the inner
turmoil he struggles with from soldiers dying under his command. He is
well supported by Sergeant Horvath (Tom Sizemore), who maintains
discipline within the squad. But some cannot contain their doubts and
even anger that eight lives should be risked to save one life. Though
every man has a mother, you cannot help feel that Ryan (Matt Damon)
must be saved out of decency. Ryan himself selflessly stays to defend
his outnumbered "brothers" in spite of the disaster to befall his
family. Finally, "Steamboat Willie" humanizes the Germans when pleading
for his life. Befriended by Upham, he is released, yet returns to
battle. His death shows that men who could otherwise be friends will
kill each other in war.Only a few historical inaccuracies detract from the brilliance of SPR.
Often outnumbered, the Germans conquered most of Europe by 1942 through
tactical skill in battle, something missing in their clumsy attack on
Ramelle. And tanks had bulletproof glass over vision ports, so driver
and radio operator could not be killed so easily. A role for the
British was lacking; sadly a Hawker Typhoon could not be used to bomb
the Tiger tank. Another historical inaccuracy people have noticed is
the Church tower in Ramelle which, according to German tactics,would of
have been destroyed as it would give an advantage to the enemy but I
don't think it will detract from the film. In fact, a good knowledge of
WW2 history is important in order to place this film in context.
Overall, this tactical and human story within the carnage of WW2 is a
must see for anyone who watches war movies. And don't miss the message
in Captain Miller's last words: "James... earn this. Earn it." The question this film poses is: Is it truly worth it to sacrifice the
lives of many for one person???? This is the same question which
Private Reiben asks to Hanks. The whole dialog go like this: Pvt.Reiben: "You want to explain the math of this to me? I mean,
where's the sense in risking the lives of the eight of us to save one
guy?"Capt.Miller: "Anyone wanna answer that?"Medic Wade: "Hey, Reiben think about the poor bas***d's mother." Pvt. Reiben: "Hey, Wade, I got a mother, you got a mother, the sarge
has got a mother. S**t, I'll bet that even the Captain's got a
mother........ Well, maybe not the Captain, but the rest of us have got
mothers"You have a great weekend!!!!!!!

******
1 December 2006
10
Well this movie is one of the least movies which succeeded in
describing the Brutality of World War II from both sides The Axis
forces & the Alliance forces, thought Hitler was really magnificent in
making a Real Strong Defence Bases in Normandy & in all the countries
whom he entered.But there is only something which I think it is not realistic, it is
the story of the movie. I do not think that in this war & people are
dying everywhere, I - Alliance Forces - would risk the lives of a good
party like John Miller's party to save one soldier behind the enemy
lines - not any enemy, it is the Hitler forces - though there were
millions who might be saved in the Airborn event.It may be taken from a real story, in fact I do not know, but overall
It's an excellent movie I recommend it for anyone who wants to see the
World War II realistic...Thank you very much...

******
31 October 2006
7
i think the movie was good, i did but the problem came at the very end
where you see Ryan standing at the graveyard and then the Stars and
stripes in the background... i think it was to much, it is too
patriotic and it was saying "war is horrible, we know, but you do it
for your country and we will remember you" the problem is... you won't.
and that is why i think if he had kept the style about war being a bad
thing it would help us realize that we must seek peace instead of
warfare, so that you will not end up crying on a battlefield with your
best friend in your arms.Søren Iversen 16 Yo. Denmark.

******
5 September 2006
9
Saving Private Ryan starring Tom Hanks and an all-star cast was one of
the best war films I've ever come across. It's mixture of violence,
gore, drama and brotherhood between the 8-man unit was a different view
of World War 2. Most war films just get stuck into random violence and
don't take the time to explore the lives and views of the soldiers
fighting for their country and their allies. With Private Ryan (Matt
Damon) loses his three brothers in other parts of the world, Miller's
(Hank's) unit must track him down to bring him back home.Almost immediately Carpozo (Vin Diesel) is killed and the mission takes
an ominous turn. After a false alarm, the team finally finds Ryan but
not before their medic Wade is killed whilst trying to capture a German
machine gun battery.At the end of the film, after a large battle, most of the squad is
annihalated and Hanks is hit by two German bullets which, in the end,
terminate his life. But his mission was accomplished, Ryan survived,
along with Upham and Mellish.A great war film and a must see for any War film-loving fan.

******
19 July 2006
10
I think that the Academy was drunk when the voted Shakespere in Love
Best Picture over this masterpiece. This movie was my favorite movie
for many reasons. First of all, this is a lot better than The Thin Red
Line. Saving Private Ryan had great acting from pretty much everyone.
Tom Hanks should have won Best Actor for this film. His performance was
excellent. He plays Captain John H. Miller. He acts strong in front of
his squad to set an example for them, and he hides his emotions from
them. He makes brave and stupid decisions during war, but his
performance was great. Tom Sizemore did a great job in this movie along
with Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Jeremy Davies, Matt
Damon, and pretty much everyone else. Paul Giamatti had a cameo in this
movie. Cpt. Miller and his squad must go behind enemy lines to rescue
paratrooper James Ryan, who's three brothers died in combat. In my
opinion, this is Steven Spielberg's greatest achievement, and Tom
Hank's best performance. I give everyone my highest recommendation,
though the violence may scare people away. No doubt my favorite movie
of all time.

******
29 June 2006
10
Saving Private Ryan has one of the best performances by all characters,
while still signifying war as a bloody, gruesome and meaningless
battle.The movie, unlike many other war movies (The Great Raid), or even
(Pearl Harbor), Saving Private Ryan follows a group of soldiers, on a
mission to save Private Ryan. The fighting scenes are very accurate,
and very gruesome. Saving Private Ryan is not one that drags on, but
one that you enjoy the entire 2 hours and 50 minutes. Tom Hanks has
done a great performance, as well as all the others. One of Steven
Spielberg's greatest master pieces.

******
25 June 2006
9
I have seen many World War II films, many of them very well written and
acted out, but few measure up to the class of Saving Private Ryan. The
film's gore, language, among other vulgarities are extremely well
represented, but it is the end that got me.During the final scenes of the movie, when Hanks and his men have
fought a hard and difficult battle, Hanks' character John Miller has
been mortally wounded and dies in the arms of one of his soldiers;
incidentally, the man he and his squad rescued, James Ryan. Ryan
returns to the grave of his superior officer years later, salutes, and
the legacy of a heroic soldier remains, though he has been dead for
decades. A film that made me weep like never before. A nine out of 10
in my book.

******
6 June 2006
9
Possibly, Spielberg's seminal work. I don't think that there have been
any of his movies worth watching since Saving Private Ryan. This film
was made at a time when Spielberg had great ideas, and knew how to
utilize the camera without selling out completely to Hollywood
standards. Nevertheless, Saving Private Ryan is very much Hollywood,
but that being said, it's a very eloquent rendition of that.If you remember anything about war movies, it's the anti-war ones that
make a difference and are the ones remembered. I firmly believe that
Saving Private Ryan is up with the best of that genre: namely Full
Metal Jacket and Platoon.Tom Hanks plays his role marvelously. He is forced to act as a liaison
between his crew's demands with the orders given to him, and it is
certainly isn't an easy task. This movie is probably one the most
accurate vignettes of the American World War II experience yet made.RATING: 9/10 "Please tell me that I am a good man, and that I have lived a good
life"  Private Ryan

******
31 May 2006
10
This film is a heartbreaker, because 53,000,000 men died - all over the
world - to prevent that deadly stunning Omaha Beach battle. Yet, came
The Korean War; the attempted invasion of Cuba; The Vietnamese War; The
Gulf War; The Somalian War (we turned-tail and ran); that mess in
Afghanistan (which has never been conquered); and now the fiasco in
Iraq, the cradle of civilization as we know it. There's a tale making
the rounds that our president was upset because "they tried to shoot my
Daddy", he wanted to get Sadam. Hmmmm.....how many times do you think
we've tried to do that? Doesn't assassination go with leadership?"Saving Private Ryan" should have been a graphic lesson that all wars
are useless bravado AND "hell"- except for those who win ! - because it
is inhumane for one sovereign country to attempt to dictate to another.
An anonymous commentator wrote "let's hope that this is the last war."
Have they been living in a vacuum for a couple of generations, or
perhaps too young to have experienced the horror of wartime? Perhaps WW
2 was supposed to be "the war to end all wars," but that completely
dismisses man's inhumanity toward man. Some races just don't like other
races, as we are seeing in Iraq - and they all are from the same race !
If you can read between the lines of the headlines today, the next war
will be over the lack of water or a specific religion.....or some
belligerents idiot will launch an atomic weapon that will destroy life
as we know it. If that is going to happen, please let me know when so I
can get right under it.No one has mentioned watching "Into the Breach", which depicts the
basic training-period the actors were forced to go through.....just
like regular "grunts". One of the actors stated he would not do that
again. All of them hated it, but all of their roles were greater for
having experienced it."Saving Private Ryan" is near perfect in all ways, acting through
direction through casting through cinematography through realism. My
opinion is that Tom Hanks underplayed his role to make a point that
ordinary men usually get the biggest responsibility in battle. It's
"the grunts" who do the fighting - the bigwigs are behind in a safe
area: "Blackhawk Down" serves as a perfect example. Sizemore WAS the
seasoned warrior, and played his role superbly. Barry Pepper (in an
entirely different role than in "The Green Mile") gave us a believable
soldier who took his fighting seriously, but asserting "The Lord in My
Shepherd". Masterful. Matt Damon was brilliant, as he is in all of his
roles; his statement "these are the only brothers I have left" was a
natural turning to those who had become his brothers. "Upham" made me
cry, because I understood his cowardice - he didn't try to hide it - it
was palpable. Quite frankly, I didn't recognize Ted Danson, quite a
star in his day, in the film. Spielberg knew what he was doing, and did
it.The most specific demonstration in this movie is how different the
fighters in "Saving Private Ryan" are from modern-day fighters:
"Jarhead" will show you that. Recruiting our youngest men to become
killers is criminal - except, some of them have no other route to make
their way in our world.We needed this movie - to remind us that we are on the way to a
collision with the rest of the world. Brits decried they were not part
of this battle - they were up at another beach, being killed just as
brutally. All of the countries involved made the same sacrifice. Our
Memorial Day honors all of those who lost their lives for freedom. If
we are looking for movies to merely demonstrate what a great
sound-system we have, that's pitiful.Until another ones comes along, "Saving Private Ryan" IS the best
war-picture we've had - everyone should see it.

******
11 March 2006
10
This is an excellent movie. It may be a little violent for a kid under
thirteen. This movie should be played in every history class studying
World War II. Once again, Steven Spielberg has created another
astounding masterpiece with an amazing cast and crew. Tom Hanks does an
amazing job performing as a soldier. Each actor/soldier have their own
unique personality. From the beginner soldier to the veteran
sniper.Yes, one could argue that this movie has its imperfections, but
few movies are PERFECTLY flawless. I liked "Saving Private Ryan" for
its depiction of D-Day at Normandy and how it ends the movie. This is
by far one of my favorite war films. If you weren't able to catch it in
the theaters, go watch it!

******
5 March 2006
10
As well as praise,this film also received a lot of criticism at the
time of it's release because of it's pro-American view.so what... This
IS an American financed film,made BY American's,FOR American audience's
with American actor's and the beach landing on Omagh were done BY
American servicemen. I can't see why SPR should be snubbed at because
of this,It wasn't the first and won't be the last war film to be made
from an American point of view."Saving private Ryan" is an excellent war film and deserve's it's
billing as one of the top 10 war movie of all time.The opening Omagh beach landing scene's are horrifically
realistic,showing the viewer as best a film can what it must of been
like for those men on that fatal morning in June 1944. When them
landing craft ramps went down all hell broke loss and the US Rangers
were just cannon fodder for the German's up above in their machine gun
bunker's. A lot as been said about the miss-leading of the Normandy
beach landing scene in the beginning of SPR,Some Viewer's of the film
say that the overload operation lead by the British,Canadian AND
American's were not as blood thirsty as has portrayed in this film. Yes
this true,It is a fact that only 1 out of every 7 allied soldiers
actually fired a weapon on D-Day. But Omagh was as chilling as it is
seen in SPR.After the first 30 minutes of one of the most graphically violent
battle scenes ever witnessed on screen the film moves onto it it's main
story.8 soldiers lead by capt Miller on a mission to find a private in
the 101st airborne division lost somewhere in Normandy so that he can
return him home to his mother after the US top brass as learned that
three of her sons have just been killed in combat.A bit of a PR mission
so to say. Through the mission the GI's tell us of their views of the
war and the mission they are on(whats the point of risking eight lives
to save one?) Some are killed in combat along the way as they meet
German opposition raising the pointless of the mission with anger among
the men.Till they eventually find pvt Ryan who as hooked up with
another platoon that are defending a bridge that the Germans want for
their counter attack.All this lead's to a grand finale battle between the American GI's and
the battle hardened waffen SS inside a bombed out Normandy village.The battle scenes in SPR are authentic enough ,first on Omagh after a
pinned down onslaught the rangers make easy pray of the German
troops,This is because the German regiment's along the Normandy coast
were mainly made up of eastern European conscripts captured from German
occupied territory in the east and forced to fight by the Nazi's in
German divisions.Hitler thought the main landing zone for the allies
would most likely be Calias.So the front line worriment were stationed
there. But in the final battle scene in this film the GI's faced much
more resilient opposition in the form of the SS who we see give the
American's a real fight.(The GI's are only saved from being wiped by
the SS thanks to an air attack on the German line by P51's)All in all "saving private Ryan" is an excellent movie if you like
bloody all out war battle scene's.The director Steven Spielberg brings
the killing scenes right up close to the camera.The script is OK but
can be a bit sentimentally at time's(trying to reason war through the
eye's of Spielberg..in dialogue from the characters by the way)but this
isn't enough of a problem to spoil the film.

******
29 December 2005
10
One of the greatest war films ever made, Saving Private Ryan is an
intense and graphic portrayal of the closing days of WWII. The film
captures accurately the sounds, reality, colour even the smells of the
war.Spielberg deserves praise for his charismatic contribution to this
masterpiece and he received it.Tom Hanks leads a suiting cast through the marshlands of Northern
France to rescue the last surviving Ryan brother after a direct request
from a high ranking official, risking his and his men's lives in the
dangerous path to rescue James Ryan."Superbly directed *****""Spielberg leaves the Holocaust and takes on the bloody D-Day invasion
in this beautiful war film depicting hell on earth""Saving Private Ryan is truly a superb example of undisputable,
nononsense film-making about the war. While not sentimental it is
extremely powerful. Undoubtedly the Best Picture of 98""Spielberg's direction, is so incredible in this film, that makes the
film so real it is unbelievable""One of the few war films that portray war as accurately as possible.
Hell. And Saving Private Ryan does that. It peaks in to the gates of
hell. Brutally realistic;uncomfortable; psychological... and ultimately
one of the best films to come out of America in the last 15 years"

******
27 December 2005
9
Everything in this film is perfect. It's hard to criticise this movie.Tom Hanks is brilliant in his role of Captain John Miller, a Ranger in
the American Army sent behind enemy lines with a small band of
soldiers, each unique in their own way, to retrieve a private from the
101st airborne who's 3 brothers had been killed in the previous weeks.Saving Private Ryan is an amazing insight into the "soldiers war" with
heart gripping scenes such as the opening landing on Omaha beach. It
leaves you feeling overwhelmed and humble. One of the superb things
about this film is that it manages to create a sort of relationship
between you and the individual soldiers.This is by far one of Hank's best films yet, and a true masterpiece
from Spielburg. You will not be disappointed with this. The camera work
is outstanding, with shots seen through the eyes of a moving soldier.
Every directorial aspect of this film draws out the horror and
suffering experienced by so many young men during the War.There is none of the cliché "American Hero" bravado you tend to see too
often in Hollywood. SPR shows the young boys of America at their
ultimate test. It shows the darker, personal side, when a grown man
cries and crumbles in the face of danger. A "must see"..

******
8 December 2005
9
Possibly the best war movie ever, both in terms of story and visuals.
No other war film has managed to convey the constant hell that was
World War II whilst at the same time illustrating the bonds of
comradeship between soldiers quite so effectively and movingly. The
film manages to be realistically graphic in its depiction of war and
its associated death and injuries, without being gratuitous with the
claret. No punches are pulled.The story opens with the D-Day landings on Omaha beach, filmed with
brutal realism, and then moves on to the mission of eight men who go
behind enemy lines to rescue one man. Each of the men begin to question
their orders, their place in the war, and the cost to their humanity.The film won countless awards for its realism and its harrowing story,
including Steven Spielberg garnering the Best Director Oscar. At the
same time however it never tries to present itself as historical fact,
rather a historical scenario with a fictional story placed on top. The
main mission may be fictional, but the sub-plots (such as the
importance of defending the bridge) are definitely based on fact. Tom
Hanks is superb as Captain Miller, the man assigned to lead the
retrieval unit sent behind enemy lines. Ed Burns, Barry Pepper, Adam
Goldberg, Giovanni Ribisi and Vin Diesel all provide competent
performances as brothers-in-arms, and Tom Sizemore is (unusually) the
rather understated Sergeant. The men form a strong bond (a bond between
men which would Spielberg would explore further with his Band of
Brothers mini-series) whilst undergoing a dehumanization process with
regards to their enemy. Matt Damon has little more than a cameo as the
eponymous Ryan. The film is both moving and gripping, and the
150-minute running time is barely felt, such is the intensity the
subject matter is dealt with. Further, such was the impact of the film
that several scenes (in particular the storming of Normandy beach) were
almost shot-for-shot recreated in the computer game Medal of Honor:
Allied Assault. The apparent waste of resources on this rescue mission
(a waste which is highlighted and questioned by the soldiers in the
chosen unit) is not only a poignant story but also serves to highlight
the sheer frustration of the waste and pointlessness of war in general.
Together with Schindler's list, Steven Spielberg has created two films
which are probably the finest monument to the Second World War and its
atrocities of modern times, and with these also cements his place as
the finest director of his generation.

******
2 December 2005
9
As a large fan of war movies, I can easily say that this is the most
realistic war movie I have ever seen. The sequences of battle, though
gruesome, convey the horrors and intensity of combat surrounding World
War II. Though the story is fictional, the invasion of Normandy was
depicted accurately and powerfully in great detail. Mechanical and
historical accuracy is evident most of the time. In the movie, Private
James Ryan is a paratrooper during World War II. During the invasion,
he is mislaunched and lands near a small French village. He has three
brothers who are also fighting in the war that have been killed in
action. When the commanders of the army realize this, they order a
rescue unit to retrieve Ryan and bring him home so that his mother does
not have to receive word that all of her sons have died in combat. The
leader of this unit is Captain John Miller (portrayed by Tom Hanks.)
The performances by him and the rest of the people he commands is
outstanding and the drama of the war is not underdone or overdone. For
those people who negatively criticize this move due to its gore should
realize that World War II was like that and the facts are being shown
as they are. They have not been tampered with which is an excellent
thing. Spielberg combined his past experience with superb acting,
special effects and history to create an incredible tapestry of
absolute cinematic brilliance. Easily the finest war movie ever
created.

******
16 August 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan shows the horrific sacrifice of the enlisted men in
World War 2 and how our freedom was won by a barbaric tactic to swarm
the beach with American, British, and Canadian troops and push the Nazi
Army back into the European countries which they dictated long before
he allies' invasion. 8 men risk their lives to save Private James Ryan so he can carry out
the family name. He was the remaining son of which his 3 brothers died.
Ryan is a paratrooper and jumped into deep behind enemy lines where
Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) and his men has to Save Private Ryan. Steven Spielberg shows us the heartfelt story, that will change the way
you think about world war 2.This is my favorite movie not because of
the gore and blood but the story of these 8 men risking their live for
one. One man. One out of all the troops in France,in Europe, in the
World.-Nags

******
15 August 2005
9
this is one of the most realistic war movies i have seen. it captures
the horror and drama of war through a very interesting plot. the scene
at d-day was a scene that followed me around for awhile. it showed how
unfair war can be. the men in the boats that were being raked by MG42s
had no chance to fight back. they just stood there and got killed. then
there was the wounded soldier that the three medics were trying to
save. they had managed to stop the bleeding but a chance stray bullet
hit the wounded soldier in the head, killing him instantly. this movie
was a great war movie that everyone should enjoy at some point in their
lives. there were some historical flukes like the reversal of the
password "flash" followed by "thunder." they said "thunder, flash."
otherwise, this movie was amazing.

******
23 December 2004
10
Saving Private Ryan received accolades from the U.S. Armed Forces for
its realistic depiction of D-Day. Common sense dictates that they could
have gone for lots more bloody-stump scenarios without violating the
prerequisite of "realistic". The fact that they made a profound
statement and didn't go that route speaks well of this movie project.Anyone who desires to serve their country by going into combat should
watch this one. The ideal of "Glory of Battle" would quickly be
dispelled. Real warfare is gross, sickening, chaotic, disgusting,
tragic. It must be a last resort, and one's motivation should be a very
deep sense of commitment to the cause of democracy. Not freedom to do
whatever one "feels like", but a concept of humanity that says everyone
has intrinsic value. This is what our theocentric founders had in mind
when they drafted the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence.Tom Hanks...and a fine cast!

******
14 November 2004
10
I've noticed, reading the reviews that a lot of the negative comments
are complaining that certain scenes aren't as good as similar ones in
other movies.It's a great movie. You can't just say that because certain parts
aren't as good as another movie that this one is bad. O.K. so what if it has been a little Hollywood-ized? (Is that right?
:S) Aren't most movies?It's like some people think "I'm not gonna like this movie" before they
actually watch it, so all through they're just picking any pointless
little thing to bitch about.

******
14 November 2004
10
All I have to says is that ABC deserves awards for showing an uncut
version of this superb epic on Veteran's Day. ABC did this despite any
possible FCC stuff coming back at them. 66 affiliates got scared. When
you watch the movie, which you can't really call a movie, you don't
even notice the language because it PUTS you in the middle of Southern
France in June of 1944. Veteran's Day needs to be honored like Memorial
Day in this country, as a real holiday, not some holiday like Lincoln's
Birthday. People fight for our country and have died for it virtually
every day for 3 years, the Persian Gulf, and of course the countless
numbers from Vietnam, the forgotten war, Korea, and WW2 which is beyond
well represented in this film.

******
27 October 2004
10
hmm, Steven Spielberg was as phenomenal as usual with the directing of
this epic milestone, Tom Hanks's performance was as intriguing as it
can get, all the characters had their separate uniqueness. Captain John
Miller, played by Hanks is a retired school teacher who struggles to
accept the reality he and his men are in, even though he hides his true
emotions from his group, he afterwards shows his feelings towards the
mission, Sgt. Mike Horvath (Tom Sizemore) plays one of the most
important parts in this film, he's the captain's closest friend and
companion, his respect towards the captain is more than acceptable,
Private Richard Reiben (Edward Burns) is the desperate soldier who
shows his frustration and anger towards the mission, and another guy,
Private Jackson (Barry Pepper) is the silent and confident sniper, his
character is to me the best in the film, part of it is because of how
he praises The Lord while blowing the Germans away. It all gives the
viewer a sense of belief. The story characterizes the true monstrosity
and utter horror that is war. Especially WW2, until i saw this did i
realize the importance of knowing what our heroes went through every
day then, something to admire. Plot, Cast, (only minus was the
apparently non-existent allies) but nevertheless, great film. The large
content gives the viewer an overwhelming view of reality and how
gruesome people can be during war time, its an emotional film and
definitely one to remember. 10/10.

******
21 October 2004
10
It amazes and sickens me how people judge movies by the quality of the
message, or how many goofs it has, or whatnot, and when the movie
doesn't live up to these targets, they decry it as not having a single
piece of value.It's unrealistic. So what? It portrays American soldiers without giving
a glance to the British, Canadians, whatever. Way to go, political
correct soldiers!I don't give a toss about any of that crap. I bought the DVD to see a
good movie, and I got a good movie. A movie with touching emotion, gory
battle scenes, and an unrealistic tragic plot that warms the heart.That's what I'm looking for. Now, while I'm not asking you politically
correct legions to change your minds about how you perceive this movie,
but for heaven's sake, how fun/touching/whatever this movie is has
nothing to do with how many non-American soldiers are included.Get off the "let's hate America" boat. Just because some loser thinks
going to war for oil is fun doesn't give you licence to insult
Americans who did die for a good cause. (No bad feelings meant for
those who do give the American soldiers in WWII credit.)And for the record, I'm not American, nor have I ever set foot on
European nor American soil.

******
14 October 2004
10
Honestly Steven Spielberg is a movie making GENIUS! This along with
'Schindler's List' are the best films in my opinion ever made. The
photography the scripts the acting the visual effects are all 100%
brilliant, in both these films. Saving Private Ryan is about one man(
Tom Hanks ), leading his troops into the depths of war; to save Private
James Ryan ( Matt Damon ), and bring him home to his desperate mother.
A warning to all those people who can not handle GRAPHIC WAR scenes,
this is the most horrific and brutal war movie ever made. It depicts
war at its worst. This film will make you think twice about supporting
'any' war at all. However Spielberg directed this, will be a mystery to
me; it looks SO REAL. Tom Hanks is brilliant, 'as always' along with an
up and coming actor who steals the show BARRY PEPPER, he is most
powerful.I advise people who want to see a 'master at work' see SAVING PRIVATE
RYAN!!!!!Paul

******
6 October 2004
9

Saving private Ryan is according to me one of the most realistic
war-movies ever made. In the beginning of the movie we see an old
veteran visiting the graves of the people who lost their lives in an
effort to save Ryan. In this movie we see the madness of war and the
traumas which people carry all their lives with them. In this movie a
group American soldiers get the mission to save Ryan because in his
family already some brothers fell on the battlefield and the code wants
that the last brother must be saved. This movie shows actually the
madness about the fact that more people have to die for saving one
life. The beginning of the movie is very realistic when the Americans
reach Omaha Beach and i think that in that time it was like that
because thousands of soldiers did not even have the chance to reach the
beach but after a long battle the German defence breaks which meant the
beginning of the Liberation. The Germans expected that the Allies
should cross the Canal so the most troops were stationed over there
which coursed weak points in the German defence at Omaha Beach. The
actors like Tom Hanks delivered a very realistic movie about the
madness of war which some personalities create in this world, even
today. A 9 out of 10 they deserve for sure.


******
18 September 2004
10

"Saving Private Ryan" is not a mindless charade of "the glory of war";it goes much, much deeper than probably any war film I have seen. It
explores the fellowship of men banding together to save one private so
that they ("can go home to (their wives)"), and the brutal obstacles
they encounter, in the unpredictable situation of war. We witness an
unforgettable, impeccable account of the most notorious siege in war
history, "D-Day" in such personal, graphic, and unflinching detail that
we find ourselves aboard the ships, swimming to the bloody shores, in
the scorn of relentless battle. The direction throughout the film is
superb: sincere, unapologetic, and poignant, as Spielberg takes us on a
historical journey through the plights of these heroic men, and we
witness every horror, every tragedy, and every act of courage which
comprises the uncertain, the most fatal of situations, war. We are
compelled by these soldiers' personal stories: their desires to someday
return home and tell of their heroism to their grandchildren, to live
happy, complete lives after this dangerous task. We are emerged into
battle as the Americans and Germans are desperate and unrelenting in
witnessing the others' demise, as this is the constant case of war. The
ruins of the towns and its horrified citizens crying for mercy cause us
to shudder with graveness and sympathy, as we encounter the unfortunate
cost of war. The music is hearty and reverent, the sounds of the
trumpets saluting those heroes, survived and fallen, and victims of
war; from the brutal plights of battle, to the starking realization of
survival being the only hope, to the grim deliverance to a mother a
notice that her child has fallen in war; it is beautiful, passionate,
and reinforces a theme of elegy prevalent throughout the film. This is
one somber, reflective, and honest account of the last great war, and
it is touching, engaging, and uncompromising in its infallible homage
to a time of sacrifice and the men who comprise that honor. The best
war movie I have ever seen. **** out of ****


******
26 July 2004
9

What can I say about this movie that has not been said already? I saw
it in the theater with my father and my grandfather who was in the US
Armed Air Forces (8th) during WW2 and retired a Major to raise a family
back in the US. The Army wanted him back for Korea but he had already
served voluntarily since Pearl Harbor was bombed. Three of his brothers
also served in combat and luckily all made it out alive. I loved this movie so much, it had the saddest but also happiest ending
and so many terrific scenes in between. In the beginning we are not
informed that the reason the US had so many casualties was due to
errors made by those planning air drops and bombings, the troops should
have had more support but the Armed Air Forces was apparently 50 miles
up the coast from Normandy. The characters in this film are well formed
and as a viewer you feel a connection to all of them. There are so many heroic actions and stories that came out of WW2,
Saving Private Ryan, will remain a great one for all generations even
if it is not based entirely on true events. If you haven't seen it go
rent it NOW!


******
7 July 2004
10

This movie is cinematic perfection. Flawless down to every detail. It
conveys better than any film to have come before, and I believe that
will ever come in the future, that war is hell on earth. An absolute
must see for anyone remotely interested in movies. You'll wince, you'll
cry, and at times you'll barely be able to process what's transpiring
on screen, but you'll know that you're seeing an unrivaled masterpiece.
It is the greatest war movie ever made, BY FAR. Nothing else even comes
close. It is also one of the best films ever made. I believe it is in
the top 5. It certainly rests firmly in good company in my opinion. I
have heard many people complain that it is heavy handed, and that it
uses overwhelming images to bash the audience into submission. This is
an absurd notion. Whoever heard of war being subtle?


******
3 July 2004
8

this is the movie of my life... maybe thats why i like the movies that
includes real stories and some history.. and I'm interested in WW2 very
much..Scenes are very effective that when i saw SPR the first time i was in a
terrible shock in the first 20 min. cause i had never seen scenes like
that in a war film before.. i was always a man who kills 50 100 people
himself before.. but i saw SPR and i got the real idea about war.. fear
and blood..i think SPR opened a new path on war films.. lots of films made that
just to be like SPR, after it. but i think they never reached the
throne.." Saving Private Ryan" is the best and always be...


******
27 June 2004
9

There is nothing bad to say about this movie. It has everything that a good
war movie should have - emotion, good scenery, good action, etc.This movie sets the tone for what war movies should really be like.
Spielberg does a fabulous job of directing this movie. I also have to give a
lot of credit to Hanks, Burns, Siezemore, and all the other actors and
actresses that made this movie the best that it truly could be.This movie has totally changed my opinion on war movies and I now see what a
war movie should really be like. What was once my favorite war movie has
changed because I saw this movie. That is how good this movie
is.

******
21 June 2004
5

I am tempted to trash this movie because of all the pathetic ratings
claiming this to be the best war movie of all time. It is actually
pretty good, typical Spielberg mass-market melodrama (and yes, with an
appallingly one-sided perspective).But you have seen it already, right?? Before getting all emotional,
think about the far-fetched premise of the movie (and don't say it was
based on a real story, the Sullivan brothers story is different after
the first line), the silly fight between the (previously released)
diabolical German and the Jewish US soldier, etc.Then go see some other good war films (Gallipoli and Das Boot are among
my favorites). If you are objective and over 18, my guess is you will
agree that SPR will not stand the test of time


******
3 June 2004
10

Ever since I was 12, I've read hundreds of books, seen dozens of movies
and did almost anything that has to do with the second world-war. For
me, this period of time which changed the world forgood has also
changed my life and my view on the world as it is today. Almost 4 years into my WWII obsession, I heard about this project from
the same director who made Shindler's list. Then the first
screenshots... M1 carabines, MP40's and Tiger-tanks... I couldn't wait. Sitting there, in the pitch-dark, The movie starts with the absolutely
great sound's from the orchestra lead by John Williams. Seeing the old
man walking towards the huge graveyard, with his family on the
background, with obviously increasing emotions, the camera hides behind
one of the graves, not revealing the name on it. Fade out.What came next is almost indescribable. A group of extremely nervous
American soldiers are standing in a landing-vessel, bouncing on the
waves, a last walkthrough of the tactics&objectives and then the words
no-one wanted to hear: 30 SECONDS!! CLEAR THE RAMPS! Never ever had I experienced such an intense scene. I seriously totally
forgot I was in a cinema. I felt like I was flying above the beach like
a ghost. Absolutely uncomparable to any other scene I had ever seen.If I go on like this, describing all scenes, i would need 225 web-pages
and 2 weeks to write it down. Since I lack the time, i'll give a short
summary. From this scene on, Spielberg lets us join the march of some
survivors, who are send by High command to find the youngest of 4
brothers, 3 of which died. He must and will return safely to his
mother. We follow these soldiers, move with them and inside them.
Encountering only some Germans (which, after Omaha itself, are all
Waffen-SS which is weird, since the main force of the Waffen-SS did not
join the fight until several days later). As the search for Ryan
continues, so does the search for the answer to the question of
questions... why do we fight? Spielberg brilliantly links the search
for that answer to the actual deeds of all the individual soldiers. He
shows, better than any director before, that soldiers are not
blindly-orders-following-men, but individuals who are thrown into a war
and fight it their own unique way. After a both sad and hilarious mistake, they finally manage to find
Ryan.. who turns out to be unwilling to return home until he completed
the task he and his team were supposed to do with the few remnants of
his battlegroup. That task is to defend a small bridge in a small town
-the only remaining bridge in the area- until reinforcements have
arrived. Captain Miller is forced to stay and help until this
objective is reached.The final battle that follows is again a masterpiece. Spielberg
obviously wanted to reach the highest level of historical accuracy.
Everything, from the socks they wear up to the tanks they fight, is
historically correct (I must note that the Tiger-tanks are not real
ones, but are in fact T-34 (russian) tanks converted to tigers- only
the running gear gives this away, but hey, there are no real Tigers
which move available up to today, so still great job). This final
battle again shows the true horrors of war: all but 3 or 4 die.Alltogether, the mixture of hand-held cameras and static ones, the
moving characters, the music, the brilliant storyline and the
breathtaking action made this movie one worth of viewing 25 times up to
today -and more often to come- for me. Even for those totally
uninterested in WWII: Just go and see this one, with theatre-surround
of course. You most certainly will never forget it.


******
1 June 2004
10

it has been said a lot of times about this film showing the truth about
war. yes, there are splattered blood all around. yes, some scenes are
unbearable to some. yes, i saw that guy cry "momma!", and was disturbed
by it. but it is war. here we see what soldiers undergo, what they
encounter before we call the heroes, be it dead or alive. spielberg has
a keen eye on detail, like the first part where the soldiers go
underwater, where you could hear gunfire as the soldiers head goes
above the water, then silence when underwater. i can't see anything
wrong with it: the story, visuals, sound, all are top-notch. movies
like this are what make directors legends, just like mr. spielberg.


******
30 May 2004
6

The only good thing about this film is the realistic depiction of the
landing. Even that, 
though, comes off as patchy and episodic; you aren't really left with a good
sense of what 
happened. When you consider Cornelius Ryan's book about D-Day, this is the
polar opposite: 
there are no details. One minute you see people being blown up and floating
in the water, 
then people getting their guts blown out on the beach, then the tanks are
moving inland.Actually, to me, this film continues to have a core strength that is very
interesting very far 
into the film. When I saw it, I was realizing that the ending was coming and
I didn't hate it 
yet, and was frankly amazed. But then, all the cheese I expected of the
Spielberg/Hanks 
combo came out with a vengeance in the finale. Steven Spielberg is a hackneyed stooge. He's lucky that he came up at the
same time that the 
movies were turning into titilation machines. He'd have starved in the '40s.
Five minutes of 
Orson Welles' worst film make his career look like a joke.

******
27 May 2004
10

This was a great movie. I've seen it a couple times but appreciated it
even more after watching the Band of Brothers series. In fact after
watching Band of Brothers and seeing Saving Private Ryan afterwards I
noticed that Ryan and his group were all part of the 101st Airborne
Easy Company. They mention it a few times later in the movie especially
when they first meet up with Private Ryan in the field. Interesting
link. Probably why Tom Hanks put the Band of Brothers series together
in the first place. I recommend Saving Private Ryan. Excellent effect
and camera work! Put you right in the battle especially at the
beginning of the film. Not for the faint of heart.


******
18 May 2004
9

Saving Private Ryan is a superb war epic that will probably be
remembered in the far future, revising the Second World War very
accurately. It begins with the title character, James Ryan as an old
man surrounded by his family; whereby are visiting the grave of a very
important person in Ryan's life. The film then very quickly takes a new
approach, as we begin to learn the story of the beginning of the film,
and just who this person is.Moving onto the famous D-day landing; an event that very few war films
have portrayed, especially in such graphic detail, then moves beyond
the beach, and through wrecked towns and cities in France. The film
then progresses as the title of the film is explained, and new
characters are introduced and lost, demonstrating the real horror of
war.The film in general is about a solider, who has been unlucky enough to
lose three of his brothers in combat, leading to a special, dangerous
mission. Captain John Miller, (Tom Hanks) must take his men behind
enemy lines to find Private James Ryan, an American solider situated
somewhere in France. The men question their orders, but continue to
embark on the mission. As Ryan, becomes nearer, the mission becomes
harder, and soon, most of the characters are suddenly killed, including
Captain Miller, the name on the grave at the opening sequence of the
film!Although very well acted, and involving a gripping story line, it is
fair to say the story should be more realistic as this story is
extremely unlikely to happen in the real World War 2.


******
14 May 2004
7
A whole family of young men are killed on D-Day bar a front line
solider (Private Ryan) who must be pulled back from the battle field
for the sake of his poor mother.Steven Spielberg is a director that I feel is vastly over-rated. While
I admit he has produced both classics (in artistic terms) and
blockbusters (in commercial terms) is he really that good? Is he really
able to rise above the budget, acting, technology or script? Does he
believe in anything? Have a grand message for the world other than it
is good to be rich and famous? A nice guy, sure, but so is my milkman.Call me a hard man to please, but I don't believe that Spielberg has
put anything really new in the cinema pot and he has dipped in and
borrowed plenty: Hitchcock, Scorsese, Kubrick and Kazan have all
produced mini-masterpieces from nowhere with no stars or budget to
speak of. Spielberg hasn't (although Juggernaut was above average for a
TV movie).As has been said a thousand times before, the opening takes a first
hand look at D-day and is quite brilliant, but when it ends the movie
droops. It is then a bog-standard war-is-hell product with a lot of
extra emoting and men-can-cry to show that we have turned the page. (Actually we haven't - many European films and B's have explored war
from a first hand and more down-and-gritty viewpoint, but the mass
audience haven't actually seen those products so they just think they
are getting something new.)Tom Hanks is a great actor. He is the first and only modern star to
play weak (or even stupid) and improve his box office standing. I
praise him for it. No one could be better than him here, really bang on
the money. But no one else needs to do much other than mouth words and
Ryan (despite being the title role) is a star walk-on. I am glad I saw this film and I recommend it to you. But I wouldn't
want to see it again no matter own it. Money has been well spent and
its heart is in the right place, but at the end it wants to get you in
a headlock and push emotions down your throat. Further proof - in my
book - as to why Spielberg isn't really the master of his own game,
just a little above average at it.

******
14 May 2004
10

Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war films ever. It starts off with
the beach landing, which is so realistic. The sounds of the waves crashing
onto the beach is magnificent. I love that bit. You would think it was an
actual war on the T.V. The beach landing is gruesome! Arms being blown off,
guts hanging out of people, soldiers being shot, people getting blown to
bits etc. It is the most violent films ever. The story is about 8 (I think) U.S. soldiers that set out on a quest to
bring Pvt. James Ryan back home after his 3 brothers were killed. On there
Journey they have more firefights, which are again very
violent.It stars, Tom Hanks (Capt. John Miller), Tom Sizemore (Sgt. Michael
Harvath), Edward Burns (Pvt. Richard Reiben), Matt Damon (Pvt. James Ryan),
Jeremy Davis (Cpl. Timothy E. Upram), Barry Pepper (Pvt. Daniel Jackson),
Adam Goldberg (Pvt. Stanley Mellish), Vin Diesel (Pvt. Adrain Caparzo),
Giovanni Ribishi (Pvt. Irwin Wade) and Ted Danson (Capt. Fred
Hamill).And that's about it, I recommend Saving Private Ryan to any war film
lovers.Rating - (10/10) *****

******
21 March 2004
10

Hidden beneath the spectacular and involving action sequences in this film
is Steven Spielberg's vision of just what it means to be an American. For
Spielberg, its not just the flag-waving patriotism of the armchair
soldier,
but the true heroic notion of sacrifice for fellow man. Time and again
during the battle scenes, we see his emphasis on the anonymous "dog face"
who has given his own life to further their cause. Medics die saving the
wounded. Others die saving children. And an entire mission is dedicated to
save one man.The contrast is shown in the form of Corporal Upham, the tag-along
interpreter, who has not yet learned this notion of sacrifice. His
inaction
in crucial moments sets him apart from the rest.Captain John Miller is the ultimate embodiment of Spielberg's theme. He is
an uncommonly common man, as plain and unremarkable as his name, but with
a
steadfast sense of purpose, and humble in his brilliance. His final
instruction to Private Ryan is a message to us all.While touched on in many of Spielberg's other films, this is his most
consistent rendering of that belief. A magnificent film which should not
be
missed.


******
20 March 2004
10

WOW!  Tom Hanks in Saving Private Ryan!  This was one of the most
authentically made World War II movies ever made.  Tom Hanks did a fantastic
job playing a soldier during WWII who did as he was told, regardless of how
he personally felt about the task at hand.  My husband retired after 30
years of Army service and loves to "critique" military movies (being a
military buff himself).  Even he was hard pressed to find a "mistake" in
this movie!  The movie takes you from the landing on the beaches to the
impossible task of locating a single man, Private Ryan.  In between the
search for this man, we are delighted with excellent character development
of the company sent out to search for Private Ryan.  We are able to gain a
little insight of what it might have been like for men of various
backgrounds coming together and united for a single cause.  Their banter,
individual histories, prewar occupations, state of residence, & individual
thoughts made each character feel so real that by the end of the movie you
felt like you knew them - they WERE real.  Movies like "Saving Private Ryan"
are wonderful for your adults to watch.  Kids don't appreciate history or
really take in the events they are taught in school.  Movies such as "Saving
Private Ryan" help to generate interest in history for the young.  For the
older population, we simply appreciate (or remember) the time period and
feel proud of our spouse or a family member who served during WWII. 
Warning:  have plenty of tissues by your chair for this movie!   


******
13 March 2004
10

To many the story of Saving Private Ryan starts with the landings at
Normandy and the incredibly realistic depiction of D-Day June
6,1944,however
there is first the subtle and unexpected deliverance of James Ryan to the
headstone of Captain John Miller whereby the story is told of a time past
when something of what we love was lost forever.The emotional place where
this very fine movie goes is to our ability here today to talk to each
other
as though this was merely a motion picture and not the roll call for our
honored dead.Though we are through James Ryans eyes taken back to when
Captain Millers company is approaching the beach head at Omaha in one of
those Higgins boats we are drawn into perhaps one of the most incredible
movie scenes ever done.It is almost to terrible to elaborate,however thats
the way it is.I do not feel this was meant to be an anti-war theme however
if you want to know what it was like or perhaps what it might be like this
is a good film to watch.This is a no-holds barred look at that action.For
the record,this landing zone was called Omaha,and I believe it was the
most
difficult of the 5 landing zones.However we did establish a beach head and
as the dates of history will show within 1 year we were to meet with our
Allies in Berlin.This is a unforgettable war movie that should not be
missed.I will express only a reservation about some of the attempts at a
protest position against war.The inability to properly put a prisoner of
war
permanently out of the action was not I believe worthy and when that big
bad
Nazi did that deed to kill one of our guys and was not killed as a result
was cowardice under action.I think that was pretty bad and in fact cost us
because he could of engaged the enemy before the enemy even went any where
near the staircase.Some of the emotional purges seem very much over the
top
but it seems to provide a very convincing ability to convey the deadly
seriousness of what we were involved in,when a voice says to Captain
Miller,"thats quite a view,"and Miller says "yes it is,"That is when we
get
a view of what is forever lost,a sacrifice which on the field at
Gettysburg,Pa Abraham Lincoln said that these honored dead should not have
died in vain but gave there full measure so that we may increase our
devotion and know a new beginning in defense of the republic.The banter is
hard to predict but perhaps that was then this is now,however the final
battle scene is hard to handle that was a very demanding challenge and boy
did things heat up.Excellent war time footing and you dont loose
concentration.I actually thought that If I could we would want God to know
that we love each other for the bravery,honor,and life that we are being
asked to provide so this Private James Ryan might know a future,and his
decendents as well.If you had paid attention Jim Ryans family was there,
children and all.A job well done Captain Miller,Thank You.To you Rangers
of
the Omaha Landings,my heart.

******
7 March 2004
10

Saving Private Ryan, a film that covers material that has been both
harnessed and flauntered, is a rarity.  Ryan, as a jarring, gripping war
film manages to address and touch nine of the ten human emotions without
losing site of the story.  The film grabs you off the screen, as Tom Hanks
plays the captain of a platoon, which, as noble, brave, and righteous as
they may be, are nonetheless a band of young men.  Capt. Jon Miller
embodies
the man whom we all would want to be - a courageous leader of men who has
earned the respect of his subordinates - without blurring the fact that he
is a man - one with a life outside such a hideous display of humanity.
Very
rare are movies where we follow a group of people and feel like we have
gotten to know each and every one by the end - at least to the degree
which
the excellent script permits.

******
11 January 2004
10

Saving Private Ryan is without doubt the best World War 2 movie to
date.
The attention to detail of the sets is amazing, especially the damaged
German towns and the opening beach invasion. None of the gore through out
the movie is left out and the viewers see what it was really
like.
This is a memorable movie based on a real event.Superb. 


******
1 January 2004
9

Is "Saving Private Ryan" the greatest war movie ever made? I don't think
I've seen one better. If there is one better, I don't think I could manage
to sit through it, anyway. Though it is intense, violent, and bloody, it
is
also entertainment, albeit of the profoundest kind. Even those viewers who
normally pass up opportunities to be shocked and appalled by on-screen
violence should not deny themselves the chance of seeing this great film
at
least once.People discussing this picture tend to agree on one thing: The Omaha Beach
sequence that starts the story proper is the high point of the picture. I
concur. It throws some awful imagery at the viewer, making you feel like
you
are a part of the landing. As bullets rip into the innards of men around
you, you almost feel like you are in mortal danger. But the sequence works
not because of the bloodiness, but because of the pacing. Despite the
objections of some, director Stephen Spielberg doesn't push your face in
gore unrelievedly, but creates a story in this sequence that has a clear
beginning, middle, and end. Spielberg makes you feel the human cost of the
battle in some small way (he never pretends to be capturing all of it) but
keeps the camera focused on characters like Tom Hanks's Cpt. Miller and
Tom
Sizemore's Sgt. Horvath who you feel are going to make it through at least
this fight. Much of the carnage is shown in small flashes, or in the
corners
of the frame. At the risk of trivializing the actual conflict, the result
is
like a rollercoaster ride, a mighty daunting one that you feel some
measure
of achievement after you sit through it once, and actually grows more
powerful with repeat viewings, which is not as horrible once you have seen
it once and gotten a good idea who lives and dies.The rest of the film can only pale in comparison, and is often unfairly
dismissed for losing some of the momentum of Omaha. But how could any
director, however great, sustain such momentum? And who would want
to?Instead, the film goes into a section that I think is even more affecting,
when we see the typing pool where female clerks rattle out pro forma
letters
from "Joes" who speak in male voices about how each casualty was the
finest
and best soldier they ever had the privilege of serving with. Then one
woman
notices her letter is addressed to the same mother as another she just
finished typing, and the central plot is set in motion. Three brothers
have
been killed in action, it turns out, and a fourth is missing in action and
must be found. Harve Presnell as George C. Marshall, U.S. Army Chief of
Staff, recites from memory a letter sent by Abraham Lincoln nearly a
century
ago, in the process giving one of the most powerful performances in a
movie
full of them, and then we get a sequence that visually quotes Norman
Rockwell as Mrs. Ryan wordlessly gets word of `the sacrifice she has laid
on
the altar of freedom.' Watching her collapse on her porch as the priest
emerges from the black sedan is not easily done with dry eyes, because we
understand by then how commonplace this sort of thing was.There are moments of humor in "Saving Private Ryan," too, much of it from
Tom Hanks' central performance. His laconic comment when a German on a
loudspeaker announces "the Statue of Liberty is kaput" is priceless, and
even as the body count mounts, there is a sense of this somehow being made
endurable by the company of Miller and his men. Hanks keeps his schtick in
harness most of the time, but when he does allow for some jocularity, we
are
actually grateful.The film slips a couple of times, but not in any major way. The biggest
misstep for me was when Miller goes off and cries after losing one man.
It's
the one episode of actorly indulgence in a film that otherwise steers
clear
of such theatrics, though it may work for others.Even the final battle for the town of Remmel, though fictional, is done in
a
realistic and committed way. Some of the most violent and gruesome moments
occur here, and they are all the more difficult to endure because we now
know the soldiers fighting and dying in a way we didn't at
Omaha.The music by John Williams and the cinematography by Janusz Kaminski are
simply brilliant, neither calling your attention as they serve their
scenes
in an efficient manner. The sound, the editing, all are of a high order
and
will no doubt inspire moviemakers for generations to come.People who say `Saving Private Ryan' is not war but Hollywood are right,
but
miss the point. This is an example of Hollywood getting it right, and
creating something enduring. I will always be thankful I managed to sit
through "Ryan" once, because it made me want to see it again. Give this
film
the same chance, and I bet you will agree.


******
21 December 2003
10
Does anyone remember seeing Saving Private Ryan for the first time?  When it
opened in summer 1998?  Before all those good reviews and history teachers
guilted you into watching it?  Before it lost Best Picture to Shakespeare in
Love?Most people, I think, don't.  So much praise was heaped on this film on its
initial release and so much outrage was expressed when it was passed over in
favor of Shakespeare in Love, it's hard to enter this movie "clean" and with
a fresh mind.  It always surprises me when a fellow movie buff calls Ryan
"overrated", and I can't help but think that they're judging this movie on
its reputation rather than its quality.Yet watch Saving Private Ryan without the critical baggage: this is truly a
great film.  The much-discussed, stunning opening- and it is stunning- is
followed by a war narrative that's every bit as good as Schindler's List. 
Anyone with a soul should have a powerful response to this movie, and
positive or negative, there is little denying it is a testament to the
profundity of cinema.

******
16 December 2003
10

I realized that I was watching a masterpiece about ten minutes through,
when
a soldier was lying on the beach, holding his intestines and yelling
"Mama!"Not much else to say besides MY FAVORITE MOVIE, besides that Vin Diesel
gives a great performance (Only because he was killed off
quickly.)

******
28 November 2003
10

The movie Saving Private Ryan displays the some of the many horrors and
consequences people experience while at war. This movie is so good that
it
should be mandatory for people to watch this movie at least once. Don't
like
bloody war movies, then too bad. You still need to know what it was like
for
those many brave soldiers who encountered those harsh experiences. Saving
Private Ryan delivers what should be just as close to what war is realy
like. You'll be touched more than you've ever been touched by any other
movie in your entire life.10/10. 

******
20 October 2003
7

I dare you to find a better war film than this. It is the most
historically
accurate war movie there has been.
The cast is top notch, with some of the biggest names taking all the
parts,
providing the best mix of people becoming a new family on the battle
field.
The plot is as real to life as any. The reactions potrayed by each actor
to
the near pointless mission they are sent on shows the contrast between the
people sent to war, yet they all pull together and march to the beat of
the
drummer.To sum up, watch this film. If there was a list of film that had to be
watched before you die, this would be number 1 on my list


******
9 October 2003
10

I didn't see Tom Hanks as being able to carry this role well, so I chose
not
to see this film until it was released on video - I wish now I had seen it
on the big screen. The atmospherics and realism (I guess) of the battle
scenes (Omaha Beach) was mesmorising and not equalled by other recent war
films. And surprisingly for me, I felt that Hanks carried the role well -
with another fine performance by Tom Sizemore. 

******
2 September 2003
10

This truly is the greatest war movie ever. I wish I could vote higher
than
10 for this one. The first 20 minutes of this movie is so intense, it
almost
has to be viewed on the big screen to fully appreciate it.
Awesome!!

******
28 August 2003
10

No movie can compete with 'saving private Ryan' for the feeling of being
in
war. From the opening scene's horrifying depiction of war's unreasonable
killing, to the final's quite before the storm.  Only Dr. Strangelove can
compete with this is terms of making an anti-war film out of the horrors
of
war. 10/10

******
6 August 2003
10

Being a war movie addict, I just had to see this movie. I was not let
down
one bit.This one is just as good as Platoon. I am sorry, I loved that one. This
movie is very realistic. Awesome sounds and real scenes. It makes you
feel
so close to the fighting. 

******
1 August 2003
10

No doubt about it, I'm a big fan of "Saving Private Ryan."  In my humble
opinion, those who don't appreciate this movie are a bit too nit-picky.
Some say it is an anti-war movie.  Others call it "flag waving b@llsh*t."
In truth I don't think the film was trying to be either, although you
could
feel the respect Spielberg has towards military veterans.  Also, just
because the movie doesn't portray everything exactly like it happened
doesn't mean it lacks realism.  I believe most people who saw the movie
could relate to the characters and their displays of emotion.  You could
feel the fear in the battle scenes, the grief when Ryan's mother fell to
the
porch after seeing the chaplain get out of the car.  You could relate to
the
homesickness of the troops who had gone months, if not years, away from
home
fighting a war on foreign soil.  I have never seen another movie that had
as
large of an emotional impact on me as this one did.  "The Thin Red Line"
doesn't even come close.

******
7 July 2003
10

I'm stuck in Norway at the moment. These people just can't stop being
ironic
and ignorant and poppin' my chops over the Gulf War. Luckily, there was an
article the other day about fine, T3, model chick, Kristanna Loken, and
how
she has a couple Norwegian roots. This was able to steal the wars
attention.Anyway, the question is, after all the American war movies that have been
coming out, how can you blame 'em for this anti-America, world cop
crap.Some are just action movies in disguise, searching for reason and realism.
Others are more serious and want to show us that war sucks. Right. Heard
of
that before.So, we're at war, fighting people all over the world. Something that often
isn't clear enough is why are we fighting? The characters are heroic but
robotic. They sloughter with no questions asked.Saving Private Ryan does ask these questions. The characters want to
follow
the system and obey their orders, but they can't help but question and
doubt
it. The military isn't a machine which is oiled and fueled. Soldiers are
not
robots. This is are army and it isn't perfect, but we're doing what we can
and we're proud Americans.Besides this is WWII. The one war where we had support of most of these
big
European countries, so we don't need to explain to them what we're
fighting
for. Some of the other sides involved in this war even complained that we
were hogging to much of the credit in this movie. That's when you know
you're doing something right.So, we need more war movies like Saving Private Ryan because it gives you
the naked thruth about the military. A relief. It will make you a man, not
a
robot. So, war movies should be walking in the footsteps of this
masterpiece
or we'll be coming up short on manpower.But the machines are taking over anyway, right? Just look at Arnie back
down
in Cali."My mission is to protect you."

******
15 June 2003
10

This is an epic war film of survival and heroic behavior. This movie was
full of excitement. Tom Hanks gives an exciting performance and will give
you a look at that truth of real war. Steven Speilberg shows the world how
great this war really was and how important it was in our history. Saving
Private Ryan is an EXTRAORDINARY film. 

******
26 April 2003
10

I watched this film for the first time.  Initially, seeing the headlines
and
the trailers, I expected a typical wartime drama.  Plenty of blood, guts,
heroics, and swearing.  Well, naturally, that was included.  Spielberg
brought the reality of war to the screen.  Remember, ladies and gentlemen,
it may be a movie, but this is something that real boys went through.
Something our troops today are going through right now in different
nations
across the world.I felt that the film asked us all a question:  Is our life and the way we
live our life, worth the sacrifices that past generations of Veterans
fought
for and gave their lives for?  Are we worth their sacrifice?  It is a
reminder that our freedom, the freedoms we take for granted, even forget,
came with a very heavy price.  A price we will continue to pay until the
entire world can agree to respect the freedom of each and every soul on
this
earth.The film was wonderful, and it left an impact on me, as was its intention.
It had a powerful storyline and was amazingly well directed.  Even the
look
and style of the cinematography was superb.  I rented it, but I will be
looking into buying it.  It's a story that we should all be reminded of
every once awhile.  Even if you do not prefer war dramas, at least
remember
the story and remember the brave men and women who strive every day to
keep
us free.

******
26 March 2003
10

This is definitely the best movie ever made. It was simply a brilliant
peace
of work, Steven Spielberg has actually made a better movie than
Schindler's
List. Everything about the movie was superior to all other movies, the
acting, the camera shots, the war scenes, the music, and just the overall
story. I loved this movie, it shows the ultimate American spirit, and if
it
shoves patriotism down people's throats, well so be it. If you live in the
United States you should feel patriotic and blessed to live in America.
The
graphic nature of the movie is so necessary for one to get the feel of
war.
The movie wouldn't have been as good if it didn't have all the blood and
carnage, no one knows what war is like unless they've been in war, or if
they've seen Saving Private Ryan. Easy 10/10!

******
3 February 2003
10

This is an unbelievably intense movie and I imagine the most realistic
battle scenes ever captured on film.  Everyone should see it, not only
because it is a high quality story with high quality special effects but
also because it will definately cause an increased appreciation for the
sacrifices which our men in uniform went through to preserve our freedom.


******
2 February 2003
10

Although I did not witness, nor was I even alive during World War II, I-
as
an American- count this as pretty much the best movie I've ever seen.  I
look at it like this... if even one TENTH of the movie is accurate as to
what our soldiers endured, count me among those who are forever indebted.
I
cannot even pretend to know what they experienced and what they
undoubtedly
relive every day, but I am so thankful.  I am free to enjoy my life,
regardless of my religion, my race, or of my sex because of these heroes.
I
personally did nothing to earn this honor except to be born an American.
Saving Private Ryan reminds us of the sacrifice so many men and women have
made in so many wars and battles- we should each live our lives "well" and
be "good people" if for no other reason than to honor those who paved the
way that we may do just that without repercussions or fear.

******
31 December 2002
10

I saw this on the big screen on opening day. While the show before mine was
clearing out, I saw a guy I knew coming out, his face a mask of dried tears.
He's not the kind of guy who cries for anything, so I figured that I was in
for something I might not be able to handle. I went in and sat down,
shivering with anticipation. The movie starts with an old man in a military
cemetery breaking down at the sight of the hundreds of crosses marking the
graves of his fallen comrades. I was already near tears by this point. Then,
seemingly out of nowhere, the infamous twenty-five minutes of the Omaha
Beach landing hit me with the force of a speeding plane crash. To put it
mildly, I have seen enough violent movies in my time to say I've been pretty
much desensitized to violence, even though the occasional violent, gory
scene can still get me on occasion. While watching the beginning of this
film, I remember thinking at one point, 'This has to stop. Please God, make
it stop.'. The rest of the movie doesn't stray too far from the in-your-face
style of the first minutes and when all is said and done, you walk away
realizing that Spielberg, no matter what his detractors may say, is indeed a
genius. I consider this movie to be the reason I wanted to get back into
filmmaking after dropping out of film school. This movie makes its points
and makes you question the validity of the senseless slaughter of so many
innocent lives in the face of war, no matter what side of the fence you
speak of. I never gave the WW2 vets a second thought until I saw this movie.
Now I think of them and their hardships, especially around Memorial Day. The
cinematography here ranks among the best I have ever seen. John Williams
score is phenomenal and if you don't believe me, listen to the very last
piece of music played over the end credits. It is an incredible piece that
can only be described as beautifully patriotic. All of the performances in
this film were spot on, though it did jar me a little to see Ted Danson pop
up out of nowhere with a smoking machine gun in hand. I cannot recommend
this movie enough, though I'd suggest that anyone unnerved by extremely
realistic, and at times sadistic, violence should avoid this because it's
pretty upsetting. I can only say that like my friend, I walked out of the
theater a sobbing wreck. On my way out, I noticed that there were many vets
in the audience. Many of them were crying on the shoulders of their wives,
who were busy consoling them. Along with the film as a whole, it was a sight
I am sure I will never forget. Rating: ***** out of *****.     


******
22 December 2002
10

After I saw SCHINDLER'S LIST, I didn't think Stephen Speilberg could top
himself. This man is such an incredible director who has given us such
classics as RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND,
E.T. and now SAVING PRIVATE RYAN.I still can't understand how this film did not win Best Picture in 1999.
(SHAKESPEARE IN LOVE won) This movie is very violent, but it is violence
that is needed to tell the story and make the story realistic. From the
opening battle of Normandy, you feel like you are right there on the
beach
in the battle.The performances in this movie are outstanding. This is Tom Hanks in his
best role since FORREST GUMP as the leader of the platoon assigned to
find
Private Ryan. One of the performances that was underrated was that of
Jeremy
Davies who played Corporal Upham who makes a fatal mistake with a German
officer that comes back to haunt him. Edward Burns was teriffic as well
as
Private Reiben, who wonders out loud why risk the lives of several men to
save one. Tom Siezmore is equally as brilliant as Tom Hanks' #1 man. Even
Matt Damon, who I normally do not like, was outstanding.This is such a terrific film because the characters are developed so well
and you feel like you know them by the time the movie is over. The battle
scenes are outstanding as well. This is the best war movie I have ever
seen.I give SAVING PRIVATE RYAN four stars. (out of four)

******
7 December 2002
10

Tom hanks is a good actor,tom sizemore is also a good actor. Saving
private
ryan is the best war movie I have ever seen in my cool
life
this movie should have 14 oscars. Steven spilberg is a good
director

******
16 November 2002
10

I can't watch this movie without feeling traumatized. To think people had
to
make life and death decisions in similar circumstances is impossible to
imagine. If the one of the reasons for watching a movie is to glimpse
life
experiences unlike your own, this movie is in an elite group. Very few
(if
any) movies convey emotion and fear as does SPR.

******
11 November 2002
9

Since today is Veteran's Day I decided to review Saving Private
Ryan.Directed by Steven Spielberg this masterpiece War film contains perhaps the
most realistic battle scenes captured on film. You see anyone can do an
accurate war film but not many have the courage or patience to create an
accurate war scene battle. Now while most war films, especially WWII movies
tend to focus on the political side of the war this one focuses on the
people who fought the war. Which is why this movie is so great. Don't get me
wrong there's nothing wrong with doing a war movie centering on the
political side but when you focus on the people it gives the movie more of
an impact. Which is perhaps why Vietnam movies make some much have an impact
on the audience. My theory is that WWII was such an accomplishment to the
United States that Producers tend to focus on the political accomplishment.4(****)out of 4(****)starsHAPPY VETERANS DAY!!!! 

******
10 November 2002
10

The best film ever beacuse its so good story and its a kick from the
second
war, steven spielberg is the best director in the world, the film is so
real. Violent and cool, D-day is the best part, I loved that part. Go and
see saving private ryan

******
9 November 2002
10

I've seen this movie 4 times now and I still cry.
This movie really captures the horror of war.
The special effects are incredible.
If you can't see this in a good theater make sure you watch
it
the first time on DVD with a good sound system.

******
29 October 2002
10

This movie is not just about the war. It is more about the human values
and
how different people have different ways of valuing life. All this is set
at
the backdrop of the world war. Tom Hanks as the captain does not hesitate
to
kill enemy soldiers for his country. On the other hand, he leads his team
to
find one man because he believes that this job earns him the right to go
home. The war is shown exactly as it is in the battlefield. Some of the
scenes are gross but real. Tom Hanks and Matt Damon (as Ryan) deliver
extraordinary peformances. The sniper in the team who prays to God before
shooting his victim, the corporal who fires only one bullet in the whole
movie have their own ways of looking at the war and also on their
individual
roles in the war. Overall, the movie is excellent. The absolute reality
of
the war as shown in the movie makes us think if anything good really came
out of the whole war! 

******
17 October 2002
9

Spielberg?...I think this is really where spielberg's greatest passion
lies
This movie really does it right
this film really let's you know what it must have been like for these
soldiers
the movie has a good message
this film just grabs you and shocks you and teaches you
and makes you feel for the soldiers and think about war and it shows that
steven really is a great director/film makeri never knew steven could make something this good
steven spielberg has moved up in my top ten list!!!the effects are topnotch
the acting is superb
the visuals, the sound................pfff everything rulesi rate this with a 9 not a 10 because... it might be a master piece but
it's
not perfect you know!!!   very few films are !!!

******
30 September 2002
9

This movie is the best war movie I have seen. The filming in general was
great, the accuracy was, to me incredible. I've never been in a war and
this
looks like a very good representation of what it was like in World War 2.
From the choatic opening sequence of D-Day, to the final skirmish with the
German Soldiers have me hooked and interested in the horrors of war. I
liked
the whole movie but I have to comment again on the beginning and end war
sequences. (Not implying the movie in-between is bad at all, it never
bores
you and it's still good) The beginning sequence was a great performance of
acting of the main cast and a lot of extras, working all at the same time.
At the end, you got to follow individual soldiers on their fight with the
camera following them. The color tainting, and the authentic weaponry and
sound effects makes "Saving Private Ryan" the best war
movie.

******
23 September 2002
9

Steven Spielberg. That name should almost be sufficient. This film is a
masterpiece when it comes to showing the brutal sides and consequences of
war. How much should an individual pay for the freedom of his or her
country?   That is an essential question here. The film starts in the
present day and ends there as well. The majority of the action takes us back
to the days of WW2, where the mouth of a gun made most of the political
statements. If you're into war, it doesn't come much better. The casting is
excellent. The sound is very realistic and I recommend seing the movie in
THX or surround. The length of the movie helps to create the right
atmosphere. It doesn't stop, when you think you were just getting started.
You should experience this movie rather than listen to what I have to say
about it!   If you can take the heat of the shells and bullets falling all
around you...There is nothing like a movie, that dares to make a statement and puzzles
you with the consequences of it!

******
23 September 2002
9

My nr 2 warmovie after "Das Boot". Saving Private Ryan shows Tom Hanks at
his very best! The other actors also deliver performances at the highest
level. Typically Steven Spielberg gets the best out of the team and I
think
this is his best movie. As "Das Boot" "Saving Private Ryan" is an anti war
movie. The story is very good and well told. This is one of those films
that
is a "must". See and enjoy!


******
21 September 2002
9

** Spoiler country ahead **This film has proved to be one of the more devisive that Spielberg has made
and along with Schindler's List, it's certainly the most harrowing.  When I
first saw this in the cinema, 95% of the audience couldn't stand up as the
credits rolled.  The trauma induced watching the battle scenes seemed to
disconnect everyone's brain from their leg muscles.  If you ever want to
make anyone realise that war is not a good idea, make them watch
this.Many have said that this film doesn't have a plot.  Rubbish, the plot is
that 8 soldiers go off to rescue the last remaining brother of a family so
that some high ranking officer doesn't have tell his mother the worst
possible news without something positive to add at the end.  Sorry, bit of
cynicism there.  It don't care if the plot is true, made up, plausible or a
steaming pile of cow dung, it's still a plot.  To me the number of soldiers
who died in WWI to gain 100 yards of ground seems totally implausible - but
it happened.  In was lots of crazy things happen and sometimes the focus
needs to be on the detail rather than the big picture.I agree, the plot is something to hang this film on.  It's a bit flimsy but
it isn't why the film was made.  I think this film, like the gravestones in
Normandy, is a monument to the fallen.  It's an attempt to do an honest war
film.  No punch pulling.  No batteplans, just individual soldier's stories
in one huge story there players within.  To do that well you need a simple
story and that's what you've got.  Now the big controversial bit.  Patriotism.  Yes, it's an American film made
by Hollywood with American actors and money.  It's about Americans at war. 
Maybe everyone should treat it as such.  Das Boot is an excellent German war
film about Germans and the number of British war films made in the later
half of the 1940's about Brits does not need mentioning.But...The rest of world is starting to view America as a bit schizophrenic.  On
one hand very insular and not really wanting to interact with the world;
certainly wanting to be safe from the rest of the world's problems.  On the
other hand American culture, values, interpretations of history, art, music
are everywhere around the world.  Indeed most of the world are a little bit
American.  That's fine as far at is goes.  You don't like, you don't eat at
McDonald's.  However when a brilliantly artistic and truthful film that we all want to
share in fails to do this and goes all insular and US-patriotic on us, we
get a little bit disappointed.  Yes this film tells the truth, but it
doesn't tell the whole truth.  It's subtle, but it's rewriting history. 
That gets people's backs up and leads to tension and arguments.The association of the universal truths with the US flag and US soldiers
seems to be stealing something that we all own for an individual nation. 
War it a horrible thing, that men can commit the ultimate sacrafice for
another man, that fighting brutalises, that the freedom to make this film
was won on those beaches and fields; this film has a message for all of us,
not just the US.Films should have an affect on you, they should haunt your thoughts for days
afterwards.  Saving Private Ryan still haunts my thoughts over 3 years since
I saw it.  Please see it regardless of where you come from.

******
20 September 2002
8

It seems moviegoers either love or hate this film.  Most Brits look down
on
it for neglecting the Allies perspective.  Yes, it is a decidedly
American
film and why not?  Yanks coming ashore at Omaha were not hand in hand
with
Brits nor did they care.  They were with their buddies and they were
there
to stay alive and kill Germans...not just Nazis...Germans...the enemy.
The
five Sullivans were real and their tragic deaths ripped the heart out of
most normal Americans at the time, and to this day.  Americans would
never
again risk that heartache upon a single mother.  Perhaps this did not
occur
with any British family, making it difficult for the audience to relate
to
this premise of the film.Many say the first 25 minutes are excellent and then the film fades to
standard.  I believe the original hoopla is generated by the very real
special effects.  Few can deny that this film raised the bar for
moviegoer
battle sensation.  The scene in the village, at the end, where Hanks, et
al
are awaiting the Panzers and the rubble shakes beneath them still sends
chills up my spine.  Hollywood movie?  Sure! American as apple pie!  And
Hollywood will continue to make "Yank" films because...we will still find
those eight Yanks today that will risk their lives to save one.

******
17 September 2002
5

There is no aim in this plot. Why don't anyone mentions it? There is
completely no reason to use such a "who cares?" reason to base a whole plot
on it. Come on people, this is a war movie. People die in thousands, not
only sons of a mother, but mothers as well. Wars don't only happen to
distant places, they may happen next to your door.Thanks Spielberg for another stupid, completely out of interest
plot.On the contrary, the directing was fantastic. The imaging work on this movie
was also fantastic, maybe the best ever achieved on a war
movie.Tom Hanks is excellent, as always.I'd give it 10/10 if it was for another plot. For now, sorry, but 7/10 would
be enough.

******
11 September 2002
10

When we think Spielberg, we think Indiana Jones, ET, and Jaws.  We wouldn't
ever think War.  However, movie genius Spielberg pulls out all of the stops
in this epic war movie with none other than Hollywood great...Tom Hanks! 
And who'd have thunk it...Spielberg...working with Matt Damon?  There really
isn't a whole lot that one can say against this movie.  It's graphic and
touching all at the same time...while bringing the reality of WWII to life
like no one has ever done before!

******
28 August 2002
10

Steven Spielberg is a visionary, I knew that before I went in to see this
film at the cinema, however I was not prepared for the opening 20 minutes or
so. At the same time it brought the horrors of war and the wonder of film
making together at the same time. This is matched with an end battle
sequence again that gets the pulses racing and the emotions rising. People
have actually complained about the middle segment of the film, claiming it
to be clunky, boring and cliche but this is just the unwinding of the plot.
The scene where they storm the radar base and capture the German pow is one
of the most powerful in the film.
Hanks is as always superb but my personal favourite in the film is Tom
Sizemore who is the pick of an all round excellent supporting cast, big
mentions also to Jeremy Davies and Adam Goldberg who excelled in their
roles.


******
24 August 2002
10

This movie was one of the greatest war films ever made. Tom Hanks,Berry
Pepper,Edward BURNS, VIn Diesel,Giovani Rivichi, Tom Sizemore played
terrific roles. Besides all the action it had lot of History of World War
Two in it. This movie was very realistic and gory. I rate this film a 10!
Had some mistakes i spotted..... but overall it was a awsome
flick!

******
23 August 2002
9

What a movie.  Those who think of us as the "ugly Americans" can bash it all
they want, I don't care, I'm used to it.  All I know is this is a movie that
made me squirm, made me think, and made me love the men (from all the Allied
nations) even more who made this kind of sacrifice so that we can live with
the freedom we enjoy today.As Capt. Miller said to Private Ryan and to all of us... "Earn
it."

******
23 August 2002
10

What a movie,never before has a movie enthralled me as much as this
masterpiece of film making,from the horrific opening 25 minute sequence,to
the directors emphasis on the psychological effects that war has on such
young lives,to the most stunningly realised locations,you could actually be
forgiven for thinking you are watching a documentary on World War
2.
The performances are also breathtaking,from the criminally underrated
acting
skills of Giovanni Ribisi,to the first noteworthy appearance of Vin
Diesel,through to the Box Office heavyweight muscle of the the lead,Tom
Hanks,of whom we now take for a granted quality performances.
From the first minute,right through to its heart-wrenching,almost cruel
ending,this,to my mind is the greatest war film ever made,in fact,forget
that,it is quite simply one of the best movies ever made,and makes a
welcome
addition to any film fans collection.

******
13 August 2002
10

This is a brilliant film.  I have never seen a film that gives a better
sense of what it is like to actually be involved in combat, in all its
shocking and horrifying reality.  It also is rare that a World War II film
comes along that actually shows American soldiers as real people, who
sometimes do things they'd rather not talk about under the intense stress
of
combat.  Take, for example, the American soldiers who shoot the two
Germans
who are trying to surrender during the D-Day landing.  Or Corporal Upham,
who is too scared during the final battle to save one of his comrades from
being killed.  Scenes such as these help lend a humanity to the movie so
that, while still rooting for the main group of characters, you realize
that
sometime, during war, men act in a way that they never would during
peace.Now, as for the issue of the portrayal of the Germans during the movie,
first of all, I don't see how some people are complaining that they were
portrayed as "stupid".  I can't think of a single scene in which the
German
soldiers are shown to be acting stupidly.  Are they shown losing the
battle?
Yes, they are.  But guess what?  That's what actually happened!  News
flash:  The Germans lost the war!  A film that shows brave German soldiers
successfully stopping the Americans and British on the beaches and driving
them back into the sea would be nothing but a giant work of fiction,
because
it never happened.  And as for all out German "friends" complaining that
Germans are always portrayed as the bad guys and evil in World War II
films,
I have news for you: Germany was the bad guy.  Germany acted in as evil a
way as a country can act.  Germany tried to conquer an entire continent
because it felt it was it's destiny.  Germany mercilessly butchered
millions
of Jews and other "undesirables" because they weren't "pure".  If Germans
don't like being portrayed as evil during World War II, then maybe they
shouldn't have acted evil during World War II.

******
5 August 2002
10

By far the best war movie ever.By using hand held cameras Steven Spielberg
tries to capture the chaos of battle and in the process makes an
realistic,bloody,and powerful movie.The first 25 minutes in the movie are of the Americans landing on
D-Day.
This scene sets the tempo for the whole movie.Legs are blown off,a man is
blown in half and a man tries to push his guts back into his body as he
screams in pain.In its own way this scene deserves to be compared to the
Odessa steps in Battleship Potemkin, the final shoot-out in The
Wild
Bunch,or the shower scene in Psycho.This introduces us to the characters.Theirs Reiben the smartass New
Yorker,Wade's the medic whose mother is a doctor,Jackson is a devoutly
religious sniper who prays before he shoots,Mellish is a Jewish kid who
knows his enemy,Upham is the bookish rookie translator,Horvath the non-com
whos totally devoted to his captain,and Capt Miller...well nobody knows
his
story.The young squad of men are assigned to find and rescue Pvt. James Ryan
whose
3 brothers have been killed in combat and the generals dont want this to
turn into another Sullivan like tragedy.The men question the logic risking
the lives of 7 men to save 1.Through battle scenes in a destroyed village
and one in an open field.The squad is saved by a group of paratropers defending a bridge from the
enemy.It turns out that one of them just happenes to be Pvt
Ryan.
But he wont leave his comrades.So the squad stays and the Germans
attack.Men
are blown to bits,a head is blown off and the fighting gets up close and
personal.the Americans retreat and thats when reinforcements
come.This is the most realistic,bloody and best war movie ever.The hand held
cameras make the chaos of battle even more in your face,And the men are
acted out well,all except Miller(Tom Hanks)who acts out his character so
well that you get to understand him and the reasons why he does the things
he does.His queit character only wants to go home,and in the end thats
what
this whole movie is about, men who just want to go home.Overal:10/10
Sound:10/10
Special Effects:10/10
Realism:10/10
Acting:9/10
Story:7/10This is an excellent way to spend 2 hours and 50 minutes.It may be that
long
but it doesnt feel that long,cause its so good.Just watch it and judge for
yourself.  

******
24 July 2002
10

Best Movie ever! this movie start the WW2 wave. look at all the games that
have release because of this movie!
best in the film are the invasion of Normandie, it's not often a film
first
scene (forget the old man in the graveyard)are the best
one.
but that is not all.. see it if you haven't.. if u already seen it.. see
it
again.. and again..

******
21 July 2002
9

I have seen a lot of war films and I seriously doubt that any will ever show
combat better than this Speilberg offering. I dont subscribe to the view
that it ignores us brits, as clearly we were not involved in that area. The
aside about Montgomery is not particularly fair, even though I do not rate
him as a general, he was playing the part dictated by overall
strategy.
The first time I saw SPR I rather think I held my breath for the entire
landing sequence. Certainly, I remember heaving a huge sigh of relief when
it was over. If there is a more intense 20 odd minutes of film anywhere in
existence I have never seen it.
The film loses many points for some really stupid continuity errors but
makes it up hands down for the action sequences. The technique used to film
on the beach has had its critics in my circle of friends but I really do
think it lent great realism to the action.
Many parts of the film were a little twee, some tactics used considerably
less than competent. I have never been one to let such things stand in the
way of good entertainment.
Overall, SPR sits on my pedestal of 'best war film' on the basis of its
action sequences. Better war films are out there if you want a really good
story, historical representation or total accuracy. If you want to see what
it was like to be a soldier in WW2 when the lead flew, then see it on the
big screen and be prepared to duck.
What a shame that Steven Speilberg did not make 'Enemy at the
gates'.

******
19 July 2002
9

If you didn't watch the movie because you're afraid of watching horrifying
scenes, you could try to reconsider your position. All of the blood scenes
in this movie have poetry behind them, and they should be understood within
their inherent duality: External horror, yet warm at heart. The figure of
the mothers is referenced several times in the movie. I think this movie is
(at least partially) meant as a tribute to the mothers of the
soldiers.This is not a typical war movie. It's not Platoon either. It's very
different from what a war movies fan would expect. I guess many war movies
fans will dislike this one, while people who usually don't like war movies
will enjoy it.


******
28 June 2002
10

I would have to come up with new words to describe how i felt after
leaving
the theater of Saving Private Ryan.  You just felt like you were in the
war.
Tom Hanks leads the Movie as the Heroic Captian John Miller.  Very
emotional and moving movie.  Not just for out american causualities, but
the
story line in the Movie.  Especially the last 10min.  Truely Speilberg at
his greatest.  People should be required to watch this movie.  10/10.  I
dont give out many 10's.  Only to movies like this, titanic, shawshank
redemption, forrest gump, etc.
Dont watch it unless it comes back to theaters or if you have surround
sound.  It wont be the same.  

******
27 June 2002
10

I recently rented Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan on DVD and all I
can say about this movie that is one of the best movies ever made. The D -
Day scene makes you feel like you are on the beach, and the acting goes
above and beyond, I recommend this movie to everyone.

******
26 June 2002
10

I never knew. I knew that my grandfathers' generation did remarkable things
during the war, but I never knew. I knew that we fought a tough battle
during D-Day, but I never knew. I knew that people risked, and lost, their
lives to fight for our freedom, but I never knew.The reason why this movie is important, especially to my gen-x generation,
is that none of us really knew what others sacrificed for our
freedom.I walked out of this movie and saw an elder gentleman as I was walking out.
I thanked him. After viewing the movie, I went to my car and just rode
around for a while, collecting my thoughts. If this movie does not give you
a punch-in-the-gut feeling after walking out, then you have missed the
point. The point is plain and simple, ordinary people did extraordinary
things so that we have the right to be free. Some of my generation take
these rights for granted. I did. I no longer do.The rest of this, for the most part, goes into why I disagree with others
who did not like this movie. By doing this, I hope that I have also
explained why I DO like this movie. I have heard many of the complaints
about this movie. I disagree with just about every one of them. I add a
disclaimer about this at the end.I have heard that this movie is not "anti-war" enough, that "The Thin Red
Line" is a much better anti-war movie. This misses the point of the movie.
The movie is not essentially anti-war. It is about the sacrifices that
others made to give us our freedoms.I have heard that this movie is too gruesome. I can understand why people
say this. But, in order to portray truthfully, the bravery that others made
on our behalf, the movie needs to be gorry. I believe that this movie was
not so much written for the WWII generation, but for their children,
grandchildren, and on down the line. We NEED to understand what others have
done.Some have claimed that the movie, beyond the first 20 minutes, does not have
enough action. The movie is not an action epic, beyond the first twenty
minutes and is not meant to be. The movie is meant to display that these
people were ordinary. This is called character development. The characters
are not as developed as some would wish, but I believe Spielberg did this
with a purpose. The characters are developed to the point that we know that
they are ordinary. We are supposed to see that they are just like us (the
generations after WWII), yet they did extraordinary things.Some have claimed that the characters are too stereotypic. Well, we are a
stereotypic society. We have cultures from all over the world, and they all
fought in WWII. While many units may have been homogeneous, many were not.
There are no African-Americans in the story, and Spielberg did hold true to
the realism there as, sadly, African Americans were segregated from fighting
with white soldiers.Some have said that this another example of Americans being jingoistic.
Well, we did fight separately from other countries' units. Spielberg did not
say that other countries did not fight in the war, but this movie would have
been twenty hours long if we chronicled each countries' contributions.
Beside that, Spielberg is American, and made a film about the contributions
that Americans made. Why others feel that he should make a movie about each
countries' contributions is beyond me. If he does, that is his prerogative.
If a French director makes a movie about the French resistance, I say, "Good
job," not "What about America?"Finally, after fighting off attack after attack, I wish to say, that is
fine. That is your right, thanks to the bravery of others. I only wish to
say that I hope that those who dislike this movie are still able to see the
efforts that others made to give us this right.PS: Thank you Poppop!

******
26 June 2002
10
This film is hard to describe in words, much like Steven Spielberg's
Schindler's List. To date, it is the best war film that I have ever seen.
With a gutwrenching performance by Tom Hanks, the film is extremely well
acted. It is a shame that this film didn't win Best Picture over Shakespeare
in Love. Saving Private Ryan was superior compared to its competitors that
year. The opening action sequence, the invasion of Normandy, was so
bewildering, I really didn't know what to think. I was speechless,
especially at the end of the film. 
This film may make you cry, but it definitely will make you feel powerful
human emotion on many levels. Hats off to Mr. Spielberg, to making the best
war movie I have seen so far. Grade: A

******
25 June 2002
10

I watched the movie again and still felt the powerful feeling from
it.After watching the movie, bloody FPS PC games are really nothing, in fact I
have lost all the pleasant sensation of power from shooting, cause it's just
madness.The movie is so great not because of the American patriotism/pride shown in
it., but the message of "life" and greatest love; that is for one/ones to
die for the sake of others 

******
18 June 2002
10

Much has been said about the opening scenes of "Saving Private Ryan". Here's
all you need to know about it; at preview screenings of it, some veterans
who survived D-Day had flashbacks of their unimaginable experiences. Some
couldn't bring themselves to watch. That being said, anyone who wasn't there
on D-Day should see this film so they will have some small idea of what
those brave soldiers went through. After the opening scenes, we get to the plot of the movie, the search for a
young man whose brothers have all been killed in the war. A troop of
soldiers is sent to bring this young man home. On the way, they question the
validity of their mission; why risk a whole group of men to save one? It is
a question that has no easy answer, for the characters or the
audience.This is, in my opinion, the greatest movie about the Second World War ever
filmed. It was nominated for the Best Picture Oscar, but lost to
"Shakespeare in Love". Why the Academy snubbed "Saving Private Ryan" is a
mystery and, again in my opinion, the biggest mistake the Academy ever made.


******
18 June 2002
10

after seeing this flim,my perspective on what war is was changed forever.
instead of heroics, and valiant speeches, i saw madness, chaos, and death.
it showed how war can not only kill and man, but destory them mentally.
the
great sacrifice that was made by ww2 vetrans had finally become clear to
me.
instead of feeling like i could blow up anything like i do at the end of
most war films, i felt like i never want to go through the hell that those
brave men had to go through. god bless america 10/10stars

******
26 May 2002
10

It is a shame that some people trash movies just because they feel the need
to go against the norm and try to be so original.  This (and We Were
Soldiers) is the best war movie I have ever seen. RATING:
10/10

******
25 April 2002
7

I watched "Saving Private Ryan" the other for the third time hoping I could
find it better then I did the first two times. I got nothing. The only
things about this film that are worth mentioning are the battle scenes and
the acting. Everything else about the film is badly done, I didn't care
about any of the characters, I felt nothing when they died because I wasn't
able to get to know each character and understand their feeling of the war.
They (the soldiers) were just there and did nothing but talk and talk and
talk. The film is dull and badly written. An excellent war movie is one with
great acting, a great plot, great battle scenes, great direction, great
dialog, and likeable characters. This movie only has good acting (not
great), good direction (not great), and great battle scenes. It lacks
everything else needed to make it a great war movie. This war film is not
the best ever made, it doesn't even compare to better movies like The Thin
Red Line, Black Hawk Down, We Were Soldiers, Apocalypse Now, The Deer
Hunter, Platoon, and All Quiet On The Western Front. If you want to rent or
buy an excellent war film that won't bore you half to death then get any one
of those films that I just listed. With them you can't go wrong, with Saving
Private Ryan you go wrong.

******
15 April 2002
5
The American people think that SPR is an excellent film but the real
European who are more educated than you guys, are right in saying that this
`war film' is mediocre.The best war films are from renegade 'real artists',
Filmmakers(not like Spiel- who?) like  FF Coppola(Apocalypse Now) or Terence
Malick.
If you feel `superior' because you live in The United States  you should
see`We Were Soldiers' it portraits `how brave' the American soldiers were.I
bet you will cry!!!.
                  5/10


******
28 March 2002
10

This is the best war movie ever made. Totally realistic, graphic, great
acting ensemble, this is the movie that should of won Best Picture! To give
the Oscar to Shakespeare In Love was the biggest Oscar travesty, obviously
that film won it through their aggressive marketing only. I was never really
interested in World War II until I saw this movie, now I learn all I can
about it. This movie brilliantly portrayed every aspect of war, especially
the psychology. 

******
20 March 2002
10

Those who think war is wonderful or glamorous (ie John Wayne) need to just
watch the first 30 minutes of this mind-wrenching tragedy. If your mind is
still not decided than see the remaining 110 minutes and you should be well
on your way to accepting peace. Spielberg, after the box office failures of
1994-1996, and the critical failure of "Lost World" finally hits the big
time, THE TALENT IS BACK!
This movie is definitely only for adults. Kids under 19 I'd say would have
their minds warped too much.

******
13 March 2002
8

I saw this movie again last night as a dutch network premiere. I have to say
it strengthened my impression after my first viewing some years ago. As war
films get, it's one of the best, most realistic and exciting there are. And
yet, I don't really understand the big deal that people sometimes make of
war films. In my opinion, they shouldn't always by revered as "important"
films, or be taken with dead-seriousity. After all, no matter how realistic,
they are made for entertainment value and little more. This is a movie that
has terrific, bloody action, a realistic setting, superb cinematography and
production design, well-developed characters, and some emotional moments.
But people, is it really anything more than that? It is certainly not a
lesson in history. Did private Ryan or captain Miller ever really exist? No.
In Spielberg's SCHINDLER'S LIST, an obviously superior film, many of the
characters shown really did exist. But SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is really just a
work of fiction, crafted to manipulate and excite the viewer. I'm not saying
that there are major historical innacuracies in it, since I'm not a
historian, I'm just saying that it is in no way an extraordinary or
transcendental movie experience. It is also far from Spielberg's most
accomplished work. RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK, E.T., and JAWS are all clearly
on a much higher level, as they all transcend their genres and become
something truly extraordinary. PRIVATE RYAN may be a very good war film, but
lacks that extra bit of magic to make it truly extraordinary and a
masterpiece in ever regard. Like so many war film, it doesn't truly leave an
indelible impact on the viewer. And this is a member of the war film genre
in every bone of its body. It doesn't surpass films like PLATOON, FULL METAL
JACKET, APOCALYPSE NOW, as the Ultimate War Movie. If you want to see a true
masterpiece, a film that is truly unforgettable and extraordinary, don't
look for it among the war movies, trust me. See 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY. See
THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION. See RAIDERS OF THE LOST ARK. Those are genuinely
extraordinary pictures that transcend the limitations of their genres and
bury themselves into your subconscious, never leaving your memories. SAVING
PRIVATE RYAN, as well as every other war film ever made, can't possibly have
that resonance.  

******
13 March 2002
7

Saving Private Ryan is the moving epic of war seen through the eyes of the
war that should have ended all wars - WWII.  Saving Private Ryan itself
started a new genre for our decade; the 1990's - 2000 war film, of which
plenty try to follow but can't live up to it - The Thin Red Line, Hart's
War, etc.  The genre expands to other wars, such as The Revolutionary War
(The Patriot) and Vietnam (We Were Soldiers.)  Saving Private Ryan showed
how profitable war can be.

******
24 January 2002
8

To me, the greatest war movies of all time are those that address the
issues
of why war is fought to begin with, the psychology of the people who fight
it, and human nature in general.  Saving Private Ryan simply does not
address any of this.  Spielberg instead packages World War 2 into a neat
commercialized container for mass consumption.  The movie, although
perhaps
more realistic in it's depiction of the violence of war than previous
films,
has stereotypical and flat characters, little character development, too
many stupid one-liners and attempts at humor, and a cliched feel-good
ending.  'Saving Private Ryan' is maybe a decent drama, but in no way is
it
in the upper echelon of war films which ask and attempt to answer the real
questions of war.  If you want to see a good war movie which does address
the real philisophical issues of war and human nature, and doesn't have a
Hollywood-ized happy feel-good ending, go rent 'Platoon' or 'The Thin Red
Line'.

******
17 January 2002
10

One of the most heart stoping movies I have ever witnessed. A stunning and
emotional cinematic roller-coaster ride portraying the hideous reality of
the Second World War. I am a Brit but I also deeply appreciate the
American
contribution to this War and in particular the D-Day landings. Remember,
we
ALL made sacrifices at this time of history, Brits, French, Canadians,
Polish, Dutch, and of course the Jews. A Speilberg masterpiece which
deserves Five stars. 

******
15 January 2002
10

I love every minute that I spend watching this movie because it does an
excellent job at depicting the true horror of war and because the story is
very touching and compassionate.  This is one film that is very easily worth
the nearly three hours you spend watching it and it is my opinion that it
was by far the best movie of 1998 and one of the greatest films in all of
cinematic history.  I couldn't possibly recommend it more
strongly.

******
13 December 2001
6
To all of those who like to see a very well done war movie, realistic and
faithful to reality.
The Best: The performances, directing, the script and the realism of the
war
sequences might be for many hard, but... that's the way it
was!
The Worst: The movie was very long and it's one of those movies you only
have to see once, which isn't necessarily bad.During the hard World War II US soldiers risk their lives, beyond enemy
lines, to save private James Ryan, (brother of a bunch of killed brothers
on
action) that should be saved before his mother loses everyone she has in
the world.Once more, and not as a big surprise, Steven Spielberg directs this movie
majestically, I'm used to that, his muscle for tense and dramatic and
action
sequences was once more set in motion, wholeheartedly and greatly directing
a remarkable cast lead be Tom Hanks. If to you Tom Hanks seemed to you
exactly equal to himself again, that's because he is, but that's just me
because I believe that Tom Hanks is nowhere near that great actor that
everyone makes of him and that's not the only one. America seems to
`canonize' some Hollywood actors like Jim Carrey, Tom Hanks and Will Smith,
I like neither of them, specially Will Smith, who bugs me immensely, as of
Jim Carrey he doesn't bug me that much, what bugs me the most is that
Carrey
always makes roles of jerk or idiot.
Carry on Ryan, the cast his great once more, Matt Damon again proves to be
a
great actor again.After all this, Saving Private Ryan, is still a must see, wasn't it one of
the greatest movies ever made!My verdict 7 out of 10


******
28 October 2001
6

Saving Private Ryan, quite simply, is extremely overrated. Oh, the movie
isn't a total wash, in fact, about 1/2 is fantastic, but there's also 1/2
total crap. The battle scene that begins the film is fantanstic, especially
since it goes on and on for a full 20 minutes. Without a doubt the
highlight
of the movie. In addition, the men's journey to find private Ryan is
usually
quite engaging, and the performances, particularly those of Tom Hanks,
Giovanni Ribisi, and Tom Sizemore, are excellent. However, all that good
stuff is surrounded by weak sentiment and logic that rings completely
false.
For starters, the scenes of the old Ryan that bookend the film are
Spielberg
at his most cloying. There's nothing more annoying than a director pulling
every trick possible to get tears out of his audience. Besides that, the
film is extremely manipulative and is derailed by some ridiculous logic at
the end. Despite all this, Saving Private Ryan is still a sometimes
engaging
film, and is worth seeing. But #26 all time? Please! The Thin Red Line,
which was released with much less hype the same year is much better. In
fact, after you see this movie, track down the HBO film When Trumpets Fade,
an extremely underrated war film from the same time with much less phony
emotion. 

******
7 October 2001
7

  I'm not exactly sure why everyone went so bananas over this one. Yes its
good and fairly enjoyable,but it's certainly no Platoon. I found several
moments of this had long stretches that were rather dull whereas Platoon was
interesting from one end of the credits to the others. Perhaps it sparked
because there simply hasn't been many great war films for years now. I'm not
ripping the movie up,I simply don't think it deserves the legendary status
that's been assigned to it. Recommended,but with the reservation that if you
thought this was great,rent Platoon.

******
23 September 2001
6

Its my opinion that this movie suffers from a typical american disease,
the
over-praise for movies that glorify the u.s.of a.no doubt this was a very good movie that showcases spielberg's brilliant
technical mastery. but his story-telling is awfully amiss here. for the
average non-american this movie might seem rather ordinary.having said that this is by no means a solid output from steven spielberg.
as usual he brings out excellent performancs from everyone. manages a
tight
screenplay, a great score, brilliant effects. a quality film, that just
lacks in one aspect - for some reason, it comes across as being short on
the
emotional aspect. the movie fails to capture the horrors of war. for a
truly
brilliant anti-war movie watch terrence mallick's outstanding "the thin
red
line". sadly overlooked at the oscars.a high 7

******
7 September 2001
5

The first 20-30 mins of war are breath taking, one sits there in wonder as
to "could I have done this?", or "what the hell was it like to be there?",
which is where the film for me personally falls down later on, because no
matter how undeniably advantageous the presence of the US to allies during
the war was, they were'nt the only allies at Dunkirk!!
Now admittedly it could be deemed more offensive to have British, Canadian
troops etc as guest stars, or bit roles, but I think what nulls this
argument is the stars and stripes we are drowned in at the end of the
movie!! Now unfortunately comparisons will always be made to the thin red
line, if no other reason than because they were released in the same year.
There you have an engagement where Americans were the only allies
present!!,
yet this fact isn't driven down our throats by a flag pole!!
The other main gripe is the villian of the feature, the German soldier who
we see begging for his life, and who we are made to realise is a human
being
after all. Quite a moving piece of cinema, which later on is ruined by the
reappearance of the said German, all suited up and ready for killing the
main characters. "y'see they should've killed him after all" a phrase
undoubtedly uttered by many people watching, but don't those people hate
Germans any way?, wasn't it a bolder move to let us feel sorry for him and
leave it at that?
Overall an over-hyped film all explosions and fairy tale, from let's face
it
the most over-hyped director in the world. "I liked jaws
but....."

******
23 August 2001
8

I thought this was a fine and realistic war movie until
they found Private Ryan (Matt Damon) and when he was talking to Tom Hanks
his pearly white teeth were so white and perfect. Im sorry
BUT
there is no way people back then wouldve had white teeth like that. They
didnt have fluoride in their water yet and they wouldve hardly had time to
brush their teeth while they are fighting a war.  They wouldnt have teeth
brightening chewing gum either.  Okay so Matt Damon did a great job in the
role but that one thing pretty much ruined the credibility of the film for
me.  

******
18 August 2001
8

The story of the movie is really simple,it is about an expedition that are
looking for a guy in the middle of world war two.It is of course fiction
about this privat Ryan they are looking for,but the movie still captures a
lot of the second world war.
What makes the story so great is what the soldiers experience on their way
and that they have to stick together to survive.
All the actors does a great job playing their roles and especially Tom
Hanks,who I think never have played a bad role.The movie contains some strong scenes and some sad moments when young
soldiers lying around screaming and waiting to die.The movie is great told with very good camera work,but thats what you expect
from Steven Spielberg movie.Steven Spielberg has made another great movie that is worth
watching.I give it a 9 out of 10.

******
11 August 2001
5

i just saw this movie today and i am totally upset about the
beginning.
in the first ten minutes of Saving Private Ryan there is more blood,
violence,and gore of which are all terribly graphic. i am not against
violence in movies because i love films that are hailed as violent films
like A Clockwork Orange and Reservoir Dogs. but no one hailed Saving
Private
Ryan as a violent film its called a masterpiece. and i am bothered by this.
they showed more bloody/gory violence in it than i have ever seen before.
it
makes the most violent movies i've ever seen look like kid movies.don't get me wrong i thought that it was an o.k. movie but the plot was
stupid and only there so Spielberg could make a bunch of long, violent, and
dramatic WW2 battle scenes. Seriously, the US government would never risk a
bunch of lives so that a women could not have every one of her sons die.
it's just not likely.now i know that the movie was trying to be realistic but i think they went
to far. and the drops of blood on the screen itself is
disgusting.
Spielberg, as usual, messed up again. 

******
31 July 2001
6

While the first twenty minutes were a 10 on anyone's list, the remainder
of
the movie lacked true suspense, emotion and direction.  I failed to care
what happened to the remaining soldiers.  It was very anticlimactic.
Perhaps
Spielberg should have spent less time editing another movie and more time
developing "Ryan" for us.

******
16 July 2001
7

I am not going to write about historical innaccuracies - this is an American
film for Americans ( bit like Forrest Gump in that respect ). I thought the
first 30 minutes with the assault on the beach was great and very effective
- probably the best piece of action I've seen.
However the next piece of the film is very average and verges toward
sentimentality - if you want to see what this bit could have been like check
out "Cross of Iron"  - and it just seems to peter out toward the end. I
wasn't that bothered about what happened to any of them or whether they
saved Ryan or not.
I think it would have been better if "mom's apple pie" had been kept out of
the last half and it would have been a more honest film.

******
9 July 2001
10

this film has a very good story line wich is based on a true story. It is
about a captain that is put to the test and has to find a private by the
name of James Ryan. It has you clinging to your seats all the way through I
would recommend this film to any one that is not younger than 17 because of
the intense violence. But over all I would recommend if you have not seen
this film to go out and rent it. It is  touching film and will have you
crying your heart out at the end.

******
13 June 2001
9

this is a great movie a gave it a nine.
everything was right; sound, visuals, characters, story
etc.
but just one remark, HELLO AMERICA; although your part in ww2 was very big,
you were NOT alone, not even on dday. lot's of other countries (canada,
england, etc.) also fought hard to libarate europe and the rest of the
world!

******
6 May 2001
10

A masterpiece in every sense of the word. How they pulled it off is beyond
me. It didn't have any irritating cliches and was unbelievably realistic.
The camera work, the SFX (which *added* to the movie, rather than subtracted
like many modern day flicks do) and the sound was unbelievable. I was taken
back by the gore, but in the end that just made me think. The ending had me
in tears. I understand the fictional elements, but it made me think of what
the story meant and how many lives were needlessly lost in the war. An
awesome movie. Spielburg's best perhaps. 10/10.

******
12 April 2001
10

One example, that sometimes you can not watch the best movie of the year:
impressing, oppressing, merciless and still great!
Really great acting, directing and terrible good special effects,
which
do not hide any detail.

******
11 April 2001
10

I commend Steven Spielberg on this spectacular movie. Saving Private Ryan
is, or at least it should be, one of the best war films ever created. From
the beginning and until the end of the movie i hardly blinked (or even
breathed during some scenes).
One of the reasons which made me appreciate this film more is that i saw
it with my grandfather... who happens to be a veteran of WW2. Even though
he
wasn't at Omaha Beach, or even saw as much action as the men in the movie
did, i could tell how he felt by looking at how he watched the movie with
his eyes and how his posture was. This movie was also one of the only
movies
i have ever seen him not fall asleep during.
That is only one of the many good reasons why this film was enthralling.
The characters were also well picked despite the fact that alot of the
actors in this movie were actors that don't star in many films. Not only
that but Spielberg made these actors live as actual soldiers lived at that
time so that they would get the feel of how a soldier really felt. Tom
Hanks
was also phenomenal  for his part (as always)and each other actor acted so
well that you feel terrible when one of them gets killed or hurt because
you
like each one of these soldiers... err uhh actors i mean.
The cinematography was top notch and that goes for
costumes,sound,graphics,backgrounds,
and any other things that would make a movie worth seeing over and over
again.
Of course this film isn't for everyone... especially those of you who are
squeamish or sensitive and this probably isn't for children either. But for
those of you who are in the mood to see an amazing, well-done, action
packed, heart felt, movie then rent this one anytime. Oh yeah this is also
one of those movies that are alot greater on big-screen.. if you know what
i
mean. Enjoy every scene!!!

******
21 March 2001
5

This was an okay movie. It looked very good and the direction was well done,
but it just seemed a bit trite to really push it beyond the average.The story was pretty lame, and all through the movie you get beaten over the
head with morals and messages about how war is bad and peace is good. The
big battle scene in the beginning starts out well but by the end it becomes
a case of "yes, we all know war is bad. Could you get on with the movie
now?".The characters seem pretty false and boring. They have the usual hollywood
moments (when they want tension they make the characters yell a lot, when
they want a big cathardic climax they have string music and a short, "deep"
sentence) which make it seem less a serious work and more a money-making
device that uses "tricks of the trade" to make audiences think they are
watching a good movie.And all the jingoistic flag-waving was a bit monotonous ( i don't think
American filmmakers realise how scarily fanatical it makes Americans look).
And the total absence of any other allied country in the picture was
notable.It looks good but has no real depth or substance, and hence no real
credibility when it claims to be the greatest war movie of our
time.

******
19 March 2001
10

I don`t know if i can describe the feelings I had watching this
movie.
As an infantry veteran(cold war time)I could smell the rifle
fire,that
distinctive sound of the M-1 clip popping out of the rifle.For
this
picture not to get Oscar for best picture of the year,it just tells what
dopes the Academy voters!!I was still numb hours after I got
home.

******
16 March 2001
10

As you did with Schindler's List, you have shown us something that we can
not read in our history books, something we can not see on the evening news.
You have givin us something to love our country for. If people say that our
country is going to hell then they need to look back and see what we have
fought for and what we have tried to keep. Is this the best war movie ever
made, no, is it the best movie ever made, yes.

******
13 March 2001
10

The opening scene had my adrenaline pumping for days after and thanking
the
Lord that I have never had to fight in a real war.Well filmed, superb acting and direction, accurate with regards to history
and detail.  Tense and real!The best war movie ever!!Only cheesey part is the way the tank blows up at the end, just before it
drives over our hero, suppose Hollywood will always have its say, no
matter
how good the score, director etc.

******
7 March 2001
6

Saving private Ryan is not a great movie.  In my book, it's not even a good
film.  I watched the movie when it came out despite the hype that came with
it.  And I feel sorry about wasting valuable time of my life watching scenes
from a butcher shop - a clear intention to shock us - and b-class
drama.
It's not a waste.  It has some bigtime stars and even some good actors in it
- few of them perform extremely good too.  It is rich (and that shows) in
every aspect of the film, it is technically perfect, it is made from the
stuff "intellectual block-busters" are made of.
So, why did I hated it?  Because, there is something more in a good film
than all the above.  There is feeling, there is genius, there is passion,
there is more than kindergarten morals.
And none of them is present in "saving private Ryan".  You want to watch a
film about how horrible war is?  Watch "Jonny got his gun".  Watch "Full
Metal Jacket".  Watch "The Iron Cross".  Hey, you can even watch "Platoon"
or "The thin red line".  Not this movie.

******
11 February 2001
9

I don't know what the heck the folks at the Oscars were thinking.  I still
can't believe that Shakespeare in Love got Best Picture at the Oscars in
1998.  Shakespeare in Love is a good movie, but nowhere near as powerful
and
thought-provoking as Saving Private Ryan.  The fact that this movie didn't
win Best Picture is a crime.I have seen War Movies such as Platoon, Full Metal Jacket, and The Thin
Red
Line, and none of these movies reaches quite reaches the standard
established by Saving Private Ryan (though they are all excellent movies
in
their own right).  The acting, dialogue, and action is top notch.  Though
some of the movies do come close ,but Saving Private Ryan presents the
most
disturbing images I have ever seen in a movie of this genre.A friend of mine complains that Speilburg is too cheesy in how he show the
American Flag at the end of the movie.  There is nothing cheesy about that
at all.  The flag represents among other things, the people who fought and
died in all wars past and present.  I hardly call that cheese.  He also
claims that because it is more uplifting than Full Metal Jacket, that it
does not convey to full lengths the reality of war.  I agree that it is
more
uplifting than Full Metal Jacket (though war movies in general are
anything,
but uplifting), the setting and mood of the war reflect each individual
film.  Vietnam was the most unpopular war in American History.  It had
very
little support by the masses and the outcome was horrendous for America.
The fact that we lost the war at the cost of thousands of lives gave this
war a more naturalistic outlook than movies based upon World War 2.  In
that
the war the good guys won as America had a more moral cause to defeat the
Axis powers and free the imprisoned and avenge the victims of the Nazi's
genocidal regime.  This mostly explains why Saving Private Ryan was not as
naturalistic as movies that took place in Viet-Nam such as Full Metal
Jacket
and Platoon.If there was one movie I would ask anyone to see it would be this movie.
Saving Private Ryan fulfills masterfully the mood and tragedies of war,
and
the price of American sacrifice.  A masterpiece.

******
21 January 2001
7

It started well enough, with the protracted horrors of war on screen, there
to teach the audience the cost of war. And then Spielberg, as always, played
for sentiment and proceeded to created the best, least-challenging,
war-patriotism movie on record. It was well acted, made, and stunning to
behold. It just offers nothing new...and fails as a lesson about war.
Spielberg...sigh...I just can't get excited about the guy. I know what he's
going to do...The Starship Troopers comparison is good, the bugs = Nazis, but the troopers
were Nazis too. It isn't that private ryan were evil, but you can see the
way propaganda runs its course in media. I remember the audience cheering
for the sniper all the way. That doesn't sound like the horror of war stuck
with anyone. Patriotism is a good thing, but maturity as an audience
involves recognizing our flaws too.And thats why we have movies about Vietnam.

******
21 November 2000
10

Politics has come to be associated with dishonesty and greed but we should
never forget that the sacrifices depicted in this film were necessary
because Europe had been "de-politicized" by the Nazis.I shudder whenever I hear proposals to "de-politicize" elected positions
such as District Attorney, County Administrator, etc. or the creation of
special tax rate setting "committees".
We have vowed never to forget the human suffering of the concentration
camps
but we seem to have already forgotten the reason those beaches were
stormed.
The world did not yet know the truth of Nazi atrocities on D-day. Those
free
men who gave so much only knew that a de-politicized Europe had
de-humanized
its citizens.To avoid the same mistakes, we should make this film required viewing in
all
High School history courses--then give thanks to those Heroes who made
"politics" possible!

******
13 November 2000
10

"Staggering" is the only word to describe "Saving Private Ryan", watching
this film is a truly powerful experience, you will remember this movie long
after it is over. The battle scenes in this movie are unparalelled in
cinematic history, they show the true horrors of what soldiers in World War
2 went through. the performances are excellent, Tom Hanks gives his best
performance yet as Captain John H. Miller the leader of the platoon to find
Private James Ryan who gets to go home because his other brothers were
killed in combat. A truly unforgetable experience. Don't miss
it.

******
10 September 2000
8

This film has been mentioned as the greatest WWII film of all time.  It was
very good, but nowhere near that good.  It probably qualifies as the one of
best WWII films made after 1970.  There were dozens of great films with
better stories made in the 1940's, 1950's and 1960's when the war was still
fresh in everyone's minds.The story was about a rescue mission to find a paratrooper behind enemy
lines and bring him back alive, because all his brothers had been killed in
the war.  The platoon was commanded by Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) who
had to take his men through enemy controlled territory to rescue Private
Ryan (Matt Damon).  It is a combination character study and action film,
more about the platoon than about Private Ryan himself.  Other than Captain
Miller, there wasn't very much character development, but there was a good
deal of time devoted to the human dynamics within the platoon, which was
excellent. What really stands out about this film is the direction.  Steven Spielberg
has created probably the most gut wrenchingly realistic war movie ever made.
 The scenes on the beach at Normandy were terrifying.  This should be
required viewing for all politicians and generals before we commit men to
battle.  Spielberg's attention to detail and willingness to show the grisly
and horrifying results of men being thrown into a fusillade of projectiles
is unparalleled.  The entire ensemble cast did a terrific job.  Tom Hanks, as always, was
masterful as Captain Miller.  He struck just the right balance between the
sympathetic commander who understood what his men were going through, and
the hard-nosed military man who had to force them to do a job they didn't
want to do.I rated this film an 8/10.  It wasn't the greatest WWII story ever told, but
it may have been the greatest telling of such a story.  This film shows
explicit battle scenes that are brutally gory.  It is definitely not for the
squeamish.

******
7 September 2000
9

I'm not saying that Shakespeare in Love wasn't a good movie, just that epic
films such as Ryan are almost always due the Academy Award for Best
Picture.  The names Steven Speilberg and Tom Hanks already have the term
`Academy Award winner' in front of them, and when you get both of those big
names together, you get the best picture made in 1998.Tom Hanks plays Capt. John Miller, a high school English teacher sent off to
fight in the war.  The movie opens with a very dramatic 15 minute `massacre'
on the beach.  Miller, along with his company of troops, takes out a group
of German soldiers manning a huge gun spraying bullets on the rest of the
allies.  After the battle, Miller learns of his new orders of seeking out a soldier
by the name of Ryan.  It seems this Private James Francis Ryan is the last
of 4 sons sent to fight in the war.  The other 3 sons have been killed and
the U.S. Army deemed it necessary to extract the last of the Ryan brothers
before he is ultimately killed as well.  There is a very poignant scene
where Ryan's mother receives a message delivered by some Army diplomats
telling her that 3 of her sons have died.  This is a very well put together
story, all the way down to how difficult it would actually be to find a
paratrooper in WWII.Tom Sizemore (Sgt. Michael Horvath), Vin Diesel (Pvt. Adrian Caparzo),
Giovanni Ribisi (Medic Irwin Wade), and Matt Damon (Pvt. James Ryan) round
out this star-studded cast.  By far the best performance is by, of course,
Tom Hanks.  His ability to act in any surrounding; be it on top of the
Empire State Building (Sleepless in Seattle), in cyber-space (You've Got
Mail), or in a department store jumping on a large foot piano (Big) Tom
Hanks is definitely one of today's greatest actors. Saving Private Ryan takes us on a trip across the battlefields to find Pvt.
Ryan and get him home to the states.  The film has some very dramatic
sub-stories and a few slightly funny scenes.  Steven Spielberg very
carefully created a movie that will have you shocked from the seriousness of
the opening scene, to laughing at some of the lines, to crying from some of
the very sad moments of this film.The vivid cinematography by Janusz Kaminski made this epic film what it is. 
The camera angles used created the feeling of actually being there next to
Vin Diesel as he is taking out the enemy sniper.  Due to the heroics shown in the opening sequence, we develop a likening with
the main characters especially Capt. John Miller, and throughout the film,
we are told more and more about their backgrounds.  Another very cleaver
addition to this film if that the Captains men have this continuing bet
going about Capt. Millers personal background; and by the middle of the
movie we are told what it is he did before being sent to fight in this war. When the Academy Awards handed out the award for Best Director to Steven
Spielberg, I was happy, and just waiting for them to announce Ryan the Best
Picture also.  However, when they called out Shakespeare in Love as the Best
Picture winner, I was stunned!  To reiterate, I'm not saying that it's a bad
movie, just that if Spielberg was deemed the best director, how come his
film wasn't considered the best of the year?  It's no surprise that I'm not
a fan of giving the Best Director award, and Best Picture award to two
different pictures as they have done in many years including 27-28, '56,
'81, and most recently '89.  It just doesn't sound right to me. With all that said, there are a few mistakes in the film as every movie
does; however Saving Private Ryan is definitely one of the greatest epic
films joining the ranks of Braveheart, and Schindlers List.  This movie must
not be missed by anyone who calls themselves human.


******
3 August 2000
10

I absolutely love this movie.  It was so intense that I became emotionally
overwhelmed.  The camera work was superb and it was as close to being in
combat as you will ever get without being a soldier.  Too many war movies
try too hard to grind an axe;  we are the good guys, or war is bad, or war
is heroic, or something.  Saving Private Ryan allows us to see heroism
without making war an adventure, shows us about courage while showing
understanding of cowardice, and teaches us about the carnage of war without
detracting from the fact that sometimes it needs to be
fought.

******
16 May 2000
10

In the past few years we've had a slew of memorable WWII
movies.Don't forget them.Whatever your preference is, Ryan, Schindler, Thin Red Line or Life is
Beautiful, don't forget it.Don't forget the European battlefields:Saving Private Ryan was the best movie of the 90's.  Spielberg took no
prisoners in his ultra-accurate portrayal of the war.  See it (again,
hopefully).Don't forget the Pacific Theater:The Thin Red Line shows the barbarianism of both armies.  It shows what
happens when beauty and chaos collide.Don't forget the Holocaust:Schindler's List & Life Is Beautiful are unforgiving, and unspeakably
important movies.  Be sure to see them.Don't forget WWII.  Remember it through these movies, if there's no other
way.  If Ryan is at all representative of the war, I'm just glad to have it
to remember.

******
15 May 2000
10

This is my favorite movie of all time, and it is a great one.  Like all
great movies, it has unfortunately become prone to backlash and criticism.
I think that almost all of it is unfair; the movie is brilliant, and it is
not supposed to be a `typical' war film.  Instead of talking about the
film
itself, I actually feel compelled to defend this masterpiece.First of all, what people bash more than anything are its `bookends' in
the
military cemetery.  Every war movie has its own theme-`Full Metal Jacket'
was about men dehumanized into killers, `Gallipoli' was about soldiers as
individuals, and SPR is about the sacrifices that WWII veterans made that
we
no longer appreciate.  The `bookends' would not have worked in `The Thin
Red
Line,' or `Apocalypse Now,' but they are necessary here.  True, they are a
little overly sappy, and the Ryan family's girls are so attractive it is
distracting.  But one of the major points of this movie is that many of us
have forgotten what the veterans of this war did for us, and that we no
longer appreciate the sacrifices they made.  Far too often do younger
people
look at those from the war generation with indifference and disrespect.  I
am a WWII buff, and ever since I started reading about it in high school,
I
was always bothered by the fact that nobody seemed to care about it.  The
faded flags that open and close the movie are not symbols of
patriotism-they
are our fading appreciation for WWII veterans' sacrifices.  I am happy
that
SPR brought a renewed interest in this subject.SPR is about the American GI's experiences in WWII Europe, and Spielberg
is
not claiming with this film that people of other nations did not help or
die
fighting fascism with us.  The Second World War almost covered the entire
globe.  I would never complain about the lack of Americans in `Soldier of
Orange,' or `Hope and Glory,' two great films that are about the Dutch and
British experiences, respectively.SPR is not as black and white as many people claim it is.  The Germans are
not all `EVIL MONSTERS' in this movie; Isn't it Americans who sadistically
shoot Germans (actually Czechs) who are most obviously surrendering?  The
`Steamboat Willie' Character is just a soldier doing his job--he later
comes
back and shoots Americans, after Miller's squad released him (and NO, he
is
NOT the SS Trooper that stabs Mellish with a bayonet!)  Miller made the
mistake of letting `Steamboat Willie' go, because it seemed the `decent
thing to do.'  But was it?  A POW who is let go cannot be expected to
surrender--what do we expect him to do?  Tell his army upon meeting them
that he can no longer shoot at Americans?
According to the Video Hound book on war movies, the SS Trooper who
stabs Mellish tells him, in German, `Don't fight it.  Soon this will be
over.  You're going to a better place.'  He is mercifully killing his
enemy.
He also lets Col. Upham live, since Upham poses no threat to him.  This
soldier is a good soldier, unfortunately on the opposite side.  To many,
it
may seem like the Germans are depicted as monsters in this movie.  But we
must look deeper, and remember that men under fire don't really care what
nice guys their enemies are outside of war.  And comments like, `The
German
army were not Nazis.  They were just soldiers' are as much generalizations
as saying `all Germans were Nazis.'  There were plenty of Nazis in the
Wehrmacht.  As far as I know, SPR was well received in Germany.  Spielberg
was honored with an award there shortly afterward.This movie is anything but unrealistic.  I think I even saw a claim on the
IMDB that it was fake because `Soldiers would never storm Normandy without
air and artillery support.'  Guess what?  They did!  Normandy was an awful
mess!  Heavy cloud cover and fear of killing their own soldiers prevented
the US from defeating the defenses at Omaha, and lead to the
ultra-realistic
slaughter depicted in the first half-hour of the movie.Some have called the actions of the Germans in the final sequence
(one
of the greatest I have ever seen), `unrealistic,' and `unintelligent.'  At
this point in the war, the German army was in no position to carry out
proper by-the-book battle tactics.  They were under Hitler's stubborn
orders
to `hold at all costs' and were sent on many suicidal missions like this
one.  It was so bad that by the time of the Battle of the Bulge, Americans
were appalled at the way that German soldiers marched right up a road, in
broad daylight to the front.  Historian Steven Ambrose said that Americans
had no choice but to open fire on the columns, and mow them down "like a
scythe cutting wheat!" Besides, Generals, Captains, Lieutenants, and
Privates, etc. on both sides make horrible mistakes, and this war was no
exception.
As for the plot of this movie, one historian described it as `Very
possible, but not very probable.'  Take the case of Fritz Niland of the
501st PIR.  All three of his brothers were killed in combat, in different
divisions.  Luckily, high officials in the US army knew where he was, and
they had him sent home, immediately.I don't see how anyone could not be affected by the opening sequence on
Omaha Beach.  It is clearly amazing.  Actual veterans have offered their
medals and patches to Spielberg because of it.  The climactic battle
sequence is absolutely unforgettable.  I've seen it so many times, yet it
is
still difficult to watch.  It is incredibly suspenseful, frustrating,
explosive, horrifying, and shocking, yet it is all beautifully and
coherently filmed.  When Miller tells Ryan to `earn this,' he is also
speaking to us, to the generations born after WWII, who have to respect
what
the veterans have done.Most of us haven't `been there,' and we will never be able to say that we
know what combat is like.  But Spielberg has pleased veterans in creating
a
movie that depicts their experiences as well as a movie possibly can.  SPR
is a wonderful movie that will always be remembered, and that's worth more
than any Oscar award it could have received.

******
3 April 2000
10

I saw this movie the first day it was out.  I went in got myself a large
popcorn and when the movie started I could not eat or move for the first
half hour.  This movie was so powerful that it makes all other war movies
seem unrealistic.  It is hard to put into words the feelings I went through
while viewing this movie.  I will never look at older people the same way
after seeing this film.  What we owe them is everything we have.  Our lives,
our freedom, and our way of life.  I understand that this was an American
film and I only wish that they could have shown a little more of the
sacrifices our allies had to go through.  I can only say, in the movies
defense, that most of the younger English and other Europeans already
understand the hell their nations went through during WWII, where as this
was a learning experience for most Americans.  We tend to take our freedom
for granted, like it is a gift from God, but it is movies like this that
show us that our way of life is something that the generations before us had
to fight and die for.  

******
31 March 2000
9

Saving Private RyanDIRECTION 100%
If you can find a better dramatic war action film than this please give me a
ring. Flawless and impeccable with room to bring the viewer into the action
in the two major war scenes. The small incidents still manages to pull you
into the tension.  A well deserved oscar win in this category!ACTING 91%
Upham and Hanks leads the way in the emotional scenes, perhaps more could
have been expected from other characters.EDITING/PSPECIAL EFFECTS 98%
Supreme and impressive war scenes. The first 20mins are the most memorable
and exciting, the director manages to pull the WHOLE cinema into the movie
and won't let you lot go until everyone either dies or they just managed to
live.PLOT 72%
Not complex, but neither is it too simple as emotional scenes and characters
tell their own story on how they are reacting to the challenges of 'Saving
Private Ryan'. Not all war movies need to have detail plot-lines!STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC 94%
The action is stronger than the words, it may give you nightmares; but at
least you will know how it felt to be on the beach. Best seen and heard on
the BIG screen.MUSIC 76%
There for the quiet and victorious moments.SOUND 99%
With the surround sound effects hitting you with virtual bullets and
explosions will your senses survive in the cinema?HOOKABILITY 99%
As soon as you see the bodies drop you will be running for
cover!LASTABILITY 87%
You will want to see the ending if continuing the mission was worth the
trouble.OVERALL 90%
Just manages to get to this golden mark, only on virtue of it's technical
merits and placing the viewer on the screen for the first time in a cinema
setting;  instead of its oral drama on-screen, even though this was
exceptional in places, right Mr Upham!
Why this movie felt it needed to distort history by implying that America
saved the world from Hitler with non NATO style American flag waving will
put off the most sincere film goer.


******
13 March 2000
7

I feel compelled to finally say something about this film. I saw it in the
theaters when it first came out, and rented on video. I'll admit it was
good, but to call it the greatest war movie ever made is a major
overstatement. First of all, didn't anyone notice how badly Spielberg ripped off Kurosawa?
That alone I found rather disappointing. Second, the blatant and heavy handed symbolism. Come on, we just watched
people get blown to bits, do we really need to stare at an American flag? Is
the American public so dense they couldn't get it?Third, okay I realize Private Ryan was a *symbol*, but WWII was real. To say
that after filming some very intense, real images of war we need a symbol to
understand what all those millions of people died for? Was the military so
lax the day after D-Day that they could waste their time tracking down some
young kid to make mommy feel better? Why not ship the whole army back home
and forget about Europe?When you get right down to it, SPR is nothing more than a feel good
Disney-fied version of war. There are many of fine, outstanding films about
war, All Quiet on the Western Front, Platoon, The Thin Red Line, Escape from
Sobibor, Ran, Apocalypse Now. Heck, Apocalypse Now was full of symbolism,
but it didn't hide behind the pretense of realism. 

******
7 March 2000
6

The first minutes I just found incredible, never seen such intensity in a
war movie before. You can feel the horror and the fear of the man. 10
points
so far.But after that? The film follows the standard Hollywood war movie pattern:
American boys being heroes, some sentimentality, some victims, some blood,
some bad guys and so on.I expected more by Spielberg than making sure the movie goes well at the
box
office. A lost chance, could have been the ultimate war
movie.

******
2 February 2000
10

Saving Private Ryan is, without a doubt, the best war movie ever made and
one of the best movies of all time. I wasn't sure what I would think of this
movie before I saw it. I heard the gore and carnage was too much, and I
heard the story and action was great.When I finally did see it, I loved it. The gore wasn't as bad, in my
opinion, as everyone said it was. I thought the battles scenes were
fantastically done. They were entertaining to watch, but with a certain
sadness to it. I also think the moments of reflection among the soldiers was
very good too. You got to hear their thoughts about the enemy, the soldiers
and the war itself.The acting was great, especially by Tom Hanks. Tom Hanks certainly deserved
the Academy Award for best actor, even though he did not get it. Matt Damon
also did a great job as Private Ryan. Watch for a great cameo-like
performance by Ted Danson.The storyline was interesting. Most of all, it showed what the war was like
and how horrible it was. Some of the American soldiers were killed before
they even entered the battlefield, some before they could even fire back,
and some went down in a blaze of glory. Either way, you felt pity for the
Americans and hatred for the Nazis.The mission the soldiers were on was to find a single man, Private Ryan, and
bring him home, because all of his brothers were killed and he was the last
male survivor of the family. You, along with the soldiers in the movie, will
always be thinking about whether it is worth it to risk eight lives to save
one man. Many things happen through the film that will keep changing your
mind about it.If blood, guts and gore bothers you, you really should not watch Saving
Private Ryan. Otherwise, I recommend going out and buying it right away. You
will not be disappointed.

******
31 January 2000
4
Despite the brilliance of the war-scenes, and they are truly amazing,
this movie still has too many "Spielberg"- moments. For me, the film is
stylistically schizophrenic, he should have used the documentary-style
all the way through. Now he falls between two chairs, making the movie
feel disjointed and unbalanced. What irritates me is that he could and
should have been more consistent in tone, he of all directors certainly
could afford more experimentation. Now it has moments of genius, and
moments of cheesy standard Spielberg-sentimentality, and a paradoxical
pro-war message: war makes you grow as a person. Very good performances
(but a questionable Matt Damon) and striking photography and sound, but
unfortunately not as good as it should have been.

******
29 January 2000
10

Having put off seeing this film for months because people said it was
"graphic, violent, and bloody---I finally saw it yesterday!  I am extremely
grateful I did!  Yes, the landing at Omaha Beach on D-Day was realistic, to
say the least, but it showed what the men of WWII actually experienced
better than any book could possibly do.  Stephen Ambrose, the WWII historian
and consultant on the film, has given it the highest marks for realism.  If
anyone has any idea of what it means to be an American, of how invaluable
our freedom is, of the sacrifice that our forefathers made, let them watch
SPR and feel no doubt.  Undoubtedly the best picture of 1998!

******
14 January 2000
3

Why? It had such potential! It has some of the greatest battle scenes ever
filmed! But WHY did they have to include such a banal plot that manages to
send dual messages that contradict themselves in the worst way possible.
Sure, when speaking of the technical aspects of the film, it is in fact a
great achievment, and the acting is above average. But Spielberg packs into
so full of repulsive nationalism, especially during the later part of the
film, that when the final frame appeared I almost want to throw up in
disgust towards the overblown cliches that populate this film. And then we
have the thing that has always kept Spielberg off my list of outstanding
filmmakers, the film is so sentimental it almost caused me to start yelling
obscene words at the screen. Plus, the film is way too long, and VERY
predictable. But it is worth seeing for the great cinematography, acting,
editing and the battle sequences. Can you guess if I think this is one of
the best films about war ever made? Do I really think that about the film?
Hell no. It's a pretty good film, all in all, it's better than most films
Spielberg has made since "Raiders of the Lost Arc", not nearly as good as
"Schindler's List" though. If you compare it to the likes of "Missing in
Action" it looks great, but when it faces the likes of "Apocalypse Now",
"Full Metal Jacket", "Salvador" and "Bullet in the Head", it's
DOA.

******
13 January 2000
9

This film is excellent. Except for one respect. The toning in of the Stars
and Stripes at the beginning and the end. Unnecessary, egocentric and
downgrading. Most people who fought and died in WW2 were
Europeans...The thing that really made this film, is the opening sequence. The first
30
minutes are brilliant, horrifying and historical. Never, ever has war been
depicted in such a realistic manner. It's genuine and true - not John
Wayne
waltzing out from the landing craft with the bullets whipping past him and
his brave men. This is what it was like.Other than that, this film is not too original. Most of the Germans are
anonymous and disgusting, and even though the poor sod who gets to dig his
own grave turns out to be a real b****rd. And there is one part I REALLY
don't like: why on Earth does the guy they're looking for want to stay?
It's
irrational and unthinkable.But all in all - this is a great movie. Not all too believable - but
nonetheless, a realistic war movie. Just get rid of those flags, you
guys!

******
28 November 1999
10

  As the opening sequence begins, you cannot help but have a feeling of
dread as the date appears on the screen, "June 6, 1944"   The opening sequence has got to be one of the best put on film.  The
jarring camera movements, the bullets shooting through the water, the
absolute chaos of D-day is masterfully captured.  Some people called it
uselessly gory, comparing it to "Glory" with its battle scenes.  Glory was a
great movie, but comparing the Civil War to D-Day isn't the brightest thing
to do.  Once we realize the mission, we hear the men complaining, "Why is one life
worth risking eight of ours".  I wondered that as well, but you soon
understand that it isn't the point.   The backlash says that the characters are paper thin, and that the story is
s--t.  I disagree with both points.  All these characters have depth (with
the possible exception of Private Ryan).  The story, while I agree that the
screenplay is not oscar-worthy, is actually not told as a plot story, but as
a series of events that take place (D-day, the battle at the hill with the
machine gunners, the final battle).  The acting does range, and is not always great.  Hanks does give a good
performance, in a role that is not his type (aka. not Forrest Gump).  Edward
Burns does give a good performance, but the two best belong to Tom Sizemore
and Jeremy Davies.  Davies' meltdown sequence on the staircase left me
reeling.  I saw it in theatres over a year ago, and on video yesterday, and
was stunned about how much detail I remember.  In my opinion, this film is the best of the year (beating A Simple Plan
and Elizabeth).

******
12 November 1999
10

As few others have done before him, Steven Spielberg depicts war as the
true
nightmare that it is. No glamorization here; Sherman's phrase "war is
hell"
seems like a day at the beach compared to what we see in "Saving Private
Ryan." The only other film I can recall that delineates war to be as
horrific as it appears in "Ryan" is Kubrick's "Paths of Glory," albeit for
different reasonsThe cinematography, special effects, sets, and costumes all create a
mind-boggling sense of realism. The script is haunting. Phrases just
linger
in one's mind, such as Captain Miller's rueful observation that every  man
he kills takes him a little further away from home.Spielberg's direction is just that: direct. There is no dazzling  visual
trickery here, just naturalistic movie making at it's best.  When I left
the
theater, I felt grateful to the men who fought the fight of
WWII.


******
10 November 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan for me has to be the best war movie that has ever been
made.From the first minute of this film i was total hooked, i knew i was
watching a modern masterpiece which would be very hard to be beat. This film
is as moving as it is sickening. sickening in the respect of the horific
portrayal of the landings in France . How most of the soldiers never stood a
chance , dying a horrible death before they got of the
boats!
Tom Hanks is fantastic as usual . I promise you cant watch this film without
be deeply moved. Spielberg does it again! 
9 out of 10

******
8 November 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is the greatest movie I have ever seen.  Period.  Show
me another movie that starts off with the most intense thirty minutes ever
put on film.  Show me another movie that entertains me for another two hours
after that opening sequence.  If you show me that, I'll show you some
ocean-front property in Wisconsin.  I have seen this movie several times
now, and it never fails to move me.  The only thing I could possibly complain about is the sappy Grandpa frame
story.  It is completely unnecessary and contradicts the rest of the movie. 
But if that's all I've got to complain about, that's okay.Spielberg has made THE masterpiece.  But then again, every movie he makes
should be a masterpiece.  No one else has the funds or the creative freedom
that he does.  He should never, ever make a bad movie.  Give me $100 million
and free reign from the censors and I'll give you a watchable movie.  Give
it to Spielberg, and he'll give you Saving Private Ryan...or Hook (shudder).
 Let's hope the Hook days are behind us.

******
6 November 1999
8

Why is it, the people who made this movie decided it had to be the
'Anti-John Wayne film?' Hell I have a copy of Sands of Iwo Jima, seems to
be
pretty bloody close except that when, say, Richard Jaeckel or Forrest
Tucker
get shot, their guts aren't all over the place. But same thing. Sarge Rock
time in between some pretty gripping battle scenes. If you have scene
'Platoon' or 'Hamburger Hill', though, you Have seen it before, pretty
much.My problem with the Duke being singled out, is that EVERYONE made war films
like him-including AUDIE MURPHY, who was Only our highest decorated guy in
the War. Speilberg avoided fighting in Nam, and Hanks...he was popping zits
when the draft was done away with Jan. '73. And the rest of the cast-Ed
Burns, for example, are My age(33 or so-some younger...)who if they didn't
go free Kuwaiti oil for Exxon, aren't likely to be vets
either...I am glad they made this movie, sure-my Grandfather's generation that
fought
in the war deserve no less. But to go after John Wayne is idiotic.Why not go after, say, more Recent war films, that were bone-headed, flag
waving and utterly unrealistic? ,
I think, if you want to be
truly honest, targeting films that we all remember recently would be
better.But in all the publicity about this film, never Once did I hear 'Rambo'
mentioned. Why is that? Is it because, Stallone, Chuck Norris and Gene
Hackman are all Alive, and can Defend themselves
Take the Die Hard films, or...Steven's little 'Kill a Nazi for Indy'
series,
where offing a few dozen German Stormtroopers is as easy as playing
Pac-Man!
And fun, Too!Gimme a break. Who's being unrealistic and glorifying violence now? Die
Hard
II had so many bodies dropping, and so many cartoony violent scenes I half
expected to see Wile Coyote come flying outta the plane sometime in the
second reel....Fine. Crap on the memory of a star who was the USA's #1 box office guy all
time, like it or not, who is DEAD and cannot defend himself.Even though we all know virtually ALL of Hollywood made the same kinds of
films back then, even Jimmy Stewart, Lee Marvin, and Robert Mitchum, guys
who SERVED in the war and loved the Duke...Enough of my rambling. You like 'Private Ryan'?! Good! But is it a
Documentary?? NO!!! It is a MOVIE!  Enjoy it, but c'mon.That's it from here.

******
13 September 1999
8

When will Steven Spielberg learn to trust his own talent as a filmmaker? 
Why has he managed to ruin the endings of his two best films?  The "stones
on the grave" scene at the end of Schindler's List and the "Ryan as old man"
scene at the beginning AND end of Saving Private Ryan were gratuitous and
totally unecessary.  It's like he said, "OK.  I've made a three hour movie
showing in explicit detail how awful racial hatred and/or was is.  But, just
in case there's one idiot in that theatre that has missed the point, I'll
end it with a sappy ending to make sure everybody's crying."  This is the
Penny Marshall influence on Spielberg's directing.Without the unecessary scenes, Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan may
both have merited 10's in my book.   With the scenes, they are a 9 and an 8,
respectively.  Steven, bubby, just tell your story.  Leave the moralizing
and tear-jerking to lesser filmmakers.  Give the audience a little
credit.

******
11 September 1999
7

First of all, I consider this movie a very good war movie.But, after all, it IS a classic American war movie resembling other classic
war movies like Bridge On The River Kwai etc. What disturbed me, is the
general view of this movie being an Anti-War-movie. The origin of this
categorization is without a doubt the acceptance of Steven Spielberg as a
sophisticated director. If another director had created a movie with such
realistic scenes as featured in SPR, the movie would probably be seen as
violent and war-glorifying. Spielberg does SPR and it is automatically an
Anti-War-movie, that `realistically displays the cruelty of war, showing us
what never may happen again'. How can it be otherwise? It is a Spielberg
movie. In my eyes ridiculous and unfair to the directors who are not as
established as Spielberg.In a movie against war the first thing that should be dropped is Patriotism
in order to reflect on war objectively. SPR starts with an American flag
waving in the wind. There is hardly more Patriotism possible. An objective
movie does not require clichees like the evil Nazi soldier who
cold-heartedly shoots American soldiers even after they spared his life.
Despite of the indubitable fact that the Nazi regime was one of the most
gruesome periods in world history, we also have make the assumption, that
in
battle all soldiers are the same: Humans fighting for a country.By the way, the only movie I have seen that definitely could tell a war
story without sticking to just one side was The Thin Red Line. The problem
was that Terrence Malick is not Steven Spielberg.So, again, in my eyes a really great movie. But let us see things as they
are: Just because Spielberg made it doesn´t make it a sophisticated
Anti-War-movie.


******
4 September 1999
5

This represents a great lull in Steven Spielberg's illustrious career. A
collossol disapointment in almost ever aspect. The biggest problem though
is
the casting of recognisable faces such as Tom Hanks and Matt Damon. If
Spielberg had chosen unknown actors he would have been able to reach
emotional chords with the audience that wasn't achieved.  Tom Hanks
reaches
emotional depth by squinting, Matt Damon by whining. The film's opening
blood bath on the beach is a powerful image reinforced by many of the key
scenes. But the film becomes bogged down in it's middle with prolonged
memoirs and later in a lack lustre climatic battle.After this film I was left trying to like it but in the end gave up. I
believe Spielbergs directions of the battle scenes were oscar worthy but
as
for the rest it wasn't. A great disappointment from a first rate
director.

******
2 September 1999
5

Yes, the first half hour is great maybe even brillian...nah. Great. I even
have problems with the opening stormin' beach scene but anyways...Before
the
film started on opening day(I add this to let you know I'm a Fan of Mr S.)
one of my friends beside me said, "if this opens or closes with some hokey
memorial thing I'm outta here!" Well, we didn't leave but we got it in
BOTH
the beg AND end. Geesh. and I don't buy that Ryan's an everyman crap. It's
not like they're supposed to be meeting Brando in "Apocalypse Now" Hey, he
doesn't have to be crazy-like Brando just oh, I don't know, interesting.Mr. S has shown with his last three dramatic works that he does DEAD or
rather the act of killing better than anyone. Great. Shocking and all that
other stuff but how about ya know, the living? I don't consider myself a
"girly-man" but Hell Yeah, Shakespeare in Love was better than Ryan. And
another thing, that opener has flaws too, like the center shots of the men
with their "look at me, I've got my guts spillin'" oooooh. indeed.


******
25 August 1999
10

I give very few perfect 10s.  This is a must see for everyone.  While it
is
too real at times, it shows how horrible war can be. When I left the movie
house, no one said a word all the way to the parking lot.  It gave me
chills. I can't believe that it didn't win best picture.

******
22 August 1999
9

Although it has a fairly simplistic plot, this film manages to do what only
one other war film I have ever seen has done: it has recreated the
battlefield so that the viewer is not witnessing it, but is a part of it. 
This movie features well drawn-out characters trapped in an incredibly
brutal and all-too-real situation: they must survive the greatest hell ever
to exist on Earth.Their mission is to rescue one man, who is the last of his line.  Private
Ryan's brothers have all died in combat, and he now has a free ticket home. 
However, he has to be found first, and a team of soldiers led by Captain
Miller (Tom Hanks)travels around the lines of the D-Day invasion looking for
him.But the real reason for seeing this has nothing to do with the plot.  As far
as plots go, it is a fairly simplistic one, despite the fact that these
basic events really did happen.  The film suffers slightly as the ancient
morality of "the other guys are the bad guys" sets in, making it slightly
less horrifying than it could have been.  However, the real reason for
seeing this is the experience.  The viewer is AT D-Day and the following
chaos, watching as soldiers get their brains blown out before they even have
a chance to get out of the landing craft.  Watching this film is an
experience of walking through hell, and no viewer can come out of it without
being changed.This is a film everybody should see at least once. 4.5/5.

******
20 August 1999
5

Typical modern-day-movie predictability and over-dramatization.  I'm the
kind of person that approaches movies with an open mind, however, certain
things may become apparent in these movies which quickly bias my opinion
and
ruin the movie for me.  I can't help it, its how my mind works.  As soon
as
I see something that makes me cynical, I start picking the movie apart.
This movie had that effect on me.  Realize I'm 29 and have no combat
experience.In the opening battle, I wondered why they would attack a fortified
position
without any "softening up" of said position by either ship-to-shore
artillery or at least hand-held heavy weapons.  I assumed this was a
realistic representation of what really happened (everyone said it was so
realistic).  For whatever reason they didn't have the necessary firepower.
So be it.  But then I see, after they've already nearly secured the
position
(with heavy losses) there is a guy with a rocket-launcher-type weapon.
Where the hell was he earlier when the bunker was mowing down
everyone?There were numerous other things that put me into cynic-mode:1.) the guy that gets hit in the helmet then just stands there and (very
predictably) gets shot in the head.  Isnt it a natural reaction to DUCK
when
you get hit in the head???
2.) solders shoot surrendering enemies......with friendly troops walking
just beyond these enemies.  You tell me--at close range, wouldn't one of
these rifle bullets go right thru a person and potentially wound another
in
the line of fire???  Okay maybe these people were just stupid and lucky
they
didn't injure any friendly troops.
3.) this movie was supposed to be sooooo in-your-face realistic.  Did
anyone
else notice how clean and bleached WHITE Pvt. Ryans teeth were?  Oh thats
realistic yeah.I could go on.  Don't get me wrong there were things I liked.  Like the
translator that finally hardened to the point where he killed.  But
overall
I couldnt take the movie seriously.And Tom Hanks.  He was a pretty poor choice for the role.  However, this
may
have been Spielburg's intention.  More realistic maybe?I just watched this movie and Thin Red Line for the first time today (on
Direct TV)  I'm probably the only one here that liked TRL better (though
admittedly that had its flaws too (can you say, under-powered
grenades))Oh and for people wondering about the battle scenes.  They were shot with
hand-held, fast-shutter speed cameras, but the actual speed of the footage
was not increased.  It was a good effect, but overused.


******
16 August 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is great - definitely a 10 - but Platoon is the better
war movie. It has a richer, better developed story, and features better
performances top-to-bottom.The first 15 minutes of Private Ryan are as good as any ever filmed, but
the
movie soon morphs into typical Hollywood fare, cut from time to time with
gripping, well-crafted scenes.See Platoon First, and maybe Full Metal Jacket, then Private Ryan.


******
15 August 1999
10

When I first saw this film a year ago, I was completely blown away.  I knew
people who had seen it said the battle scenes were pretty intense,  but it
was nothing like I expected.  I was in a state of shock as was everyone else
at the screening I attended.  The two extended battle scenes that open and
close the film are, simply, the greatest battle scenes ever recorded on
celluloid.  The primary reason is because they show absolutely everything. 
Blood, body parts, gore, you name it.  This is easily the most violent film
I've ever seen.  Can you imagine what the reaction would've been like if
this movie came out at the same time "The Wild Bunch" did?  I was somewhat
surprised that this film sailed through with an "R" rating.  The film tells
a fairly straightforward story of a platoon of soldiers led by Tom Hanks who
are assigned to find and bring back a young soldier whose three brothers
have been killed in action.  The characters are sharply and simply drawn,
the editing is phenomenal, the cinematography is excellent, and the score is
appropriate.  This is Spielberg's fourth WWII movie, and arguably his best
film ever.  The only complaint I have about this film is its continued
absence on DVD.  Please, please, Mr. Spielberg, get this masterpiece out on
DVD real soon.  

******
10 August 1999
10

This movie is an instant classic. I loved it, it shows WWII in a very real
way. It doesn't mention the atrocities of Hitler because they are already
showed in so many movies, instead it show the atrocities of war. The first
minutes of the movie are the most stunning that I've ever seen specially
because its based on real events. This movie show the soldiers of both bands ( allies and germans ) as human
beings , this is refreshing because most war movies pictures one side as
pure evil. and the other side as the good guys, Specially WWII movies but
this movie shows that not all german soldiers were jew-hating Hitler-loving
killing machines with no soul.  I liked Shakespeare in Love but I think this movie should've won the
oscar. It has everything you want in a movie, good acting, good story and
good special effects. The main characters are well-developed and you feel
you know them. If you ever cry at movies you will cry.I would recommend it to anyone except children

******
25 July 1999
7

I must admit I watched this with apprehension, as I firmly believe that Tom
Hanks should stick to doing comedy (The Burbs, Dragnet) and Spielberg hasn't
made film better than Jaws in his whole career.  Anyway, this film is
over-rated.  Sure the opening scenes are shocking and brutal.  This is to
show what war was really like, apparently.  We all know what war was really
like, so who cares?Spielberg cannot decide whether to make a totally serious war film or a
sentimental heart tugging Oscar winner.  So he tries both.  The comedy of
the bumbling interpreter is out of place, and the sniper's amazing shot
through the sight of another sniper's gun is plain ridiculous.  Even more
so, the feelgood ending made me want to vomit.Bizarrely, Saving Private Ryan seems to be a shameless rip off of the
Eastwood/Sutherland/ Savalas classic Kelly's Heroes.  The end scenario is
too similar to be coincidence, with the tank ambush, the radio music and the
sniper in the bell tower.  I spent the whole 2 and whatever hours thinking
'its Kelly's Heroes, but without the humour or the superb
acting!'While Saving Private Ryan is highly watchable, it is by no means a
classic.Watch Kelly's Heroes instead.

******
10 July 1999
5

Although I really liked this movie, I don't think it captured the true
horrors of war like Oliver Stone's Platoon.  The first D-Day scene was
great, but to me, the movie kinda died off after that.  There may not have
been as much blood and guts in Platoon as in Saving Private Ryan, but I
think Platoon was a stronger war movie.

******
3 July 1999
6

Every possible thing has been said about this film, but lets accumulate the
dissent some more.  No doubt the first bit is pretty realistic and moving
and deserves acclaim, but after that the plot gets lame and the acting even
worse.  And what's this nonsense with the American flag?  Oh well, if they
want horror, cruelty, and moral vacuum symbolised by the Stars and Stripes
that's fine by me.  But it turned what was potentially a worthwhile film
into a bit of a farce, although empty headed middle America will appreciate
it.  I was never sure about Tom Hanks but now its clear that he's only good
at sitting round with his head in a spin.   Save the first half hour for
excellent "documentry" footage to teach the ones in power about the cruel
nature of war.  Save the rest of it for serialisation on daytime
TV.

******
27 June 1999
5

Riveting initial 30 minutes followed by some extremely poor acting;
most notably on the part of young Mr Damon - predictable plot manoeuvres,
all ridiculously
book-ended by Spielberg sentimentality.The scene that affected me for some days however, involved the Youth
Hitler
knife.  The intimacy of that death; still frightens me.  Yes, I was
moved, but another scene to be endured, nonetheless.


******
22 June 1999
6

People--characters included--cannot remember things that they themselves
didn't actually witness or experience.  As a flashback by Ed Burns's
character, this screenplay would fine (except for the dillydallying that
occurs immediately after the D-Day sequence, and the moral mushiness of
helping your fellow man out of a living hell only to earn a ticket home),
but as a flashback by Private Ryan, as clearly intended by the
melodramatic
modern-day frame, this screenplay would no doubt get roundly criticized by
any introductory-level university screenwriting or creative writing
workshop.  This was definitely NOT the heir to SCHINDLER'S
LIST.

******
11 June 1999
10

The only film I could, in honesty, give a 10 to so far!
At the end, the silence lasted and lasted and lasted.....
I am not sure I could stand watching it again...maybe in a year or
so...

******
2 June 1999
10

I'll keep this simple--"Saving Private Ryan" is the REAL Best Picture of
1998.I admit this--I loved "Shakespeare in Love."  But as I was walking out of
the theater after seeing it, I thought it was the second-best movie I had
seen in '98."Shakespeare" didn't deserve Best Picture.  Why?  Because the film did
nothing that couldn't be done in a Play.  Everything that happened in that
film could have been reproduced on a stage.  And this may be considered a
personal bias, but a film that could honestly be a stage production should
not be remotely competitive for film awards when it's up against the likes
of the shocking and fantastic FILM work of "Ryan."Additionally, I have another personal bias.  I believe a Best Picture
should
transcend the material seen on screen.  It should have an emotional
impact--it should touch the viewer in a way where it becomes much more
than
a movie for the viewer.  And let's face it; "Shakespeare" was well-done,
but
it's only a well-done story that doesn't have much to say beyond the
screen.
However, I think we all know how much impact "Ryan" had beyond the actual
film itself.The academy got it wrong.  Period.

******
3 May 1999
10

Just last summer I became a proud member of the United States Army.  As
the
son of a retired Army officer and the grandson of a World War II veteran,
this movie hit somewhat close to home.    Never before have I seen such a
realistic portrayal of battle.  Anyone who sees this movie should keep in
mind the sacrifice men and women have made for them and be reminded not to
take simple everyday freedoms for granted.  When CPT Miller says to PVT
Ryan
"Earn this," he is speaking to us all.  We must never forget the cost at
which our freedom was gained, and never disgrace ourselves and our
country.

******
30 April 1999
8

Although the horrifying opening sequence to "Saving Private Ryan" is
probably the best thing Steven Spielberg has ever committed to celluloid,
the rest of the movie is highly watchable and entertaining. It is pure
Hollywood manipulation, but it is well done.What is worrying is Spielberg's rather distasteful flag waving, which was as
depressing as it was distressing. Spielberg is re-writing history, and
people are buying it. It is tarnishing the memories of the millions of
English, Canadian and French who died during World War II. Spielberg wants
us to believe that World War II was the USA against the world, heroes
all.
What is admirable though, is that Spielberg is getting a horrific depiction
of war over to a mainstream audience. He is educating young people about the
futility and the anguish of war. This is commendable.Oh, and for all the amazing war footage, I haven't seen anything worse in
contemporary cinema than the modern day sequences that bookend the film.
This was pure cinematic masturbation. How much more powerful would the
ending have been if the elderly Private Ryan just got up, and walked away
into the distance with his family? Exactly. What do we get? A truly
revolting snatch of sentimental dialogue ("Tell me I've led a good life":
Eurghh!!) and a salute to the grave of his Captain. Then a near five minute
shot of the American flag.Steven Spielberg, I ask you. First you want to kiss him, then you want to
kick him. 

******
22 March 1999
7

When I go to the movies, I expect to be transported.  When I watch Saving
Private Ryan or any other Spielberg movie, such as Schindler's List, I
feel
strangely detached from everything.  Oft-times, his movies have that epic
feel, but they don't seem to have captured Spielberg's passion, do they?
While I was watching the famed "first 20 minutes," all I could do was look
on at the screen, almost indifferent to the violence.  Maybe it's because
I'm growing up in a society obsessed with violence and bloodshed, but I
didn't feel like I was there.  I felt like I was watching it 50 years
after
the fact and it was just very ineffectual to me.  The other WWII movie,
"Life is Beautiful," however, was created as a much more intimate film
with
less violence and affected me much more than "Saving Private Ryan" and
"Schindler's List" did.  I hope in Spielberg's next film, he puts the
story
and the characters ahead of the spectacle of it all.

******
22 March 1999
10

WOW! That's all I could say as I left the theater after seeing Saving
Private Ryan, this movie is what film making is all about. As I walked out
of the dark theater with my grandfather, who experienced the horror of
Omaha
Beach first hand over 50 years ago, I turned to him and said, "Was it
really
like that?" What he told me was just about the best way to describe this
movie you can get, he said "Mathew, that movie was just about as close to
war as you can get without the fear of taking a bullet."
I must say that Stephen Speilberg has outdone himself once again, not only
was Saving Private Ryan the best war film ever made, I'm trying to decide
if
I think it's the best movie ever made. Of course the movie's highest
points
are the brilliantly realistic war scenes, especially the Omaha Beach scene
but the visuals aren't it's only good parts. The story is quite well
thought
out and the reactions from the charecters are very realistic, ie. The
soldiers aren't too happy about having to risk their lives for one private
who no one has even heard of. The charecters are very well developed and
you
really get to know and love (or hate) each and every one of their
personalities individually. Speilberg got his point across so well that by
the end you're screaming "KILL SOME NAZIS, THEN KILL MORE NAZIS, THEN
AFTER
THAT KILL EVEN MORE NAZIS." Believable story, amazing visuals, top notch
acting, superb directing, touching dialog. All in all a true masterpiece,
see this film at all costs I recommend it to everyone.


******
18 March 1999
10

Saving Private Ryan is a film containing ironic humor. This is a unique
perspective on war and although it emulates "The Longest Day;" it is
completely original in the level of realism. I give the movie five stars; it
is a timeless historical film that should never be forgotten. If you haven't
seen this in the theater yet, find out where it's playing and see it! Don't
just wait for the video cassette release.Ever onward! 

******
15 February 1999
6

The film means well, and for the first half hour is indeed riveting, but is
done in due to Spielberg's clumsiness. In time, the battle scenes begin to
simply play out like a video game. And why the triumphant music when Jeremy
Davies kills the German soldier? Is Spielberg trying to declare all Germans
to be pond scum and deserving of death? Probably not, but it's poorly
directed and ambiguous. And regardless of the absurdly jingoistic sentiments
of some of my fellow countrymen here (which are not worth responding to),
the US flag at the end was tacky and implied American superiority. Even my
great-uncle, a proud WWII veteran, agreed that this was unnecessary.
Spielberg may have meant to shown the true hell that war is, but he has
inadvertently made a pro-war film. American entry in WWII was inevitable and
necessary, but it's nothing to celebrate. 

******
12 February 1999
5

In lots of movies and documentaries war is being depicted as something
glorious, as a time and a place where (mostly good-looking) young men can
prove how brave they are.
SPR would be different, so I expected. In this movie Spielberg really would
show his audience that war is horrific, not heroic.The first half hour of the movie really was shattering. People who still
believe war is an exciting event for young would-be heroes (think: Tom Cruise
in Top Gun) should be obligated to watch the Omaha Beach landing-scenes.
Because it really makes you experience that war is hell, a sickening,
horrible hell.Of course you can't fill a three hour movie solely with scenes like that of
the Omaha Beach landing. To make a good movie, you need more, like good
actors, a capable crew, convincing special effects and, the most important,
an interesting story.
Well, no one will dispute the fact that SPR technically is a masterpiece.
The camerawork, the special effects, the sound, they are all overwhelmingly
good.In spite of all these plusses, I really was disappointed by at least two
hours of SPR. Because it missed the most important thing a movie needs: an
interesting story!
The characters weren't convincing. I don't blame the actors for that, they
all did a good job. It was the script that I blame, I never forgot I was
watching a movie with made-up characters. When a movie is really good, I
tend to get so absorbed by the characters that they become real to me, that
I start to symphatize deeply with them.
This never happened while I was watching SPR. I never felt anything more for
Captain Miller and his men then I felt for all the other, anonymous soldiers
you see in this movie. And the story, the search for Private Ryan, even
bored me sometimes. There were just a few scenes, like the one in which the
men were reading the name-tags of the fallen soldiers, that were really
compelling.Three things about SPR I really disliked. First there is the way the German
soldier known as "Steamboat Willie" was portrayed. Why is the only German we
got to know a little bit such an awkward, silly guy? I'm pretty sure lots of
German soldiers were ordinary men who didn't want this war any more then
anyone else did. They must have been just as afraid as the American
soldiers, they must have felt the same pain and horror. But that's not the
way it feels like in SPR. The overall feeling you get is "Americans are
good" and "Germans are bad".
Second, there is the fight for the bridge. This kind of stuff, the brave
heroes who, against all odds, succeed in defeating the enemy, well, this has
been done so many times before. This kind of cliché was exactly what I
expected SPR to avoid.
Third, there is the 'point of view'. You are made to believe that the Omaha
Beach-scenes are seen as the memories of the old man on the graveyard. Then,
in the last scene, you learn that that man never was there. I felt
manipulated in a negative way!It was very hard for me to grade SPR. Technically, it's an absolute 10. The
Omaha Beach-scene was extremely good, and I think it's a real homage to the
veterans who were there. But there were too many things I did not like. I
decided to give this movie a 7 out of 10. 

******
8 February 1999
7

All since I was a kid, I used to envy the soldiers fighting against Hitler,
and wish for being one of those attacking at Normandie in '44, but now that
I've seen Save Private Ryan, I'm glad I wasn't there...Speaking as a field medic of the Norwegian stormtroopers, I wish I'll never
go to war. Because if it is as the veterans say, that the movie didn't come
close to the terror of the D-day, I can't imagine the terror they
experienced.I sat the first half-hour with adrenaline pumping and ducking for cover, and
the rest of the film my heart pounded harder than it has in
years.Spielberg has realy done his best here. I've admired his work before but
this movie is brilliant!

******
6 February 1999
7

Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan can perhaps be viewed as the aesthetic
masterpiece that all of his previous endeavors in film has been working
toward.  Private Ryan, from a purely cinematographic point of view, is an
absolute masterpiece, an exploration of the uses of cinematography in a
studio film must be applauded for doing so.
However, the script leaves something to be desired.  The characters are
cardboard cutouts (you know a character is when you can describe him in a
few words) and the fact that the theme is practically drilled into our
skulls by the book-ending modern day sequences should be insulting to the
intelligence of every audience member watching.
Spielberg deserves applause for his technique in Saving Private Ryan, but
how it got filmed in the first place on the basis of its script is beyond
me.

******
4 February 1999
5

Let's begin with the "in your face" gore. Guts on film don't bother me and
I'm sure it was historically accurate. But as a movie, it played out like a
predictable horror film after the first few heart-pumping minutes. Who
didn't see it coming from a mile away when a guy Tom Hanks is dragging gets
blown in half? Pure shock value, not story value.Also, the film doesn't look good. From scene to scene we endure a barrage of
styles--everything from choppy POV (whose?) to grand panoramics. I assume
the drastic changes in cinematography are meant to represent character
experience, but I found them a major distraction to becoming absorbed in the
film.Characters are poorly defined and even stereotypical: the hothead who
doesn't want to follow orders, the 98 lb. weakling who's never shot a gun.
We've never seen those before! The only thing that really surprised me was
that he didn't find his "inner strength" by the end.The modern-day bookends were quite bothersome as well. This device rarely
works because it does nothing more than hinder the audience from being in
the moment. I also had a VERY hard time empathizing with the character who
appears in those scenes (I won't spoil it for anyone who hasn't yet seen
it). We're not given a reason to believe he would feel so strongly later in
life, so I simply couldn't share in his drama.There were certainly some great moments in the film, especially in the final
battle sequence--the stabbing death of one of the soldiers, and another
shooting at a tank with his pistol in desperation. Overall though, the film
just didn't flow and I wasn't drawn in.I think audiences are confusing what they think was a shockingly realistic
war movie with what was actually just plain shocking for a Spielberg movie.
For a good war movie, I'll take Platoon anyday.

******
1 January 1999
6

If a powerful 25 minute opening sequence defines a great movie then I guess
that this is one. Unfortunately I was always under the impression that plot
was also important as is some sort of realism in the plot line. Or did they
really just disregard orders during the war and ramble around doing the
"right thing" after some democratically resolved squad level rebellion. By
the way where were all the other nations soldiers. I know they landed at
different beaches but I could have sworn it wasn't just the US that landed
in Normandy.The typically Spielberg beginning and ending did nothing for me except to
invoke the feeling of "here we go again".The movie is watchable,  has some strong action footage, but in my opinion
is not Oscar material. I suspect however that the red white & blue smaltz
sequences will win over the American voters. 

******
15 December 1998
6

Visually, this is THE best war movie ever made, and everyone should see it
because for younger generations, it's the closest we'll ever get to
understanding that war!  However, Saving Private Ryan has the dumbest plot
I've ever seen, and that takes a lot away from the movie.  It's really
unfortunate that a director of Spielberg's undeniable talent would waste
such a powerful film by using such a stupid story line.  The fact that so
many soldiers had to die -- not only that, but one of the best generals (Tom
Hanks) was taken from the battlefield where his services would have been
much more important -- in order to find one man.  I would not be surprised
to see this movie sweep the Oscars, but based on the weakness of the
screenplay alone, this movie should never get the honor of Best
Picture!

******
23 November 1998
10

This is definitely Spielberg's finest. This film uses the elements of drama,
action, comedy and horror to create a most spectacular movie which depicts
the horrors of what war really is. Wanna turn off someone from the idea of
going to war? Make them watch this!

******
1 November 1998
5

Yet another Hollywood product where an incredible amount of money is spent
on stars, special effects, huge sets... anything but story. The plot in SPR
is just too lame. If the intention is to show the pointlessness of war then
the story should be absurd - not just stupid. Read Catch 22.Spielberg is good, some parts of the movie are great but that doesn't help.
The melodrama is still there.
People tell me that SPR is an anti-war film. I don't agree The battle scenes
are really repulsive - but - an eternal glory is still offered to the brave
American heroes. And the Germans prove to be bad guys - all of them.I think that SPR is worth seeing for a few amazing battle-scenes, Spielberg's
ability to tell stories in pictures rather than words and for its very good
sound. Not for much else. 

******
28 October 1998
7

Not a bad film, with just one problem.  Wasn't Britain involved in the 2nd
World War somewhere.  Oh no, I forgot, the Americans won it single
handed.

******
19 October 1998
5

Saving Private Ryan wasn't really up to its reputation. The movie did
have its moments and merits but sadly most of those merits were on the
technical side. The effects and the set-ups were great, but that does not
tell much of the movie itself... except that a lot of money was burned while
doing it. So most of the things that money could buy were done beautifully
but the movie didn't really have too much to offer on the other
areas.I left the theatre wondering what on earth were they trying to tell/say
to me with that movie. The first half hour of the movie was good enough to
stand on its feet, showing the madness of the war. But after that the movie
started to stall. There was a lot of useless and over-long scenes that
didn't really add anything to the movie. Except maybe a little frustration
for the viewer. Length is not a bad thing for a movie, as long as the
creators have something to say or to show. In Saving Private Ryan, there
seemed not to be.Technically beautiful, very violent (okay, it's a war movie so maybe it is
acceptable) and rather empty movie. I just hope that it is not becoming a
habit of praising these overlong drama-movies where a fictional story is
placed into a historical context.   

******
7 October 1998
6

A fair movie but who rated it in the very  top?  The same idiotsthat thought Titanic was so great because others said it
was?

******
4 October 1998
10

This may be the best film I've ever seen, a film which give me so much
thoughts and feelings. Although the film is a little bit too cruel and
fleshly, it is a good media to let people think about the reality of a war,
a campaign that can ruin millions of lives and souls. The most horrible
thing to take part in a war is not being killed, but to watch the others
died one by one besides your feet. Think of it, they are flesh and blood,
not the characters in the TV games. Should they be killed just for one or
two people's foolish decision? They all have families, they are innocent. I
appreciate with the decision about that chief marshal, to save private Ryan
and send him home at any cost, he didn't mind to sacrifice 8 soldiers for
giving console to the old lady with 3 sons already died in the battle
fields.Steven Spielburg has produced a very great movie, different from the other
scientific film he had ever made, but it is a most touching film that gives
a good lesson to most of the people. It makes me think about the song "Where
have all the flowers gone?" Yes, there are still battles even in this modern
world, still destroying millions of spirits and families, when will they
ever learn?

******
26 September 1998
6

This is a movie extremely well done with a lot of money and great historical
background but c'mon... this movie doesn't deserve all the fuzz it's been
getting. The plot is silly and the characters are flat (just like all
Spielberg movies). They are completely good or completely evil! Think about
Tom Hanks' character: he simply doesn't exist! Now compare all Spielberg's
movies with Scorcese's movies. Wow, now you see the difference... DeNiro
could never play the captain because he wouldn't HAVE a character. Although
I think Tom Hanks is really great. This movie is just like Amistad. The good
and the evil...  and the emptiness...

******
22 September 1998
5

Like several of the viewers whose comments appear here, I
was
expecting great things because of all the hype, but was
rather disappointed by the film when I actually saw it.
True, the opening and closing half hours are very violent,
with no holds barred in showing us the horrors of war (but
let's face it - is there anyone out there who doesn't
realize that war is horrible?)I think one of the main problems I had with the film was that
is
was yet another of those nauseating "America won the war
single-handed" type films (there were no references that
I
spotted to any other nation's contribution to the D-day
landing). I also found the story line rather weak - the
idea
that a team of men would be dispatched to find one soldier
just because his brothers had been killed is hard to swallow.
Tragedies such as that must have occurred many times in
WW2,
and I can't imagine the military would go to those lengths
every time it happened.The script is also rather weak - for most of the middle
part
of the film, very little happens, and the scenes where
the
soldiers try to give deep philosophical insight into their
feelings about the war just didn't grab me.Sorry, but it's only a 5 out of 10 for me.

******
15 September 1998
6

I am glad I saw this movie and some elements in it tend to justify my anti
-war attitudes, but it is NOT one of the greatest movies of all time. It
might not even be one of the greatest Steven Spielburg movies. Raiders of
the Lost Ark and Jurassic Park are definitely better, and Spielberg has
made several movies that MIGHT be better like Jaws, Amistad, E.T., Close
Encounters of the Third Kind, Schindler's List, and maybe more.Saving Private Ryan is a good movie with some good qualities, and some bad
ones. After how great I had heard SPR was, when I saw it, I was disappointed
in the directing, writing and acting. I expected all of those things to be
great and found the directing to be pretty good, the writing to be pretty
bad and the acting to be mediocre. I'm sorry, but graphic war action which
makes us think long and hard about many things is not enough reason for me
to love this movie as much as so many other people seem to. And the
emotional nature of 3 brothers getting killed in action and the attempt to
bring the last brother home to his mom doesn't cut it either. Because quite
frankly that's pretty much all this movie was about. It was a good movie,
but that's all.

******
12 September 1998
6

as a British man and European I could not help but feel insulted by the
general jingoistic attitude. Where were the other allies, the British,
Canadians, Australians, French, Poles etc.? America did not win the war on
their own and a bit of recognition for the brave men of EVERY country that
died would not have gone amiss. Having the stars and stripes as the opening
and ending shot was little more than insulting to these men.
Similarly, why were the Germans portrayed as deserving cannon fodder? They
were humans too, men fighting for the lives of their friends and family.
Why couldn't we see that? Surely the true horror of war is that on both
sides we are the same simple men.
That aside, it's a fantastic film, despite having a weak plot and
stereotyped one-dimensional characters and is well worth seeing.


******
13 August 1998
10

Awhile back a group of us decided that we wanted to experience what combat
 could of been like. The closest thing we could use for that experence was a
 game called "paintball", We played the game for over 2 years. I won't go
 into a lot of detail about the game other than when you get shot it hurts,
 sometimes it hurts a lot, those of you who have played know what I mean. It
 hurts enough that it makes you go to great extents while you're playing to
 not get shot. This in turn generates alot of emotions, fear, anger,
 cowardness, joy these are a few that come to mind. I want to expand on the
 fear, I've felt my stomach twist into knots as a group of guys bear down on
 my particular position in a game. I've felt scared knowing that what's about
 to happen is going to hurt, maybe alot. Probably only a few readers will
 have any idea of what I'm talking about, but the point is I always got up
 and went home. That's what this movie is about, those that didn't get up
 and go home. I get down on my knees and bow to all of the combat veterans
 that died and those who survived for I had no idea what you went through
 until this movie, thank you. For those of you who have to grind an axe on
 this site with Spielberg, Hanks, or who ever leave it in the closet. The
 movie isn't about personalities or politics it's about war!
Thanks for the forum    

******
10 August 1998
10

War movies have, in the past, tended to lean toward patriotic flag waving or
 antiwar sentiments. There have been a few notable exceptions, such as "Hell
 Is For Heroes" and "Castle Keep".  These movies shine through because they
 depicted the action relatively realistically.  "Saving Private Ryan" is another movie that thrusts the viewer into the
 confusion and carnage.  The action scenes were extremely realistic. 
 If it had tried more to show some of the routine hardships of a combat
 soldier, such as fatigue, cold, hunger, etc., then I think this masterpiece
 of a movie would have been even better.  Even so, I rate this as the top movie of all time!

******
7 August 1998
6

Steven Spielberg ruined this film. The story, script, and acting were great,
 but Spielberg turned it into the most melodramatic film I have ever seen.
 The soundtrack made me gag. I'll give Spielberg credit on one point: the
 battles were the best I have seen. Overall, this is not as good as you've
 heard, it's no where close to the best war movie ever. But if a different
 director had filmed it, it might have been.

******
14 May 2015
5
I first watched this movie years ago on German television and later in
English on DVD and my perception of it changed quite a bid. When I
first watched it I was in a phase of looking for moral and bright
heroes in movies. This movie has none and it utterly disgusted me. When
I watched it again I saw something completely different. I give this
movie a rating which is far off from the majority but there are quite a
few reasons for it: 1. This is a war movie which wants to show the
brutality and maybe(?) senselessness of war in an authentic way. The
beginning scene is pretty good at that and is rightfully one of the
most famous movie scenes of all times. After that the movie completely
falls apart. The Germans just become puppets which can't harm the
heroes neither from perfect positions nor with 10-1 odds. Its absurd
and worse than any 50s war movie I have ever seen. Even John Rambo
would laugh about this. I would call it racism but then again Spielberg
made Schindler so I guess despite him hating Nazis (And rightfully so)
he doesn't hate all Germans. 2. It really feels dated to me because of
1. Since then band of brothers and letters from Iwojima came out which
are much better depictions of WWW and would deserve the rating this
movie has. Things like the bullet going through the sniper vision are
also extreme 90s cheese. 3. On the other hand the acting is still great
from many of the actors. Tom Hanks just delivers. He is the cliché of
the good man in a bad war being forced to do what he does but he really
nails it. As cringeworthy as this cliché is I would say Hanks does it
best. Very good. Dialogue is good and characters act believable in the
boundaries of the movie. 4. Action is also pretty decent. If you like
stuff blowing up its as good as it gets. 5. My main problem I had
watching it the first time still holds up. The movie has insane moral
values. The German prisoner they don't shoot is betraying his promise
later on and gets killed for that. WTF? Its awful but whatever, he is
only one of quite a few Germans they didn't have to kill but did. The
enemy in this movie are really not treated like humans. This really is
a weakness of the movie but I think most movie viewers don't even
recognize that and that is a problem. Letters from Iwojima is so much
better. Final thoughts: It really is the Fury of the 1990s but much
better acted, with better dialogue and embarrassingly(for Fury) better
effects. I still miss more modern stuff like portraying the enemy as
humans and the vulnerability of everyone in the war. Ryan only has that
in the beach scene although the Germans have no face their either.

******
11 January 2014
10
I have always enjoyed most of Spielbergs movies like E.T, goonies, the
mind blowing Jurassic park and of course saving private Ryan. Never has
a movie stirred such emotions in me of sadness and awe. From the moment
the movie begins, so does the true horror of war itself. I've never
been to war but this movie, I believe had given me a good idea of what
a soldier in action goes through. The first 45 minutes left me feeling
horrified and sick and so did the scene where the runner gets shot down
then finished off in a barrage of bullets. It is a bloodthirsty flick
but war is hell and this movie captures that. Tom Hanks performance is
by far his best as an officer who suffers from a form of shell shock
and as his job requires, has to hide his emotions from his troops even
though the loss of his men to save 1 whose brothers have all fallen in
the heat of battle cannot be justified. The finally also is horrific
and Spielberg did an amazing job capturing the horror of war. 1 of the
best films and cinematic experiences I have ever seen. 10 out of 10 for
me. Spielberg is the greatest director of all time. A must see to teach
us why we must be reluctant to go to war. War horse also is the best
depiction of the great war I've seen too. Another Spielberg great.

******
12 February 2013
10
All the bad reviews on here have led me to the conclusion that people
feel smarter by trashing critically-acclaimed and Oscar winning films
like this one. This is one of, if not the, greatest war movies ever
made. The opening 20 minutes is one of the most harrowing battle scenes
ever filmed, and in itself debunks the theory that this is a pro-war
movie. Anyone who wants to go to war after seeing the opening scene of
this film is crazy. This film is poignant and heartbreaking,
particularly Vin Diesel and Private Mellish's deaths, and the idea that
this film is pro-war in any way is ridiculous. A bunch of reviewers on
here criticize the film for only showing the American perspective on
D-Day: hate to break it to you guys, but this is a film about a squad
of American soldiers who go on a mission to find an American
paratrooper whose brothers have been killed in combat. Putting another
country's perspective in this film would have been ridiculous and
wouldn't have fit in with the rest of the film. As for the other
arguments against the film, which are basically a bunch of nit picky
details like the type of rifle they are carrying or an insignia on
someone's uniform or some other ridiculous historical detail that
really has no effect on the film at all, this movie never pretends to
be a documentary, and shouldn't be taken as one. Some of these people
cite The Paths of Glory or The Longest Day as examples of great war
films, and don't get me wrong, I loved both movies, but I could write a
whole list on their historical inaccuracies. Films like this one should
not be analyzed as documentaries, but should be taken for what they
are-excellent, well-filmed, well-acted, harrowing, and heartbreaking
films that bring the brutality and horror of war into our lives.

******
6 February 2013
10
I spent some time reading old posts in here. Some of them are terrible.
One post suggested that the baby boomer generation had to try to prove
they were as good as the generations before them. I have no clue what
that means. Other post suggest the movie is average once the beach
scene is over. This movie is incredible. Every mission, every detail,
the thought process of each character, their personalities, makes this
movie about as true to life as a movie can get. It is an epic piece of
work and kudos to all the actors in this picture that bring this film
to life. If the very first and last scenes, not the beach scene or the
battle scene in the abandoned town at the end, I mean where the elder
Ryan visiting Capt. Miller's grave doesn't drive home what this movie
is about then just stick to comedies.

******
16 April 2011
10
To call this movie a masterpiece is an understatement. What Spielberg
has done here has transcended the viewing of a motion picture and
created an experience in movie making. This is emotional, unbelievable
storytelling and a depiction of a war that makes you feel like you are
there. Now is this the most original story ever told? No. The storm of
Normandy has been shown before. The story has been told before. (This
is pretty much another story like that of the Brother's Sullivan, who
are talked about in the movie)However - It has NEVER been depicted like this EVER! The first thirty
minutes of this movie will have you glued to the screen. If there is
popcorn in front of you it will NOT be getting touched let alone passed
anywhere. It is brutal, real, amazing, shocking, TRUE and for a movie
the most realistic battle scene ever put on screen. Spielberg puts you
on the beach. The sounds alone envelope you. This is a movie for the
big screen and surround sound. Also, I must mention the amazing John
William's musical score is nothing less then brilliant accompanying the
visuals on screen. That music alone tells such an emotional fantastic
story!Actual War veterans who lived through this part of our history said for
the most part that what you are seeing on screen by Spielberg is the
closest thing ever depicted of that war besides actually being there.
(Some could not finish watching the scene) So if you want to see a
movie that is so much more then a movie. See this! It centers around
one of the most important wars if not the most important for this
country and the rest of the world. To be clear though, this movie is
not just about that war. The story is told during that time period of
our history centering on this one battalions search for a man.OK, how about the rest of the movie? The searching and hopefully the
rescue of Private Ryan? Excellent! You will be interested and want to
know what happens. A great cast and masterful movie making keep you
glued to the end. Oh and Mr. Spielberg does a fantastic job in
bookending this movie with two wonderful scenes that tie it all
together.I original saw this with my dad on it's original release in theaters.
After the movie I asked him what he thought. He literally could not
speak for like twenty minutes. Watched it again just recently with my
girlfriend. Reaction was pretty much the same. Nothing to say for a
bit. This movie leaves an impression and does what many a movie does
not. You walk away experiencing something so much more then a movie. A
small glimpse of our history and US as human beings enduring all the
horror, war, laughter, tears and ultimately family and love that keep
us wanting to go on.

******
3 April 2010
9
Spielberg turns out a war movie which is both harrowing and gripping,
not to mention being an essay on both the futility of war and also the
opposing view that sometimes it is right to embrace that futility.I don't want to repeat (excessively) many, many other comments, so I'll
just say that the two combat sequences which bookend the main narrative
are staggeringly visceral and must be the nearest experience to war
combat short of being in it. These sequences are astonishingly well
staged.Hanks has never been better, and the rest of the cast is also
excellent. But this is Spielberg's film.

******
5 March 2010
10
The finest war drama movie you will ever experience.Saving Private Ryan
takes you to the path where everyone has his own path,everyone thinks
his own way,but why all have to sacrifice just for one.The horrors that
each face while searching for Ryan is too compelling.Tom Hanks.Oh boy,what a performance by him again.I cant remember a flop
movie of him at the box office.No wonder why he is the favorite of
Spielberg.Tom Sizemore & Jeremy Davies have also given a brilliant
performance.Matt Demon also does a fair job.The war scenes are just too gruesome & gory at some points but truly
battles are fought like these only.True depiction of what lies in
war.The horror,the suffering & the truth.The cinematography is too good
& the editing is even better.Horrors of the soldiers is just too
influential.Everyone has some guilt.Everyone wants to go home but then
duty lies in front of them.The question is do they find Ryan in the
end.If they do,was he worth it.You have to see this to believe
this.Awesome movie.The speech given by Gen. George C. Marshall is just too good.I like to
share the last lines of that speech. (Gen.George C. Marshall):"I pray
that our heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement,
and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost, and the
solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon
the altar of freedom. Yours very sincerely and respectfully, Abraham
Lincoln."Last but not the least.The end credits of the movie are fascinating.So
sit on & listen to it(Hymn to the fallen).Saving Private Ryan,you earn this.My personal 10.

******
1 February 2010
10
Saving Private Ryan is Spielberg's anti-thesis to the action movie,
indeed the blockbuster ideology. From the man who made his name, indeed
inspired a entire movement if you'd like to label the blockbuster so,
in making 1975's Jaws; a film that skipped along the boundaries of
comedy, horror and sheer action driven spectacle, comes a film that
combines the latter two of those three and approaches them from a
completely different angle. Whilst Spielberg-helmed; starring
functional, friendly, relaxed and 'accessable' lead Tom Hanks; released
in the summer month of July in America, but getting a more realised
winter period release everywhere else and very much arriving as a genre
film, Saving Private Ryan is anything but the usual
summertime-Spielberg-Hanks led flick, instead turning a entire
'promise' into a thing of pure terror. In a summer that saw Deep
Impact, Armeggeddon and Godzilla released in close proximity, Saving
Private Ryan must have been quite the jolt.People have written in the past about the degrees of sentimentality and
the nuisance to do with the unreliable narrator. I think it's
impossible to look, or even think, back to the times of The Second
World War without a sense of sentimentality. The notes that accompany
the DVD state that Spielberg attempted to get across that orally guided
sense of the father telling the child, ie; his father informing him of
the horrors of the war. Such an approach, to some, might sound a little
convention, indeed like a cliché, or something that contains a degree
of sentimentality. Essentially, this is exactly what Spielberg does in
Saving Private Ryan; he doesn't trivialise in rendering it TV movie of
the week built around some harsh battle scenes, he delivers on a
true-to-life narrative as told through the perspective of someone who
wasn't there but is aware of the horrors, much in the way anybody born
post WWII might attempt to re-imagine what it must have been like to
fight under certain conditions.The film is, in fact, delivered by way of a flashback  a delving into
the past a specific soldier does in order so that we may relive what
occurred over the space of half a dozen or so days, echoing Spielberg's
own relation to the war stories of old by way of his father. The film
is about unity; teamwork and the risk of sacrifice those undertake for
individuals they are yet to meet, for the platoon in Saving Private
Ryan it is an individual they know is out there but in the grander
scale of things, it is for people spanning a number of generations
across a number of nations they will certainly never encounter.Following the flashback, Spielberg provides us with a few seconds of
calm before the storm in the form of waves lapping up on a beach. The
place is northern France, the event is D-Day in 1944. Much has been
written about the landings, going into them would only repeat what has
been said but it's worth noting that the first lines anybody ever says
once all the vomiting and praying in the landing crafts has stopped
arrives in the form of a load of military directions and ramblings
which the viewer might not properly hear, enhancing confusion and a
sense of disorientation just prior to the drawn out sequence of
carnage. With this, and as pointed out in a review in a publication,
the casting of Hanks as Captain John Miller gives the audience
something to map onto amidst the chaos, as actors that do not carry
similar weight to Hanks are either blown apart around him or placed in
this Hellish cauldron. However, years later the likes of Pepper; Burns
and Diesel have since established themselves as names and face thus
threatening to dampen the intended purpose of anonymity Spielberg
meant. Viewing it recently, I do not feel any of the impact is
particularly lost.Their eventual mission to seek out the Private Ryan of the title, a
certain Matt Damon, who's located somewhere pretty deep within northern
France; deep enough so that the march there will last half a dozen or
so days march for the troops. Miller's platoon is made up of the guys
that survived with him on the beaches of D-Day plus a certain Private
by name of Upham, a trilingual troop played by Jeremy Davies who does
his usual scrawny; softly spoken; seemingly untrustworthy and somewhat
ill-at-ease-with-everyone-else act which was fresher back then than it
is now. Miller's professionalism is only enforced by talk of a highly
dangerous, off screen mission he undertook; one that saw him and his
crew knock out a number of German anti-air craft guns. Dennis Farina's
somewhat impressed and therefore transfixed gaze locks onto a talking
Miller, as the emphasis in his character's superiority in military
activity is encored. He and his platoon's journey is punctuated by
interactions with French families; German snipers; machine gun nests
and conflicts with each other as they go in search.To say the film concludes with an almighty shoot-out between two sides
in a bombed out and long since deserted French town, would be grossly
misleading. In a sense, an action film might very well 'build' to an
explosive and dramatic set piece but while Saving Private Ryan might
conform to a series of heroic actions, followed by a twist in fate just
as a fatal blow is about to be struck to whom we think is the 'lead',
the lingering feeling is on the sense of loss more-so spectacle. One
might argue the sequence comes across as more stark and more
frightening than the opening beach landings simply because of the
presence of the reason the platoon are even there; the fear of loss of
life comes across as more prominent in a film that has thus far
displayed a massive amount of loss. The film is a towering achievement,
and one of the better films out of the decade that-was the 1990s.

******
8 November 2009
8
Saving Private Ryan rekindled an interest in the media about the Second
World War, with the TV Series Band of Brothers, films ranging from the
Great Raid to Enemy at the Gate to Pearl Harbor and computer games like
the Medal of Honour and Call of Duty series. Saving Private Ryan is
also noted for its use of realistic of violence and war combat, which
has continued into further films and television programmes.Set during the early days of the invasion of Europe by the Allied
troops, a platoon of American soldiers led by Captain John Miller (Tom
Hanks) is assigned to find Private James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), an
soldier who 3 brothers are killed in action. He has a ticket home. The
mission sounds simple enough, but Ryan was in the 101th Airborne and
dropped behind enemy lines before D-Day. Miller's Platoon has to go
through enemy territory to find one man. The platoon who are assigned
with Miller start to question the mission, especially when their men
start dying.The war scene, especially the D-Day scene are some of the best
committed to film. It shows that war was very brutal, very bloody,
confusing and the need for good tactics and good men. The film makes an
effort to show a mixed picture, that the Germans were a soldiers, not
monsters or all Nazis, whilst some Americans can be arrogant and even
committed war crimes, like killing surrendering soldiers. It is so much
better compared to a one-dimensional film like Braveheart. Spielberg is
a great director, and avoids shooting the film in a ordinary way. He
uses a hand-held style, and his cinematographer Janusz Kamiński films
in a washed out look, giving the film a documentary, gritty feel. He
knows how to make a film visually wonderful. They is an excellent cast,
Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Matt Damon in leading roles, whilst even small
roles were filled by established actors like Ted Danson and Paul
Giamatti. Tom Hanks is the most well developed character, making you
care about what happens to him and what drives him throughout the film.
Many of the characters have backstorys like Private Ryan or character
traits like the arrogant Jew or the sniper who was a committed
Catholic.There are however problems with this film. The script and story are
weak. They are character clichés like the wimp, the ultra good officer
who is committed to the mission, the brave soldier, etc.... On the
other side of the coin some characters simply disappeared off the
screen because you couldn't care about them. The story is also
ridiculous; could you really picture the American military risking a
whole platoon to save one man, a private, a farm boy from Iowa?
Especially with him being in the middle of enemy territory and not
knowing where he was, not fighting on the frontline. It's hard to
suspend your disbelief. The film is also a normal piece of American
Patriotism, showing how great their were. I know it's an American
story, but it ignores some of the darker elements which other writers
and directors would have focused on, mainly non-American filmmakers.
They was no mention of the British or Canadian forces fighting, and
even Robert Rodat writes a line which pretty much an attack on Field
Marshal Bernard Montgomery, a British war hero. Rodat must have some
issues with the British because he also wrote the really awful The
Patriot. Saving Private Ryan also has the same problem that Gladiator
has, that it's opening is so good that nothing else in the film can
compare to it.Saving Private Ryan is a example of a director improving on the script
he is given. Worth watching, a good Oscar win for Spielberg, but The
Thin Red Line should have won Best Picture in 1998, over Saving Private
Ryan and Shakespeare in Love.

******
30 April 2009
10
This film grips you from the very beginning and holds you spellbound
through the entire movie--it has all the elements of an endearing
classic that both informs and entertains. In reading the other reviews
it is absolutely amazing that anyone would rate this movie below 7 or 8
stars. It seems the detractors fall generally into two camps--those
that do not like the fact that the German soldiers were not shown in
the same sympathetic manner as the Americans and those with such
virulent anti-American or anti-war sentiments that they are simply
incapable of forming an objective, rational, and honest opinion. In
other words, their negative reviews of the movie are an expression of
their political/ideological views, not their honest assessment of the
quality of this movie, which does a disservice to this movie and to
those they may dissuade from seeing this film. So don't let the
negative reviews stop you from watching this movie--it is truly one of
the best movies ever made of any genre. If you are a fan of great film
making, you will love this movie--if you are virulently anti-war or
anti-American, this film is not for you.

******
4 April 2009
9
Now I cannot speak from any sort of personal experience,not militarily
nor age-wise(my late maternal grandfather actually was in the European
theater of command during WWII,and missed being involved in D-day by
not that much,if I'm to understand correctly),so I would and could not
dispense with any of the critiques that I've read here regarding how
true or authentic the military/war element of the film was(and there
were about equal parts of both those who thought this show was the
best/very accurate and those who thought this wasn't even
close/completely inaccurate,from what I was able to divine off the long
rolls of comments). So I can only review this the way someone in my
position can:namely,from how it directly affected me.And for that,this film is completely and totally spot-on.The possibly fictionalized account of an Army expeditionary unit's
dispatch to find the lone surviving brother of five servicemen who were
killed in action because of an obscure rule in the military that
pertains to surviving siblings during war. The unit is led by
quiet,dignified schoolteacher Captain John Miller(Tom Hanks,who really
is a study in steady perseverance here)and the troops are predominantly
young(i.e. 19 to 27 year old men)and prone to the usual emotional
swings that occur amongst young men who are both brave but
bewildered,uncertain of the mission and colored by their own personas.To say that this movie is manipulative would be an understatement,but
then,how else does director Steven Spielberg roll? From the highly
personal camera-work,simple yet emotive dialog and--last but not
least--the grinding,crunching,raw,explosive sound,visual and special
effects(and the editing that went with it!),this movie will most
certainly draw a reaction out of you the viewer,whether
positive(largely what I felt)or negative. To me,if a movie cannot be
able to elicit a reaction,physical,emotional or both,then it really
cannot be considered a potent film. Conversely,if it can create ANY
reaction,then kudos to the makers. This film had me feeling a whole
range of emotions through its run(much of it anger and low,grinding
fear).I'm sure there are equal arguments as to the legitimacy of a
military,historical or cultural film that Saving Private Ryan either is
or isn't. Either way,this movie creates a powerful,raw and memorable
feel that does not abate with watchings. Not a favorite,I suppose,but
an excellent work of cinema. 9.5 out of 10

******
22 March 2009
6
Saving Private Ryan I saw the film when if first came out, and I really
liked it. Upon revisiting it, I've come to find the film to be very
cheesy. The beginning and the ending were trite and contrived. My
grandpa is a WWII vet so please don't think I'm being overly negative
here  I like what the film has to say, but I just think that it was
executed way too on-the-nose. It should have been subtler. I think that
the second act is beautifully done and exciting story-wise, I was very
into it. The sound design throughout is UNBELIEVABLE I really felt
like I was there with those soldiers. I also think that the
cinematography was beautiful. There are moments of great work in this
film, powerful work, in fact, but the tacky ending nearly ruined the
whole experience for me. Spielberg has done better and worse.

******
28 September 2008
10
I am only 12 years old and yet I think i felt the true meaning of this
film-making masterpiece. First of all, the opening 24 minutes is the
most gruesome, bloody, and most realistic war-scene I have ever seen.
It makes me feel as if I was in one of those boats getting ready to
fight for my life. The movie just gets better as it moves on. I grow
attached to every single one of the characters and as i see them
dropping one by one i can't help but to shed a tear. You might think
just because I'm 12 that i like just the bloody battle scenes. But I
always ponder the question "Is it right to save one man's life if it
costs' you 5?" I simply do not know. Overall I believe that this is the
by far the greatest war-movie of all time. The greatest overall movie
might be pushing it a little but it is definitely one of my favorites.
I've seen the movie about 6 times and after each and every time i see
it about 5-6 weeks later I'm still thinking about it(especially the
opening scene). This movie is simply incredible and if you have never
seen it then what are you waiting for? This is definitely one of the
greatest experiences you'll ever have after watching a movie.

******
4 September 2008
10
I saw this gripping and grizzly film at the young age of 9! Yes, nine.
Even at that age I felt the pain and and triumph of the soldiers. The
first 25-minutes are so edge-of-your-seat material, that it's no wonder
the majority of networks air this with little, if any, commercial
interruption. This is one insane and intense film.Tom Hanks is great, as well as Tom Sizemore and Matt Damon. Spielberg's
direction is so astounding, it's what makes this what is is: amazing.
There's a t-o-n of gore and blood. The first 25-minutes as
aforementioned are so gruesome, I'm surprised I didn't puke. Yet,
Spielberg knows when we've seen enough, and when all goes quiet, it's
almost like it just happened... in your very own living room.The music by John Williams is beautiful and haunting. From the hymn for
the fallen to some of the battle cues, it's a very good score.The story is inspiring and terrifying, making it all the more real.Overall, Saving Private Ryan will absolutely shake you to the core in
terms of seeing the war and feeling like you're in the thick of it. I
highly recommend this to anyone with strong stomachs, because of it's
epic story and "surreal" realism, it makes for a one-of-a-kind
experience seldom seen in the majority of films today.

******
2 September 2008
10
Forget Apocalypse Now and The Deer Hunter Saving Private Ryan is the
best bar none. The acting is monumental and the action is even more so.
From it's gruelling cinematic opening through to it's profound ending,
Saving Private Ryan delivers on all sides of excellence. Tom Hanks is
compelling as Captain John H. Miller. Hanks hasn't portrayed anyone
quite as captivating since his 1994 Oscar winning success in Forrest
Gump.The visual concept is staggering and undeniably excels anything in the
war genre. Praise to Spielburg though for giving audiences a tragic
look inside to the horrors of war and its various other hellish topics.Cudoes to Saving Private Ryan's raw beauty and magnificence in
re-creating the bloodiness and nightmarish abyss that was war. This
being said, Saving Private Ryan is the best war film simply put and its
visceral grit and substances shine boldly among others.

******
7 August 2008
10
i gave this movie 10/10 coz its simply excellent be it the gory
violence which looked almost real to the combat scenes which were
amazingly shot,this film proves that spielberg is the best directors of
our generation.you don't have to be American to enjoy this movie if you
just have eyes and can take a little gore and violence then this one is
for you.the camera work is just superb and takes you that era of war,
tom hanks as usual is very good with his natural performance and the
supporting cast is also very good,matt damon seemed a little out of the
character but that did not affect the movie in any way.i believe that
matt damon could have been replaced by somebody else but all in all
this is one of the greatest war movies made.

******
24 July 2008
9
Everything that you could have heard about "Saving Private Ryan" is
true.You may have heard about the opening battle footage. It's a little over
twenty minutes long, and it's some of the most violent footage ever put
to film. To be honest with you, I expected worse, but it's not so much
the violence as much as the horror of it all. It's just sickening.(And
I say that as a compliment)When the actual search for "Private Ryan" happens, you're introduced to
the characters and their personalities. They're all very distinct. Some
think that casting Tom Hanks as the captain was a bad choice, but I
disagree. He's perfect. The rest of the cast is just as good. It
features great actors that include Tom Sizemore, Adam Goldberg, Barry
Pepper, Giovanni Ribisi (I related to his character the most), Matt
Damon, and a surprisingly good performance by actor/filmmaker, Ed
Burns. The only actor I had a problem with was Jeremy Davies as the
interpreter. I've seen Davies in several other movies ("Spanking the
Monkey" and "Going All the Way") and he always plays the same annoying
wuss character (picture Henry Thomas, but much skinnier and more
geeky-looking). I dunno, maybe I'm just nit-picking. It WAS kinda
necessary for the character. By the way, there's an interesting bit
part played by a major TV celebrity. I don't know why he's in this
movie, but it was an unexpected surprise.The script was written by Robert Rodat (who also wrote "Fly Away Home"
and "Tall Tale") and had uncredited rewrites from Scott Frank (wrote
"Dead Again" and adapted "Get Shorty" and the great "Out of Sight") and
Frank Darabont (wrote the 1994 version of "Mary Shelley's
Frankenstein," "A Nightmare on Elm Street III," and "The Fly II," but
he's known best for writing and directing "The Shawshank Redemption"),
and though it's not a perfect script, it's a damn good one. My biggest
problem was the bookend parts set in the present. Unnecessary, I
thought.Steven Spielberg is strange in that he'll make mindless movie
blockbusters that are well-directed, but lack any substance, and then
he'll turn around and make "The Color Purple," "Schindler's List," or
"Saving Private Ryan." It almost seems as though he makes some movies
just to fill his pockets, and then once his pockets are filled enough,
he'll do something from the heart. Steven Spielberg truly is a genius
filmmaker, and with as much acclaim as he gets now, he still seems
underrated. I just can't believe that "Shakespeare In Love" got the
Academy Award of best movie when this one was clearly a better film in
every aspect. What a shame.

******
9 July 2008
10
thats right.many nitpickers claim the film is not realistic; clearly they have no
experience with the countless detours, ad hoc actions, revised plans,
FUBAR situations and the like that is part and parcel in the ebb and
flow of combat.the business about Capt Miller's comment about 'the Germans having to
change the barrel of their machine gun and this is the chance to
attack' in the radar station scene is nitpicked by some based on their
knowledge of German weaponry.well big fcukin deal, like no soldier ever made a mistake assessing the
enemy's armaments? the scene simply ADDS to the realism, not subtracts
from it.This is a benchmark war film which I have seen probably more than a
dozen times. I have the D-Day commemorative version. Steven Spielberg
really scooped the attention when it was released. And the opening
scenes, good god, to have run through an unending hail of bullets and
mortar shells, pinned down on a narrow strip of beach, nowhere to turn,
death everywhere, what to do? feel free to view the documentary 'World
at War' where they discuss the invasion in the episode 'Morning'. what
happened, when the situation came to light with the commanders on board
the battleships off shore that had escorted the troop carriers, after
viewing with binoculars and hearing the radio reports, these commanders
TOTALLY AGAINST STANDING ORDERS took it upon themselves to move in
closer within range of the German batteries, and start dishing out some
ordnance to the same German defenders in order to relieve the situation
of the troops pinned down.you got that? THEY PUT THEMSELVES IN HARM'S WAY TO HELP OUT THEIR
COMRADES ON THE BEACH.this is the whole story line of the film; self sacrifice towards a
common goal. the details of which are merely that: 'filling in the
canvas'.I'm just glad these men did such a good job 60+ years ago that my
generation didn't have to repeat it somewhere else.as far as this being American 'propaganda', well feel free to write a
script and produce your own work on the same topic. The fact is Omaha
Beach, the 101st, bitching about Monty's hesitancy and numerous
miscalculations are all part of the widely known history.therefore the realism, which I look for, of this film (as opposed to
actual specific historical events) is right off the scale. I don't care
if its a sci-fi, comedy, western, or drama, I have to see continuous
PLAUSIBILITY in what I'm spending my time and money on.this film, SPR, has that in abundance.

******
4 July 2008
10
I got into this movie expecting a high budget, unreal, action
adventure. Boy was I wrong. As I watched the soldiers storm Omaha
beach, I was amazed at how good the action was. But, as I continued to
watch the action, I started to realize that there was much more to it.
Amidst all the chaos, plain as day, were the dying soldier's cries for
their mothers, the explosions full of severed limbs and torsos, and the
general chaos caused by the death and destruction. And then it hit me,
this must be what the war was really like. And it wasn't good.Asides from the message of the movie, the characters were AMAZING. Tom
Hanks, Adam Goldberg, Matt Damon- I have to say that I think these are
the best performances of their careers. They were just so real... I
really felt for these guys.So, if you are looking for a movie full of the ra ta tas of machine
guns, high budget explosions, and plenty of action, this movie is for
you. But if you are not ready to experience war like it really is, then
maybe you should pick a different DVD at the rental store. But, if your
minds and your stomachs are ready for this film, then brace yourself
for the best movie of all time.

******
19 May 2008
10
You know, many war movies try to get it right, but completely fail.
Great war movies only come around every so often, such as Platoon, Full
Metal Jacket, and Apocalypse Now. However, if you notice something, all
of the movies I just listed are all about Vietnam. Those 3 movies have
all been considered for "greatest war movie of all time", but we
haven't seen a "great" WWII movie in quite a while. Well, the wait is
over. Saving Private Ryan is also in the list, and near the top as
well.Reinacting a battle like D-Day will almost always fail in cinema.
However, Steven Spielberg gets it right and more. Also, when you watch
the battle scenes, it makes any other war movie battle look completely
lame. I know that veterans say that if you haven't seen real combat,
then you just haven't, and I do respect that. It is true. However, when
you talk about combat in the movies, Saving Private Ryan is as close as
you can come.Tom Hanks, once again displaying his talent, plays the roll of Captain
John H. Miller as if he was really in the military. Tom Hanks is just
one of those actors who can play all types of roles, and play them
amazingly seemingly without even trying.There isn't much else to say about Saving Private Ryan, mostly because
I just can't find any other words to describe its brilliance.Saving Private Ryan has its rightful place in history as one of the
greatest war films of all time.

******
28 April 2008
8
It's not easy to recreate something so horrid as war.In fact,I don't
think that anyone can totally recreate it with overwhelming success.You
can get ideas from the people who were there,and that certainly gets
the imagination going,but no matter how bad you make it look,only the
those folks who were there have a clue.That being said,the astounding
recreation of the Normandy invasion in this film is sure to make you
ask questions as to how much worse it really could have been.It is an
amazing piece of work and I admire the way that John Williams' musical
score was saved for the battle's aftermath rather than during the
battle itself.All you heard during the battle was the sound of
combat.Spielberg wanted to make sure to make the viewing experience of
this historic battle was as real as possible.Well done.I also enjoy
this excellent story of how these eight men were sent out to risk it
all so that one man could go home and salvage what was left of his
mother's shattered heart.It's truly one of the most inspirational films
I have ever seen.

******
22 February 2008
9
'Saving Private Ryan' is Steven Spielberg's brave attempt to redefine
the conventional war film, and specifically World War II films. More
than that even, it's an attempt to explain the conflict itself to a
generation that never knew it firsthand. Spielberg proceeds from the
assumption that baby boomers are hardwired to doubt their country's
motives in any war and 'Saving Private Ryan' seems to be his way of
saying there was at least one war the U.S. fought where it was clearly
and completely in the right. Whether he succeeded is something that's
difficult to gauge. In many ways, 'Saving Private Ryan' is your
standard-issue combat flick, albeit a very well-made one. Some scenes
would be almost interchangeable with those from any number of movies
where G.I.'s trudge across Europe and engage the Germans at various
points in heated battles. But there's something else at work here that
none of those earlier films put across in quite the same manner. At
times, it's almost intangible. There is a feeling of the here and now
about the film, that we are really living and experiencing what the
soldiers did. Nothing puts this across more vividly than the opening
scene. After a brief prologue in a present-day French cemetery, the
scene shifts to the bloodiest day of the war, when the Allies landed on
the Normandy beaches. I think it is fair to say that there has never
been a more realistic depiction of what the first few army units faced
in those first awful hours, the chaos, the death, the wholesale
slaughter really of thousands of young men trying to gain a foothold on
the beaches there. I remember reading about an early screening of
'Ryan' for WW2 veterans; one was asked about this scene, and the old
man replied grimly and succinctly, "That's pretty much how it was."
Though nothing in the rest of the film is quite as brutally graphic,
the scene sets the stage for what is to follow. We are reminded that
the vast majority of Americans were not professional soldiers; they
were ordinary people lifted from ordinary jobs to fight in the most
consequential armed conflict in their country's history, which makes
their sacrifices and their courage that much more profound and
poignant. The story, which can easily be seen as an allegory, has to do
with a group of four brothers, all soldiers serving in the war. And all
have been killed in action, except one, the Private Ryan of the title.
It is decided that this family has sacrificed more than its share, and
so a special army squad is dispatched to find Ryan and send him home.
Tom Hanks is perfectly cast as the everyman, generically-named Capt.
Miller, the schoolteacher turned combat soldier. His dying words to
Private Ryan, "Earn this. Earn it!" are the message he (and Spielberg)
hoped the following generation would take to heart. Again, it's hard to
know whether or not that generation has.

******
27 December 2007
10
September 18, 1998 (The day i saw this movie) Throughout the years,there have been war movies that brought back
horrendous memories to veterans who fought in war; to movie buffs it
showed how war can tear up an individual or showed why it was worth
fighting for. In Steven Spielberg's war drama, it is not a division
between what's good and bad, but to show homage to those who fought in
the biggest war of the 20th century.The first 20 minutes of the prologue is one of the most gruesome battle
scenes I've ever watched on screen. We see the boats boarding up
soldiers as they are heading to the murky beaches of Normandy June 6,
1942, which will be remember to most people as the worst battle in
history. Tom Hanks plays Capt. John Miller, who leads his squad in the
terror battle and tries to find his team into the breach as hundreds of
soldiers die. As realistic as it is, we see the carnage of soldiers
getting ripped in pieces, crying for their mothers, and in one scene we
see a man looking for his amputated arm.After the grizzly attack on the beach, Miller has been ordered another
mission; a manhunt for the lost of one soldier after losing three of
his brothers at Normandy, and throughout the film we get to see some of
the most realistic battles since "Platoon," where the violence and gore
plays an important part of the realism; but also get a chance to see to
recognize the characters during the non-violent parts which reminded
audiences members of how these soldiers were like a family."Saving Private Ryan" is one of the best war flicks I have ever seen on
the screen. With a great all star cast from Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns,
Matt Damon, Vin Diseal, Barry Pepper, Giovanni Rebisi, Paul Giamatti
and more. This is one of Steven Spielberg's greatest work ever made

******
2 December 2007
7
An interesting feature of Steven Spielberg, probably the most reliable
hit maker outside the Michael Bay realm of idiocy, is that he often
seems very clumsy with things that are the furthest away from the
technical aspect of his films. There's often a quality of naiveté that
simply would make the film more interesting and adult if it just was
cut.Saving Private Ryan has one such annoyance. And that is a rather common
one; claiming a war as one side's story. In Private Ryan, this would be
the bookend scenes which serve no purpose to the story, but to cram the
supposed message down the viewer's throat. Every country has had its
wars, it is insulting to millions to claim the story of human suffering
in war is exclusive to one person, one side or one war. Also,
Schindler's List has similar scenes that begin and end the film,
although they are not as bad.While everything in Private Ryan is technically as good as it will ever
get, the story and the characters seem out of place. The only properly
fleshed out characters are Hank's mysterious captain and Davies'
inexperienced clerk that obviously serves as the characters most people
can relate to. The rest of the characters aren't that memorable if you
think of them as personalities, not ranks. And, Tom Sizemore plays a
sergeant here, the believability coming from the fact he's played the
same role about a zillion times. There are a few interesting cameos
with Ted Danson and Dennis Farina.The story, while a typical "road movie with soldiers" at least is not
as standard as a retelling of a battle, is nowhere near Apocalypse Now
or other movies treating soldiers as passers by. It's near to a typical
Hollywood version of a war mission and something you could imagine John
Wayne doing. This obviously was the purpose, making an old fashioned
war movie, but it clashes with the realistic battle scenes.The battle scenes. They simultaneously make battle look like something
horrible, something you want to be a part of and actually instantly
create a bunch of clichés. Details such as the exaggerated sound of a
M1 carbine running out of ammo (a very common detail if you watch a WW2
movie made after this OR even better - play a WW2 video game), the
scene in which someone is talking and suddenly is hit to the head, the
scene in which the viewer (situated in the middle of the fighting)
can't hear anything because of shell shock. Whoa.Interestingly, this movie proves the quote: you can't make an anti-war
movie and not make war look even more sexy in the end.I'm not saying Saving Private Ryan is a bad movie. I'm just saying a
lot of its flaws are glossed over thanks to the execution and respect
to war veterans (who I of course respect as well, not depending of the
side). Essentially, a similar film with better characters, similar
technical awesomeness and fact instead of fairytale is the miniseries
Band of Brothers, another project from Hanks and Spielberg.

******
20 October 2007
10
Is,in my opinion,the best movie ever made.It's shows the ugly face of
war,but in the same time,the real one.I don't have this movie.Yet.I
have only see it on TV 16 or 17 times.Tom Hanks is an excellent movie star.This role suits him like a
glove.And Steve Spielberg is without doubt the greatest.If there was up to me,i'll show this movie every people in the world,so
they will see how a war is won.Sometimes a soldier can die,as long as
the army stay alive.That soldier can be you,can be me,can be your
son,your brother,your father,or someone dear for you.Just take a closer
look to the message of this movie.Is not only about death,it's about
life,and how this is.Hard.,,Earn this life.Live it well,and remember all of us that died for
you,Earn this!Live your life well!''

******
21 August 2007
9
This movie starts with the most intense scenes of all time. It just
takes you there and makes you bite your tongue. I can't imagine how
nobody (at least I don't remember) have ever done before the
up-down-water thing Spielberg did in the beginning. It just blow me
away with se sounds and the images. Really amazing and so simple that
you can't understand how nobody else has got that before, but I guess
that is what makes Spielberg such a great director.The reality in this film is amazing, you can feel the blood and the
sweat and the screams. You feel like fighting yourself. But the realism
isn't perfect. The camera movements etc. makes for a wonderfully
looking and realistic film but the fighting scenes in the end.. come
on. The Tiger tank was it's time most deadly killing machine ever
invented, it was impenetrable. How on earth you destroy that with a
sticky bomb. And how can you run freely around it, it had MGs at almost
every side.Anyway that is a minor flaw because these little unrealistic things
just build up the atmosphere.Spielberg, one of our time's greatest director, shows once again his
only weakness.. sentimentality. American banners everywhere, no signs
of UK, Canadian or any other county's soldiers. That overly sentimental
bs popped up to my eyes only a couple of times though so it's not a
real problem.Overall the film is superb and keeps you at the edge of your seat from
the beginning to the end, the almost complete reality, the
characters... nice movie.The last thing Hankses character says left me thinking: "earn this".
That is the most terrible but also meaningfull thing a person can say
before dying to a man he just saved.

******
10 August 2007
9
Lieutenant Colonel Anderson puts Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) on a search
and rescue assignment to find Private Ryan and send him home to his
mom. Along the way they stumble into Captain Hamill and Sergeant Hill. They
take out a sniper, suffer losses when they battle some Germans, and
they bond together in a church and along the way find out about Captain
Miller's home life.Steven Spielberg directs this epic masterpiece and his amazing sidekick
Michael Kaun edits. The story by Robert Rodat is realistic and an
accurate representation of D-Day. The story is told in a flashback
process of Private Ryan remembering back to when Captain Miller saved
his life.The excellent casting, the special, visual effects are stunning, the
acting at the top of it's game, the gripping story, and the realism of
it all makes this one worthwhile of many, many viewings. It is one of
the best movie of the 90's and it's possibly Hank's best performance of
his career.To not watch this and enjoy would be a tragedy and I'd have to question
that person as to why they didn't enjoy it. It's simply too great to
not entertain you. Recommended.

******
3 July 2007
8
This movie is renowned for its realistic portrayal of the D-Day assault
on German occupied France. This film is unlike any other war movie you
will ever see.Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) survives the landings on Omaha beach
but then has an even greater challenge thrust upon him. Three of the
four Ryan brothers are killed within days of each other and the U.S.
army chief of staff, General George C. Marshall decides that every
effort must be made to return the fourth brother (Matt Damon) home to
the broken hearted mother. Unfortunately he was parachuted behind enemy
lines and no one knows where he is. Captain Miller is ordered to lead a
team to rescue him. He faces all the challenges of a 'behind enemy
lines' mission along with the inevitable question of why his men must
risk all their lives for just one private. Sit back, turn off the
mobile and allow yourself to be taken on a stunning visual spectacle.
You are thrust face first into the horrifying drama of the D-Day
landings and witness dramatic close quarter conflict. But this is more
than a war story. The human characteristics of leadership, bravery,
fear, grief, decency and much more are all skillfully examined. The set
is completely convincing even thought many of the scenes were shot
outside France.The film won five Oscars including the Directing and Cinematography
categories but very unjustly lost to 'Shakespeare in Love' for best
picture.This movie is a true masterpiece of terror, chaos, blood, and courage.It's safe to say Saving Private Ryan popularized a lot of the "war
techniques" you've seen lately, and that the consequences of Saving
Private Ryan's brutal portrayal of war will be felt for a long time
coming.Saving Private Ryan may not be as beautiful, lyrical, or complex as
(for example) Malick's Thin Red Line, but it will certainly influence a
lot of films that will come after it (more so than Malick's
masterpiece) for the better. 9/10

******
18 June 2007
10
Being a history genius, I have seen many war movies in my day, but none
have really put it all out there as this movie did. Steven Speidberg
didn't hold anything back in this movie, especially in the beginning
scenes into the breach. This movie was made as a testament to the
greatest generation that ever lived, and to the greatest army unit that
ever lived, the 1st army rangers, to believe these men climbed up 100ft
cliffs, with MG-42 machine gun fire pouring down on them, and all the
time, all the Germans had to do was roll boulders down on theme, and
cut their lines, but they still made it up the cliffs to destroy the MG
Nests. No other movie shows so many bullets flying around and so much
constant action going all around you in all angles, from people trying
to find there very own body parts from the many that are lying around
from other men, just the beginning 40 minutes of this movie will give
you all you can really handle, because your thinking how many GI's can
possibly survive just the invasion of the beaches. Not only that, but
you feel so helpless for the GI's because if they don't take the beach,
they are in a world of s*** because there is no where to retreat to, in
this moment in history, the world came to suspenseful pause to watch
which superpower was going to be the big boy on the block, wethere it
was Germany's Fascism, or Americas Democracy. I am just tallking about
the first 40 minutes, now its your job to see the whole movie, trust
me, you will not be disappointed, I personally see this movie
minimally, once every 3-4 weeks, and yes that bayonet seen with Pvt.
Mellish is heart-breaking, the drama is classic, as you see Mellish
breath slower, and slower, as that bayonet slides further and further
into his heart and then he twitches less and less, and all the while
his scared bastard comrade upham is hiding shi**** his pants off, man
what a thrill ride this movie is, it is said to make grown men slightly
break a tear, and for all you real WW2 fans go and invest in Medal of
Honor: Airborne, it looks like the next generation in WW2 Combat, the
realism and the graphics are unmatched.

******
21 May 2007
10
this movie i saw it when i was 13 and it was one of the most powerful
movies of the decade it was an Fcuking crime it didn't win for best
picture the performances are powerful there are characters u love and
others u hate this is one my favorite movies ever there are some
intense sequences like the first twenty minutes or so which are the
invasion of Normandy which have very disturbing sequences. it is a very
emotional movie with great performances by Tom Hanks Barry Pepper Ed
Burns Jeremy Davies Tom Sizemore And Giovanni Ribisi And Masterful
directing by Steven Spielberg MPAA rated R for prolonged realistic war violence and language My Rating R for intense sequences of violence disturbing images carnage
and strong languageThank you i hope u find these comment usefulPS try also watching Black Hawk Down And Band of Brothers

******
19 May 2007
10
Well the first time I saw the movie I was totally blown away by its
proportions, the reality of the action sequences, and the authenticity.
It is the first time we get to see the "real" reality of war so closely
and without holding back any punches.The first sequence where they try to enter the beach is really scary
and if you have a weak heart will shake you to your soul. The sound of
the bullets, the blood, the torn bodies, it just pulls you of your feet
and makes you land in the middle of that horrific war. The direction is
just genius, the story is engaging with just the right amount of
emotions in the mix. Steven Spielberg did a brilliant job with this, he
gives you all the facts of the situation and lets you decide whether it
was right for all those 8 men to lay their lives on the line to save
just one guy.I have never had any doubt that Tom Hanks is a great actor but in this
movie he just raises the bar for acting, he should have won the Oscar
for this role. He just makes you believe he is Captain Miller and
engages you in his own world.All the character actors are good and play their part well, they play
with your emotions and make you connect with them.Its a must watch if you are a war movie fan, and even if you are not

******
28 January 2007
9
Reading several of the negative comments about this film, I concluded
that they could be grouped into a handful of categories, the pedantic,
the America haters, and those who find innate fault with the
Spielbergian tendency to manipulate the audience. For those in the
Spielberg hating camp, I would ask, What do you expect? Audience
manipulation is every bit a hallmark of a Spielberg film as a sappy
ending is to a Capra film or existential Jewish angst is to an Allen
film.As for the other two categories, it doesn't pretend to be an
historically accurate film, it is a dramatization. For the people that
feel that Spielberg depicts the Americans as purely good or the Germans
as purely evil, I would ask you to go back to two scenes, one where GIs
summarily execute a surrendering German, and second, the look of
compassion in the eyes of the German sniper when the GI he has just
shot is trying to hand off a letter to his family.That said, I would focus on the technical aspects of the film. The
initial scene of the invasion looks just like first hand accounts of
the Omaha beach invasion I have read. Veterans of the landing who have
seen the film have attested to the authentic look and feel of the film.
Perhaps what I find most striking is Spielberg's use of old style
cameras and film stock that give the movie an old newsreel type flavor.I won't argue with anyone who accuses the actual mission as being
unrealistic--I would say that the mission itself is secondary to the
storytelling art. It takes little vignettes assembled from stories I
have heard over and over from WW2 vets and tells them succinctly.Hank's character suffers from PTSD, known then as "battle fatigue" ;
Vin Diesel's character was the guy who forgot for one second to keep
his head down and it cost him; the interpreter overcomes his initial
cowardice after it costs his buddy's life; overcome with emotion,
another character wants to summarily execute an unarmed German, but is
talked out of it; two opposing soldiers who have lost their arms attack
each other hand to hand. All of these stories are archetypal and
universal among veterans who survived the war.These characters represent the amalgam of experience of all combat
soldiers; similar to Platoon, its unrealistic to believe that one small
group of soldiers experienced them all, but as a dramatization the
story is excellently filmed and told.

******
29 November 2006
9
OK I'm going to spit this review so here we go.Changing the camera to make the picture more grainy is awesome,
something that works real well, Its a great cast mixed with fantastic
locations, is it real is it fake, you cant tell, If you got surround
sound switch it on to here 'em yell, the quality and realism is so good
you can almost smell, although its occasional lack of polish is where
it fell.It can be watched and watched and watched some more, its a great
sensation, making you want more.Its historical content is all intact, and the talent of the actors this
film don't hold back.don't avoid it thinking "oh its another Spielberg fiasco" Jus watch it
and afterwards all you can say is oh! because its amazing, gripping,
true and tense, oh man does this film makes a whole lot of sense.J.T -take another hit-

******
28 October 2006
9
Saving Private Ryan is a magnificent, beautiful film. It stars Tom
Hanks as John Miller a soldier who is hired to take his team to find
Private Ryan, a fellow soldier who's three brothers have died in
combat. They are told to find him and bring him back even though it is
unlikely that he is still alive.Saving Private Ryan was an amazing movie that shows the true teamwork
and brotherhood between soldiers in a war. It also has some brilliant
acting performances by Tom Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Vin Diesel and Matt
Damon. This movie somehow manages to have gross and disgusting action
sequences but at the same time it is very touching and moving.I would highly recommend this movie to anyone.9/10

******
25 October 2006
8
The storyline was something new to look at, with the brilliant
photography it makes u stick to the screen for 2:30hrs. I can say that
its one of the few good movies i have seen. The battle scene in the
start was brilliantly shot, i don't if thats how things are in a
war,but i think it was an ambush and so it was acceptable. People who haven't seen the movie, do check it out if you are an
admirer of war movies. Acting of Matt dammon and Tom Hanks was really
good, no name a few. Its a fast paced movie doesn't get u always think
about the brutality of wars,but the thought of mankind killing fellow
mankind to extend their boundary lines or to show their superiority but
The story line was new but don't know if thats how things happened at
the time of war, 10 people having on the line to save guy. But Its A
Must Movie To Watch.

******
23 October 2006
10
Winner of five Academy Awards® including Best Director, the film also
captured Oscars® for Cinematography, Film Editing, Sound and Sound
Effects Editing. More than 70 critics and critics' groups in New York,
Chicago, Dallas Ft-Worth and Great Britain named the film Best Picture
of the Year, while the Los Angeles, Toronto and Broadcast Film Critics
honored it with both Best Picture and Best Director awards. In
addition, Spielberg received his third Directors Guild of America
Award, the American Legion "The Spirit of Normandy" Award, a USO Merit
Award from the USO of Metropolitan Washington, as well as the highest
civilian public service award from the Department of the Army. Selected
for more than 160 Top Ten lists, Saving Private Ryan's other honors
include Golden Globes for Best Picture (Drama) and Best Director, the
Producers Guild of America Award and ten nominations from the British
Academy Film Awards. Saving Private Ryan was the top-grossing motion
picture of 1998.Seen through the eyes of a squad of American soldiers, the story begins
with World War II's historic D-Day invasion, then moves beyond the
beach as the men embark on a dangerous special mission. Captain John
Miller (Tom Hanks) must take his men behind enemy lines to find Private
James Ryan, whose three brothers have been killed in combat. Faced with
impossible odds, the men question their orders. Why are eight men
risking their lives to save just one? Surrounded by the brutal
realities of war, each man searches for his own answer - and the
strength to triumph over an uncertain future with honor, decency and
courage.As I have watched this movie, I was astounded and amazed with this
brilliant and perfectly made film. I think no war movie can replace
this one. While watching it, it really seems like you're with them in a
real war. The plot and story are great! You'll really feel what war is.
It's sad, emotional, and historical. You will realize that life is
important even with your enemies. Unity and courage are the morals of
this movie. I insist you watch this movie. You'll surely enjoy and
watch it over and over and over again! I'll give this perfect 10
rating.

******
16 October 2006
10
The first 30 minutes of this movie are perhaps the most compelling 30
minutes of cinema ever filmed.The chaos of war, the moral decisions made and not made, the bravery of
those under fire on *both* sides... all is here.As the plot continues, you see more moral ambiguity, and more moral
certainty. War *is* hell, and that is clearly seen here.Tom Hanks gives his best performance (just ahead of Philadelphia), and
all of the featured players perform more than admirably.I do need to give a shout-out to the Translator. He is the one in this
piece who I can most closely identify with... an intellectual forced by
his own convictions to join the war effort, but struggling with the
realities of the war. I fully understand his fear, and his strength.

******
4 September 2006
10
i saw this with my 3 brothers when it was released. It was the first
time i've ever sat all the way through and not uttered a sound until
the film was finished.that's saying something. the film was incredible in the cinema.next watching was on DVD. the whole film all the way through with no
breaks. again, the film was awesome.and today i've just seen it again on the TV.the film does get better each time I see it. I notice more and more
things, recognize more actors and notice more mistakes.Things that annoy me. Hanks salutes his superior when he goes for his
"find Ryan" briefing but his translator is chastised for doing the
same, why? The men that don't spot the Panzerfaust leaning against the
wall when their trying to stop the 25mm gun from flanking them. It's
right there in plain view in the middle of the screen leaning against a
wall and not one of 4 men spotted it.This time I did see Ted Danson and that weirdo who played Riddick.
Second time in a week for the guy who played Phoebe's brother in
Friends to be on telly (he's also been on twice in Gone In 60 Seconds).the film is excellent.If your considering ever joining the military of ANY country, watch it.

******
25 August 2006
10
Simply put, this movie was a work of pure genius. It is by far the best
work of Steven Spielberg, and one of the best film works in general.
From the historical accuracy to the amazing acting jobs (even from
those people who came into the project as nobodies) to the brilliant
filming style, this movie has all the areas covered. Although through
some of the battle scenes there are areas of excessive gore, the fights
are well done and extensive enough to give everyone a thrill.This movie gives the viewer(s) a perfect window into what it was like
to be in that squad, or to be in the military in general during that
period of the fighting. In depth description of John Miller, the
attitude and mannerisms of Melish, the emotions of loss and despair,
and all of these other elements compiled and created the perfect
opportunity for someone to witness those events, to be in that place at
that time, and gave the chance for veterans or those affiliated with
the war a chance to reflect.Saving Private Ryan was, is, and always will be one of the greatest
movies ever made. Naysayers may site a shaky 'documentary' filming
style as a bad reason, but this adds to the 'window' into these
soldiers adventure. They may say that it contains a very cliché plot
line, which may be true to some degree, but the film makers, actors,
and writers alike gave it an unforgettable element that made it
captivating. These are a few things among many negative accusations
made but let me assure you that they are dead wrong. DEAD wrong. This
movie is not deserving of the title of 'one of the best war movies'. It
deserves 'The Best War Movie'. Saving Private Ryan is a work of genius,
a Must-See, and a Must-Have-McAirellPS Questions, comments, anything? e-mail -> theoneeggy@gmail.com

******
13 July 2006
3
I am a big fan of WWII movies and was looking forward to this movie. I
had heard so many great things about it. I was very disappointed. The
actual photography and special effects were great. The actions of the
people involved to make little sense. The opening at Normandy was well
done but I didn't understand mixing the humor with the gore. But it was
good at showing the brutality. Now the men at the center of the action
were experienced soldiers. We see them using their wits in using
mirrors to look around corners, not exposing them selves to enemy fire,
etc. Everything is fine. Then comes the set up, trying to find the one
private in the sea of humanity. Okay, so they look and finally find
him. Now the logic seems to completely desert the men and they act so
stupid which is a complete 180 from how they acted at the start of the
movie. If they had no combat experience that is one thing but to start
the movie showing how smart they are, then wind up the way they did
just was too much for me.Okay, I accept the decision to stay and fight for no real good reason
because things like that happen. But then they start running out in
front of tanks, stand still while tanks point their guns at them, sit
on their butts when they run out of ammo, and to not even try to find
out where the bridge was in relation to the army? As it turns out if
they had not lured the Germans into their "trap" their fighters and the
whole column would have been up to deal with them without any pointless
fighting. Okay well that could have been a stupid decision but to have
the men act they didn't have a clue about war, they didn't just go
through the brutality of the invasion, was just so contrived it was too
much for the suspension of believe normally called for.I really don't understand why so many people liked it. It seems like
the fact that Spielberg directed it gives in an extra 4 points.
Obviously I am in the minority here. Maybe I watched too many episodes
of "Combat" growing up and my expectation were too high.

******
2 April 2006
3
Although 'Saving Private Ryan' portrays excellent cinematography and
probably a pretty accurate sense of being in a battle in the second
World War, the film failed to do anything more. This film was probably
made for its battle scenes, which I cannot fault at all and for which
this movie does earn some credit for. However, in terms of story and
characters, the film fails. Along with the story, the film has too many
slow movements; overall, it is too long and tends to drag on. If they
had spent as much time on the story as much as they spent on the
cinematography, then we would have had a much better film. Watch it for
the battle scenes and history if you watch it at all.

******
11 December 2005
10
The American army are about to land at the Omaha beach in France. The
moment they land its a blood soaked fight to take the beach. In this
fight is Captain Miller and his troop of men. After the Omaha assault,
Miller is given a mission to find a man and take him out from behind
enemy lines. The man is Private James Ryan. Ryan's brothers have been
killed in action and to bereave his mother the American Army want him
home. Ryan's location is unknown as his paratroop were miss dropped.
Miller and his troop now have to go behind enemy lines to find Ryan,
that is if he's still alive.Saving Private Ryan is an outstanding war drama from master director
Steven Spielberg. The opening beach scene is so brutally violent and
harshly real, yet it honestly conveys the horror of the war. This was
the first movie I saw that violent, but accurately, portrayed the
violent nature of war and the emotions of the soldiers. You are placed
right into the battle; with people being dismembered and shot apart.
The final fight at the bridge crossing is the most intense battle of
the film. It doesn't have the sheer unrelenting violence of the opening
battle, but it is so emotionally charged.Though the violence is confronting, but there is so much drama and
character depth behind the violence. All the people of Millers troop
are three dimensional, you can emotionally attach to them. They all are
bonded too, you can see their comradeship between them. There is also
that naivety to them; they will follow their captain not just on orders
but they trust him without question. Captain Miller has so much depth
to him. You don't find a lot about him, yet you can tell there is much
anguish and longing to leave in his face.Spielberg has taken a more head first look into the second world war.
Shinder's List was about the men behind the scenes and the politics,
while in Saving Private Ryan we are taken to the view of the soldier.
Spielberg's direction is flawless, getting you right into the battle
and evoking so much emotion from all the actors. The acting is also
flawless. Tom Hanks gives one the his best performances ever, he was
brilliant. Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, Barry Pepper, Vin Diesel,
Giovanni Ribisi, Adam Goldberg and Jeremy Davies all bring great
performances as the mix matched group of people, their friendship for
all of them was so believable. Matt Damon though only appearing towards
the end as Private Ryan does a great job also.Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war movies ever made, it is a
masterpiece of cinema.

******
24 November 2005
2
This movie is a great historical film and depicts accurately what life
in the war was like and how people coped with the ideology of war. Yet
despite its many positive qualities it doe have some negative ones that
in some aspects out weight the good one. This movie gets you
emotionally attached to the characters and then the directors
systematically kills them off almost to spite the audience and laugh in
their faces. I understand that war is brutal and there are lots of
fatalities and what not but kill off any soldiers that people
immediately grew attached to was just dumb on the directors part. THis
is why I personally will never watch this movie again because not even
one decent solider was left living at the end that you cared for.

******
29 August 2005
9
What Steven Spielberg has done with "Saving Private Ryan" is
simultaneously craft an enormously successful depiction of World War II
and a touching story that places a platoon of bewildered soldiers in a
world of frantic pacing -- a startling world of gunfire and proceeding
death. The constant movement of the shaky hand-held camera acts as a
first person perspective -- we are not merely viewing the movie, but
participating in it. This is perhaps as close as we will ever get to
realizing the unadulterated fear those soldiers must have felt as they
drew nearer to the beaches of France. It is one of the greatest war
films ever put on celluloid, its scope arguably larger than any other
in the genre, its conflict superb.

******
28 August 2005
5
Saving Private Ryan is a good movie so far as action scenes and
depicting the horror of war is concerned. So far as plot and historical
accuracy goes ... well, as it was once said: "Very few things happen at
the right time and the rest do not happen at all. The conscientious
historian will correct these defects." This is a feature that doesn't
seem to bother too many people, however.The whole movie is based on a laughable premise. When Private Ryan's
three siblings are killed in the war, Captain Miller is given an
assignment to take a squad of men and go find Ryan. Private Ryan is, of
course, behind enemy lines and the mission is highly dangerous
(suicidal, actually). And here we find our very distant relationship to
reality: "The plot was inspired in part by the true story of Fritz Niland, one
of four brothers from New York state who saw action during the war. Two
Niland brothers were killed on D-Day, while another was missing in
action in Burma and was presumed dead, although he actually survived.
Fritz was located in Normandy by an Army chaplain, Reverend Francis
Sampson, and taken out of the combat zone." So, where a priest managed to do the job singlehandedly in real life,
it now takes a squad of battle-hardened soldiers (oh, and a perpetually
cringing typist - THAT was a good idea) to be sent to their doom by the
loving United States government. The soldiers are, of course, acutely
aware of this fact, and they spend no shortage of time dwelling on it
for the viewer's pleasure before they finally end up getting killed.
Spielberg appears to have a bone to pick with the U.S. Government (and
there were, to be sure, bones to be picked), but it would be nice if
this one were at least grounded in reality - and if he weren't quite so
preachy. For viewers somewhat versed in history and who require a
believable plot to enjoy a movie, Saving Private Ryan feels like summer
stock in an iron lung. Couple this with Spielberg's typical cheese-ball
antics (flashbacks, flash-forwards, women swooning, men swooning!,
anything to create an emotional effect with the least possible effort),
and you've got yourself some Academy Award-winning eye candy that will
forever serve as the gold standard in WWII movies.(Just as an aside, Tom Hanks apparently recognized the irony behind
Saving Private Ryan since he went on to produce a well-done 10-hour HBO
mini-series on the 101st Airborne entitled "Band of Brothers" which, in
contrast, IS actually believable, which might have something to do with
the fact that it employs some amount of historical accuracy. You'd be
better off watching Band of Brothers, unless you enjoy the feeling of
being brainwashed.)

******
15 April 2005
9
During the second world war, a selected group of U.S. soldiers is sent
to bring back a comrade who is stationed behind enemy lines. This man's
brothers have been slaughtered on D-Day, and he is being sent back
home.The plot is noticeably silly. in war, especially THIS war, high ranking
officers would not send a squadron out to retrieve one man who holds no
vital information about the enemy. Nor would they send squadrons out to
retrieve men whose blood has been slaughtered.But It is not the plot that drives a person to see a movie of deeply
realistic and harrowing violence. A person watches this movie to go
back in time. Many people (thankfully) will never have to fight in
wars, and therefore would never know the true meaning of terror."Saving Private Ryan" is said to have been the most accurate war
picture ever to be created. Watching it is almost as close as fighting
a real war. you are with the countless men who are destroyed when the
U.S. storm the beaches of Normandy. You sit through all of the personal
conflict among soldiers. You witness the emotions change and tempers
flare. And most of all, you experience a time warp.A movie crafted this well is a true gift; a piece of entertainment that
is so well done that it makes us forget that we are sitting at home
watching a movie with Hollywood actors. This film will become your
world. as terrifying and depressing as it is, it will become your
world.****/****

******
14 April 2005
9
Saving Private Ryan is a great WWII movie. It was one of the first
movies in an ever-growing ultra-realistic WWII accounts. Being an avid
WWII history buff, SPR gives me an insight into what it was like to be
on the beach at Normandy. Hanks and Spielberg really show their concern
for detail in SPR and their later work, Band of Brothers. I would have
given the movie a 10 if is wasn't for the poor performance of Matt
Damon. Damon comes off as a whiny little snot nose. The director should
have caught this and worked it out as it is very distracting. Some
people, especially of late, have said this film is too graphic to show
on TV. However, I really feel this is a film that does not make
gratuitous (sorry for the spelling) use of graphic images. That is what
it looked like and it should be shown like that. Every network shows
the warning before they air the movie and so we should all be smart
enough that if it's too much, FLIP THE CHANNEL! Don't complain that it
was too graphic when you were warned. A movie as realistic as this is
going to be graphic which adds to the impact it makes. Watch this
movie, you'll enjoy it.

******
10 April 2005
8
That and "FUBAR: Fucked Up Beyond All Repair" are two great lines from
this movie. The writing is both believable and nowhere near approaching
any worry of clichés polluting the movie. The direction is superb,
probably what started out the usage of hand-held cameras which have now
been way overused in movies since then. Steven Spielberg really brought
his A-Game to this one. Jeremy Davies as Corporal Upham was good in
this movie as he was able to portray cowardice in a war movie, which
people rarely do and did it very well. Giovanni Ribisi as T-4 Medic
Wade almost stole the show when he talks about how his mother would
come home early just to see him and he would pretend to be asleep. This
ties in to something later on. Vin Diesel as Private Caparzo seemed
very much like a weak-link, only there to get killed. OK performance,
but nothing really to write home about. Adam Goldberg as Private
Mellish who i've only really seen otherwise in "Friends" as Chandler's
roommate Eddie. Didn't really expect he would be all that good but he
put in a great performance as the Jewish soldier and when he gets
stabbed later on in the movie, heartstrings are pulled. Barry Pepper as
Private Jackson has worked with Tom Hanks in both Saving Private Ryan
and the magnificent "The Green Mile" and in both of those movies he has
held his own against the star Tom Hanks and that is good work. Best
when he goes to shoot someone with a rifle and says a couple of
prayers. Edward Burns as Private Reiben isn't that bad, he does well
and was touted as the Next Big Thing but hasn't fulfilled it yet. Tom
Sizemore as Sergeant Horvath is extremely good, definitely became a fan
after this movie, both thumbs up. Matt Damon as Private Ryan is the
macguffin of the movie and actually has a small part in the movie, less
than an hour and becomes just as much a part of this movie as the
others. And the star of the movie,Tom Hanks as Captain Miller does a
magnificent job leading his men as they attempt to rescue a guy that
they know nothing about that is thought of as just another number until
Ryan tells Miller about the last night he and his brothers were
together and Ryan became another human. That should explain the ending.

******
30 March 2005
7
Steven Spielberg made his second historical visit to the time of World
War II (following up from his acclaimed Schindler's List) with this
tale of a group of American soldiers, assigned to find Private Ryan,
the sole survivor of a family of brothers killed in the war.The group assigned to find him are world-weary Captain Miller (Tom
Hanks); his right-hand man Sergeant Hovarth (Tom Sizemore); sniper
Private Jackson (Barry Pepper); wise-guy Jew Mellish (Adam Goldberg)
and translater Corporal Upham (Jeremy Davies), a bookish sort who's
never been in battle...This ensemble is played by a gallery of seasoned natural actors. Tom
Hanks gives probably his most subtle performance as the besieged
Miller, capturing the dizzy tiredness of a man who's sick of fighting.
Sizemore is fine as Horvarth and Pepper, Goldberg and Davies are good
in their various roles, giving their stock characters a distinctiveness
and humanity. Matt Damon is given the pivotal role of Private Ryan, and
plays him in much the same way as he played Will Hunting: a petulant,
obnoxious moron who does not engender much sympathy.The story, especially with reference to recent world events, feels like
a US propaganda tool. Watching it, especially if you're uninformed of
history, you'd think the Americans were the only ones fighting the
Nazis. Other Allied Groups (the British, the French and the Russians)
are never seen or referred to any way.Where the film really succeeds is in its portrayal of wartime battle,
surely the most realistic depiction committed to film. The film is shot
in harsh realistic tones, with a lot of grey and brown. The grime,
blood and gore of combat is far from overlooked.The opening attack on Omaha Beach is excellent, and you can feel the
frantic, fearful adrenaline of the soldiers as they rush into the line
of fire and are randomly picked off one-by-one. The Germans who
surrender in eventual defeat are randomly shot dead. The concluding
battle to defend the bridge is even better as the characters we've come
to know over two hours are decimated or worse than that changed by
their ordeals. However it is not the guns and bomb battles that really
convey the wasteful nature of war. It is the hand-to-hand combat scene
Mellish has with a German soldier while Upham cowers on stairs. The
German gets the upper hand and slowly forces Mellish's knife into his
stomach, gently rocking him to sleep as he does so. This is what it
ultimately boils down to: the savage nature of fighting, and possessing
(or losing) the will to remain on your feet and stay alive. It is this
reality, encapsulated in that scene, that the film captures so very
well.It will not stand up as a historical document (few war movies do) but
in bringing the realities of wartime battle home to a mass audience,
"Saving Private Ryan" is a must-see.

******
26 January 2005
10
Before I begin my praise, let me just say that my grandfather served
during WW2 (82nd airborne), my father served during Vietnam and I
myself was in basic when the crap hit the fan in Iraq the first time
around. To be honest, when I first saw the trailer for this film I had
thought it was just some average Hollywood vehicle for Matt Damon and
did not bother to see it in the movies. boy was I wrong. Like the
Godfather, Goodfellas and JFK I can't help but watch this film each and
every time it comes on cable. I never get sick of it. Just the invasion
of Normandy Beach scene is worth the $3 rental charge. Bataan was good,
Patton excellent but this has to be the best WW2 picture to date.
Probably as close to realism as a movie can get - meaning when troops
get shot they just don't fall down ala "windtalkers" - heads are blown
off, body parts are everywhere and blood pours down like rain. It is
always good to see a film of this quality come around every once in
awhile to remind us not to forget those who have given their lives so
that we could live ours. Now I know why my parents always taught me to
respect my elders.....I also recommend "Band of Brothers" which was
inspired by this film and also brilliantly done.

******
20 January 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan has to be one of the best war movies ever made, but
it is definitely the most realistic. The opening battle is considered
to be the most realistic war scenes ever caught on film. The fear and
tension of the D-Day invasion is so frighteningly realistic in Saving
Private Ryan.Despite the graphic and gruelingly intense violence, most kids older
than 10 should see this to get an idea of what war veterans have had to
fight through. Steven Spielberg once again proves he is capable of
awesome directing skills through Saving Private Ryan.Unfortunately, I missed this when it was out in the theaters, but the
great cinematography and direction must have been awesome to experience
on the silver screen. I hope there will be a tenth anniversary showing
of this in theaters everywhere. Although the running time is a bit
long, Saving Private Ryan is well worth seeing, every shot and camera
angle is brilliance. See this movie on the biggest screen possible with
the best surround sound possible and you'll feel as though you're
actually there.

******
12 January 2005
5
OK, I can understand the story can grab your attention, but...C'mon!!! Do you really want me to believe that the life of that one kid
is worth a whole team of dead soldiers?!? And that the President of
America himself took care of it! What kind of useless rhetoric, in the
worst American B-movie tradition! That is NOT what I expect from a
Steven Spielberg's movie. And what about when, after all this
absurdity, they meet Pvt. Ryan (at last!), and he refuses to come back,
because of "bla bla bla..."?!? If I wore Tom Hanks' character, I would
have shot him at once!!! On the other hand, we must admit that the
famous opening scene of Normandy Attack is one of the best of the whole
movie history: scaring, rhythmic, impressive, realistic,... this is
Spielberg! So, as an overall, I would rate 10 for the opening scene,
but 0 for the rest (it would be 3, if it wasn't Spielberg: we can not
let him waste his talent like that), so, as an average, I just give 5.One last suggestion for everybody: rent the DVD, watch the opening
scene (maybe even twice, or more...), and then bring it back to the
shop.

******
26 December 2004
5
I could have made a lot of money from this movie. While watching it
with a friend I kept saying "he is going to die now" and guess
what...he did. Now if only I had made a bet of $10 each time that
happened I would have had made enough to cover my movie ticket, the
price of the popcorn and drink, plus I would have been able go out to a
café afterwards.The plot is interesting. A group of American soilders must cross the
scattered D-day lines to find a soldier whose brothers have all been
killed so he can be sent home because the President of the US of A
promised that he could.The them of this movie is obvious. People made sacrifices to keep the
world safe during world war II. Do we as a generation live up to those
sacrifices. My view is, nope, you bastards took Vietnam away from a
pro-American Ho Chi Min and gave it to the French (then Ho Chi Min got
angry and kicked your American butts as you deserve). You rounded up
the communists in Greece at the end of WWII and had them shot (so of
course they had a communist uprising later).This is a sad pathetic and obvious movie that tries to justify America
to Americans.The only thing that makes up for that is the honesty of the war scenes
and truth in the characters (other than Private Ryan who turns out to
by some sort of Uber American symbol so we can feel good about him
being saved).Watch it with friends so you can play the Saving Private Ryan drinking
game. It works like this, people call out the names of characters they
think are going to die. If they do die within 5 minutes everyone
drinks, if they don't the person who called out drinks.

******
12 December 2004
10
It's a buddy movie. I'd love to get on my soapbox and quote 'Henry V'
at you all day long, but the bottom line is, this movie is all about
buddies. I am not interested in molecularly accurate historical fact,
so I wasn't bombed out by some small insignificant detail. Instead, I
chose to feel how these men, these ordinary men, felt, and how they
treated each other. I griped a bit about the lack of back-stories about
some of the men (like Reiben or Jackson), but then I realized that they
were just like you and me. We all know the story of you and me, and the
story moves confidently because of that, without being bogged down by
too many flashbacks to an earlier life that would have hurt the pacing.The cinematography is really good because you get close-ups on their
faces a lot of the time, and other close-ups on important things like
hands and bleeding corpses and so on (unlike We Were Soldiers, which
suffered from too many wide shots). As a result, you get to see every
little crook in their expressions and every facial tic, so you feel for
them much more. Focusing on Tom Hanks' hands was one of the most
well-chosen shots ever, because it showed the vulnerability of the man
without too much exposition or violence.Additionally, let me say that all the actors put in their best
performances for this movie. While Matt Damon was a little stiff, the
rest were Oscar gold as they grimaced and swore through the movie, and
there was never the 'politically correct' feeling that crippled other
war movies. I'd like to highlight three awesome actors who deserve to
be paid in nothing but solid Academy gold. Medic Wade, played by
Giovanni 'Vonnie' Ribisi, Corporal Upham, played by Jeremy Davies, and
of course the lead actor himself, Tom Hanks in the role of John Miller.
All three delivered powerful (in Upham's case, powerfully pathetic)
performances, and the final scene, you truly get to see the
groundbreaking ability of Tom Hanks. Ribisi is notable because of one
particular conversation that, if handled by a lesser actor, would be
merely melodramatic.One minor quibble is the beginning and ending scenes, which were
completely out of step with the 'buddy buddy' feeling that permeated
this movie. While the resolution does tie up all the loose ends, it
just makes it so...flat. But it's a minor quibble nonetheless.The plot itself is paced well, the actors are brilliant, the script is
sharp and honest, the gore is substantiated and not overdone, so what's
stopping you from watching this movie?

******
25 October 2004
6
Apart from the first part, I was very disappointed by the rest. The
morale: don't let an enemy go, because he will return and kill you.
Strange hair-cut SS soldiers (more resembling US marines than German
Waffen SS soldiers) even speaking English !!! Germans storming a town
running around to be shot ! It just irritates me. All was more decently
done in "Band of Brothers". Only the action of the German flak-crew and
SP-gun was done well. Keep in mind that in reality the Waffen SS was a
frightening fighting force with unparalleled commanders but didn't
enter the battle in Cotentin so soon. Rob Veenenberg

******
8 September 2004
4
I didn't like this one. People seem to fall for Spielberg's direction,
which is very good with the exception of some big mistakes (see below).
But the story is so bad.MAJOR SPOILERS AHEAD!!!First of all: how can the old man at the beach remember things, he
never saw? I mean he did not participate in the landing, how on earth
he can remember it so vividly?Second: Question: In the end: the bridge is set with explosives, a tank
is hit by a bomb from a fighter plane and a man is on that bridge
directly in front of the tank. What happens to him? According to
Spielberg / Rodat: Nothing! The tank is destroyed, the bridge is not,
and there is not shrapnel at all - and the man is still in one piece!!
Come on, you people, you call THIS realistic?!Third: Monty-bashing is okay IMO (see MarketGarden), but how come that
Hanks, who is just a Captain, is more aware of the general situation
than higher ranking officers with all the information they are getting
from other troops, planes etc.? I am referring to the scene on the
beach, when Hanks is telling us about the importance of this
particulare bridge. Which turns out to be very small, nothing pioneers
could not build over night. It's not like crossing the Rhine! But Hanks
claims, that this bridge is not only vital for the success of D-Day,
but the entire war!! This is crap beyond imagination! Thank you Mr.
Rodat, you made us all believe that every soldier in every thick of a
fight can judge better than a General!Four: The change of Hanks. He is trying to come out alive, he even
tries to save his men's lifes. Wandering around in France he happens to
hit a lonely German outpost with a machine gun. Question: What is the
right decision? Correct! You run directly into the line of fire...
Well, he could have said: "Men, do you want to walk around it, could
be, say, a mile to avoid it...?!" Soldier: "No, my script says, I have
to die here, so let's run into it!" Hanks: "Ah, you are right! And
there will be also a German soldier who has to beg for his life, and I
have to have mercy on him, so he will be able to run and fight us again
later. Hmm, that shows pretty well the evilness of the Germans. Okay,
so let's run!"Five: The change of Hanks. So he has lost a man. Now he's going for it:
"Let's call this bridge !The Alamo!. This is were we will fall back
to." Soldier: "Hmm, I don't remember exactly: What happened to the
defenders of that place in Mexico, uh, Texas...?" Hanks: "Uh, any OTHER
questions...?"Six: The final battle. Well though the SS was being an elite troop at
the beginning of the war, it was watered down by 1944. But they were
fanatics and/or thugs/killers/low-lifes/scum - you get the idea! - from
about 16 countries at this time. There were even French, Norwegian,
Swedish, Ukrainian soldiers - you name it - in the German army at this
time. All in all we can consider them to be very dangerous. Maybe this
particulare troop had some veterans from the eastern front. This is an
armored infantry, bringing along tanks. And now enter Hanks an Co. They
decide to shoot it out and - guess by yourself what happens....Seven: The characters. Don't get me started on that...Dear Mr. Spielberg, you are great, but you have to have more patience
looking for good scripts. You did cinema history with the opening
sequence, but the rest just sucks - due to the script.Dear Mr. Rodat, maybe the original script was better than this mess,
maybe I am doing you wrong. But on the other hand, your next script was
"The patriot". The one with Gibson, not Seagal...well, you'll keep
trying, huh?!The movie was in the Top 10 (if I remember right), and now it's down on
58. But the users of IMDb comment on it enthusiastically. I guess the
the ones who did not like it, did not comment?Bad, bad writing, good directing, good Hanks 4/10 Macaulay J. Connor

******
4 April 2003
4

I was told by a Taiwanese friend I shouldn't watch SAVING PRIVATE RYAN,
because he thought it might offend me, because it was unfair towards
Germans. But after years I've decided to watch it after all, and I didn't
find it so unfair, though they completely failed to show the German side of
the story.Very brutal movie, very ugly scenes. One guy lost his arm in the war and
searched for it hoping they could help him with his arm again. Then he
walked around with his arm in his hand.Too much shooting, but what do I expect from a war movie? I've always
disliked movies about war. You should just watch them to be informed about
how stories are told or to make things more visual for
yourself.I must admit, I fast-forwarded this movie, because I don't need to watch
hours of shooting and bleeding. The message of the movie should be clear
after half an hour.

******
6 June 2002
10
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN (1999) **** Tom Hanks, Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore,
Matt Damon, Jeremy Davies, Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel,
Giovanni Ribisi, Ted Danson, Dennis Farina, Paul Giamatti, Harve
Parsnell, Bryan Cranston, David Wohl, Joerg Standler, Leland Orser,
Harrison Young. Steven Spielberg's epic scopic vision set in WWII
emerses you from its grueling opening 25 minutes of you-are-there
depiction of the battle of Omaha Beach, Normandy during D-Day
grippingly depicts hell on earth with all its graphic carnage that is
relentless in its harrowing approach only underscores the unfolding
plot of saving one man's life: a true metaphor never ringing hollow.
Hanks gives another patented beautiful performance as Capt. John
Miller, the dispatched leader of an Army Rangers squad to find Pvt.
James Ryan (Damon), the sole living son after his three active duty
siblings are killed during battle. Leading what would only be called a
Hollywood stereotypical troop of outspoken, griping Brooklynite Mick
(Burns); built-to-kill Italian grunt who's writing a letter home
(Diesel); gospel-spouting Southern sharpshooter (Pepper, a nice
stand-out to root for); the token walking-conscience Jew (Goldberg);
the medic with a heart of gold (Ribisi also excellent); and the
never-seen-combat interpreter/journalist (Davies, ditto). The script by
Robert Rodat, who incorporates the true life accounts of The Fighting
Sullivans, who all perished at war, makes compelling characters come to
life and one gets the sense of really pulling for these men on a
literal look for a 'needle in a stack of needles'. Like 'Schindler's
List' the film stands on its own; only this case instead of saving
hundreds of lives, the precious gift of one only permeates the
universal message: all life is precious, even if it seems fruitless for
8 men to sacrifice for it. Hanks clearly gives the film its soul with
an incredibly nuanced turn as a school teacher on the frontline clearly
feeling the end may be near given his ever exapanding right hand tic
and his only hope of seeing his beloved wife stateside again on a
mission as desperate as the bigger picture ('winning the war').
Spielberg outdoes himself by making arguably the most realistic and
least sensationalistic war film ever made and that's saying something
with the polemics of 'Platoon' and surreal imagery of 'Apocalypse Now'
still reverberating the echoes of The War Film. Brilliantly filmed by
Spielberg collaborator/cinematographer wunderkind Janusz Kaminksi, the
camera suitably goes terror-laden trenches with its documentarian air
about it and slightly grainy, yet gorgeous photography. The violence
may be the hardest element to stomach but in light of its subject
matter it certainly is not inappropriate; one will never actually feel
what living in a war is like unless having fought one. Spielberg and
company should be proud for its authenticity. Also of note: Dale Dye, a
longtime military film adviser/actor (he has a cameo during the planned
rescue debriefing), prepped the actors with rigorous boot camp training
that clearly pays off. Arguably one of the best films ever made and
ultimately cheated of Best Picture (losing out to - oh PLEASE! -
'Shakespeare in Love') but scored 5 Academy Awards including the
deserved Best Director for Spielberg, Kaminski for Best Cinematography,
Editing, Sound Effects and Sound Effects Editing.

******
9 March 2002
2

The thrill of SPR was not in the story line, but in the gore.  It made news
not because of what it said, but because of its first 15 minutes.  Why????
Great cast, wasted on this horror show drafted out of a Biology 101 class.
I am a Viet Nam (USAF) vet, and no priss, but I had to leave this.  It was
totally unnecessary to get the point across.

******
3 October 2001
3

I give to this movie a "6" because I think it's a well done movie, there's
a
really good making up of a lot of very thrilling and sometimes dramatic
scenes, there's a lot of action, suspence, deaths, explosions, and all. On
the contrary, the plot is quite anonymous, there's not a great
psychological
introspection of most characters, too much patriotism made-in-USA. I think
the author tries to cover the structural weakness of the plot with many
"hard" scenes, you know what I mean. Compared to another "war-movie",
produced more or less in the same period (I think the name, in english,
should be "the sharp red line") but with considerably less money, this
movie, in one word, can be distinguished for its mediocrity, typical of
most
great Hollywood's productions. 

******
11 September 2001
6

Not concerning on art dignities of the  film, it would be desirable to talk
about its plot.  Oriented on "Oscar" award the film was made occupied
territory, with one native family (others is necessary to think have left
into America) + great self-sacrifice and tragical ending.As the citizen of the state, what lost in war more then  20 millions of
peoples, I to saw an eyeful of films about war and heroism in childhood.
Given "sorrowful fairy tale" is intended for consumption extremely inside
countries, on which territory be not ordered military actions. Tom Hanks
tries from all forces to build of itself the experienced killer (that
previously was a teacher), however in his eyes we see  the reflection of a
movie crew, camera and dollars.
In general, probably Spielberg  has remained large stage set after "Jurassic
Park" , and he has decided to use it into massacre  scene in the first 15
minutes.  
A plot with the artful fascist by fast run made a circle around of heroic
group and join to german army ON ANOTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE (probably he
knew shorter way and having crossed the river, has changed clothes, has
shaved and again pitch in fight for Furer!!!) it is simple
matchless.Simply remains bitterness for good director sunk in own
pathos.

******
22 June 2001
4

Sure, those first 20 minutes make Hollywood history. Absolutely harrowing,
heart-rending stuff. But after that, Saving Private Ryan just slumps into
old-fashioned Dirty Dozen-like stuff. Just another Hollywood war pic,
yawwwnnnnn. 
Every ten minutes or so a member of brave Tom Hanks' little setup gets
killed, but I found myself absolutely not caring about these characters. The
reason being that there had been no character portrayal at all... and when
you don't feel you KNOW a movie character, you cannot empathize with him
either. Just more cannon fodder, that's all. 
The ending of the movie is even more grossly sentimental than the one in
Schindler's List. Simply awful. I strongly urge everyone to LEAVE the cinema
of switch off the video before that! 
If this movie was all about showing the futility of war, and the terrible
waste of human life, it is inferior by far to Apocalypse Now or Das
Boot.
Yes, sure, we Europeans are grateful to the immense sacrifices that
Americans, Canadians and others brought for our freedom. But does that mean
we have to sit through these awful movies, as some sort of
penance?

******
17 May 2001
4

With all the hype and glitz surrounding this movie, after viewing it, there
were so many technical errors that I wonder how the director could allow his
produce to be shown! The first 15 minutes were awesome, but, again, the
technicals errors were too numerous to attempt to overlook.The ending was scripted just as Hollywood would have you
believe.Matt Damon description of his brothers with the story of a girl made it
sound like they were Guns n' Roses ! 

******
12 April 2001
3

"Saving Private Ryan" is probably the war movie that received too much
hype
in the media to be still seen without prejudices. From my perspective,
however, it was neither a good movie nor a particularly intelligent new
look
on WWII, but part of my resentment against the film results from my
different cultural background, in which such an open nationalistic
display
of national images (the American flag waving full-screen for opening and
closing) is found disturbing.It's surprising that so many people think that this film sheds a new
surprising light on D-Day or WWII. If someone needed the bloody and gory
opening sequence about D-Day to realize that war is hell, then this
person
has never thought about war in the first place. Of course war is a
horrible
experience, but it's amazing how many people needed Mr. Spielberg to tell
them. And Spielberg does not solely concentrate on the horrors of war.
Like
so many other American war films, be it WWII or Vietnam, the heroic
suffering is always endured by the brave innocent American side. The fact
that the opposing side might also not have enjoyed the fighting is always
overlooked.The much praised historical accuracy, for me, does not rate this movie
above
others--if I want to know facts about WWII, I'll look them up in a
history
book, and not buy a movie ticket.What additionally annoyed me was the bad directing. The lame attempt at a
bit of comic relief with the wrong Private James Ryan was totally out of
place in a serious war film. Tom Hanks got another chance to play the
perfect American mainstream man, and Spielberg did not bother to properly
develop his character into a three-dimensional person with highs and
lows.
Further, the overly patriotic ending destroyed all attempts to make it an
anti-war movie.Despite of all the glorifying reviews in the newspapers and magazines,
it's
just another war movie, nothing new or different from anything already
seen.


******
8 March 2001
3

OK, I sat down to watch this movie and I was quite pleased with that battle
scene. I mean, great special effects, original camera work, lots of gore...
BUT THAT'S IT! After that, the movie got soooo boring, not to mention cheesy
(typical of the "director"). Mr Speilberg, if that is your real name, please
give us another 'goonies' and do what you did the first time and DON'T
direct it! SO SO SO BORING! All this movie needed was to be shot in black
and white. Hang on a minute...

******
5 March 2001
3

This is a shockingly simplistic movie told in a complicated andtechnically superb way.  I've waited a long time to write a comment,to see if I changed my mind, but my opinion has gotten even lower,not better.It seems as if some writers, and certainly Spielberg, have adoptedthe dumbing-down motif of modern America.  This film is blatantlymanipulative.  I feel almost dirty for having seen it and knowing ofits success.  The brilliance of its technical depictions of combatcan't erase the tawdriness of so many of its plot elements.With sincere apologies to the many fine actors who enriched thisfilm with great performances, I still say, in a word, yuck.

******
6 February 2001
4

This movie is typical Spielbergian crap.  It is even replete with the
token
death of a main character.  Once again special effects are more prominent
than plot.  All in all, I would rather be clubbed with a sack full of
rotten
potatoes than see this industry job again.

******
13 January 2001
2
okay, I might not be the right person to speak in this question since I
hate
war films and heroic tales about brave men. yet, i just have to comment on
this film after noticing it on the 250-top list.
i watched this very long and very loud film with six of my friends and i
can
say that no one liked it and no one ever found the energy to sit upright
while we saw it. it was surprisingly boring and so very uninteresting that
i
wanted to cry. i mean, what? where's the action?
this is a film that should have had some of it, right?
and honestly, isn't the whole story incredibly unrealistic? not the war
scenes, but the fact that all these men are risking their lives just to
save
one soldier! that would never ever happen!so, i'm not going to recommend this to anyone and i surely wont see it
again
ever! 

******
29 November 2000
4

Yet another movie from Hollywood drenched in
self-regarding sentimentality. The Americans are
wonderful, the Germans cowardly or brutal. Imagine seeing
this if you were German?
In fact, the Germans were excellent soldiers, and the
Americans had a reputation for incompetence.
Other nations are absent, as only America won the war.
A movie crippled by its own ideological premises.

******
15 November 2000
4

Prior to seeing this film, I had heard only positive feedback.  I went into
it expecting great things.  And I guess, yes, it was a good film.  The
action sequences are awesome--very realistic.  The fighting scenes are
incredibly moving and (as far as I can tell, I wasn't there) authentic.
But, geez, what was with the beginning and the end?  It would have been a
great film without those shmaltzy sequences.  Do we really need the director
to SHOW us just how much of an impact Captain John had on Private Ryan?
Can't anything be left to the imagination?This film reminds me of Forrest Gump in its (blatant) manipulation of the
viewing public.  My plea to directors is let us watch and judge the merits
of the characters, don't tell us he's everyman, so then we will melt, cry
and react emotionally!  We are smarter than you think.  Really!  We will get
it without the affectations and overt pulls at the heartstrings.  What ever
happened to subtlety in film?  I am sorry for those of you who think this is
the best film you've ever seen.  Watch a few more movies before you make
such comments.  Or maybe, just learn to watch what you do watch more
critically.  Don't let yourselves be manipulated.

******
13 November 1999
3

I must admit, the first twenty minutes, (discounting the first scene in the
cemetary), were mindblowing.  The handheld visuals gave a sense of realism,
and was true, honest filmaking.
Spielberg should have stopped there.
After the Normandy scene, we are introduced to the characters that will
guide the audience on its long trip to nowhere.  I hesitate to call them
characters, as they are cardboard cutouts designed to fool the audience
into
believing there was any depth to them.  They didn't fool me.  They are a
bunch of stereotypes, thrown together in a group, and sent on a
quest.
Unfortunately, Robert Rodat lacked the storytelling skills to make the film
anything more than a failure with astounding visuals.It seemed as though he threw random scenes together and decided to call it
a
script.
I've heard this film be referred to, interestingly enough, as both a
pro-war
film, and an anti-war film.  The reason there is such confusion, is because
neither Robert Rodat, nor Steven Spielberg could make up their minds.  The
first twenty minutes seem to say one thing, where as the last twenty say
another.  In between, everything is just drivel.
Because of the conflict in ideas, (and for numerous other reasons), the
film
lacked focus.  It had no sense of itself, and was not well-realized at all.
It was put in all directions and no directions at once>Saving Private Ryan, apart from being a failure, was also an insult to my
intelligence.  It was so sugar-coated, it made me sick.  A movie like this
should go down hard, and leave a bitter taste in your mouth afterwards.
However, Spielberg, for some reason, felt the need to apologize for the
film's graphic depictments of battle with an ending that tried to hard to
explain itself.  Spielberg may as well have run up in front of the screen
at
the end of the movie, and said, "In case you didn't understand the other
two-and-a-half hours of this film, allow to me to explain what just
happened..."

******
11 November 1999
3

I must say that this movie is highly overrated by the critics. The story
is
as same as for example: D-day and various other USA patriotic movies. Okay
the movie is realistic and strong but what about the story, shouldn´t it
be
better. I can say that I´m not moved a bit, sorry, next.

******
1 October 1999
4

The first half hour of this movie blew me away.  I couldn't comprehend
how
a movie could put so much realism.It wasn't until the conflict of "Saving Private Ryan" that I became a
little disappointed; because at this point, we move out of Europe to a
little town called Tinstletown.The problem I have with this movie is that people accept this movie as a
documentation.  Is this a true war story?  I think its more of a true
patriotic idealistic propaganda.  So here's the lay out: hundred and
thousands of men go to war to "save their country;" this part is good.  Yet
out of a midst of war, would the government really save a soldier for the
spite of the mother?  3 of her sons die; but it's supposed to be ok because
they "laid their lives down for their country (at least this is supposed to
be the theme of the movie)."  So what's wrong with the forth son; he's
doing
the same.  It contradicts the theme.  Secondly, what about every other
soldier; they all have mothers, families, & pregnant wives, too.  It just
doesn't happen that way.  Thirdly, one woman wouldn't recognize that 3
brothers died out of thousands of deaths she's writing up; and she wouldn't
ask a man to save the 4th son with him executing it.  "Ryan" welcome to
Hollywood.The movie as a movie is good.  It is excellent.  But its nothing more or
nothing truer than what actually did happen to these soldiers in war.  I've
noticed many people I've discussed this movie to, take this movie so
literally that it makes me agitated.  Sometimes the only way we like to
deal
with war is to believe some of the things we see; that it was good to save
Ryan by killing the enemy, that war means so much patriotism.  But this is
just one aspect; it isn't the embodiment of war.  There are too many other
things that war has to tell.  (Oliver Stone made a trilogy based on 3
different sides/aspects about war).I know some men who fought in war.  They watched the movie shocked by the
first half hour, they were literally sweating.  The next moment they were
thinking and remembering their time in war.  They all thought the storyline
was a bit dreamy.  And the response I got was this: "I don't recall anyone
who was like Tom Hanks.  We were all Matt Damon's, who didn't know between
right from wrong."I mean at the end of the movie when old Private Ryan goes "was it worth
it?"
The camera starts showing his loving wife, his children and grand children
(by the way . . . what was up with the big chested triplets?) and of course
the audience is going to be all teary eyed "yes it was worth it."  Come on
10 other individuals could have been alive if it weren't for him, but I
forgot, we need patriotism in these movies.
I'd suggest anyone to read books on war, by people who've been there, like
Tim O'Brien, because those books actually make you think.As a Hollywood movie, I give this movie 9/10;
But as a true war movie, I give this 6/10;
the first half hour "10/10"


******
26 September 1999
3

Sorry, but I don't like being manipulated and constantly being told what
to
feel, and Spielberg ALWAYS does this in his "serious" films.  He should
stick to light-hearted adventure stories, at which he is very
good.The opening and closing cemetery scenes were heavy-handed.  The subject
matter doesn't need flag-waving, Steven, we get the point without you
rubbing our faces in it.The opening battle scene is very well done, except it's voyeuristic and
even
pornographic.  I saw the reaction of the kids in the front row and they
were
getting off on the blood and gore, just like in a video game.  I think
Malick's filming of the battle scenes in The Thin Red Line was much more
effective -- it puts you in the midst of the grass, fire, smoke,
concussive
explosions and total chaos and is quite unnerving.  Should've gotten the
Best Cinematography Oscar.I cringed at Hanks' line "Earn this".  Again, Spielberg seems to think we
can't get such insights on our own without them being crammed down our
throats.  It's insulting.  To have Hanks speak that line implies an insult
to Damon's character, too.The line,"Tell me I was a good man" is just awful script-writing.
Groan.Let's see, how can I put this without giving away the plot and therefore
having this review banned?  Okay, I thought it was really sophomoric to
have
the German POW that "X" (a main American character who shall remain
unnamed)
turned loose be the one to kill "X" in the end -- the odds against such a
turn of events actually happening were quite overwhelming.  To put that in
the script was an "in your face" attempt at irony, right out of a bad film
school project.I was mostly disappointed with what could have been a fine film if the
director had not done what he always does -- practice overkill and leave
nothing to the imagination, underestimating his audience, and
propagandizing.I also think it's offensive to make a "Good Yanks, Bad Krauts" film.  My
uncles who fought against the German army knew better.  This war, contrary
to those who want to rewrite history to make it pretty, was about
property,
not saving the Jews nor stopping fascism (except when fascism threatened
other people's property).  Nazism was tolerated and even approved of in
Britain, France and the U. S. before Hitler invaded France, and Britain
and
the U. S. turned away Jewish refugees from Hitlerism even after the start
of
the war.  The Americans didn't enter the war to stop Hitler, they made
huge
profits from it till 1941, and only entered it when the Japanese made it
impossible for them to stay out of it.  This film's ideology pretends
otherwise.Malick's film is much more accurate and, therefore, much less popular.
Based faithfully on the novel by James Jones (who fought in Guadalcanal),
it
doesn't use war as a way to make people feel good, it tells the truth
about
war and those who fight in it, not disparagingly but realistically.  I
care
about its characters, because they are believable, not caricatures like
those in Private Ryan.  The Thin Red Line is all the more uplifting
because
of its realism, and more enduring.For those, by the way, who keep writing that we who prefer The Thin Red
Line
are "pseudo-intellectual", I think they really mean that they themselves
are
anti-intellectual, a popular stance in the U. S. these
days.From a friend in Canada, where unlike most of you in the States, we take
ourselves and our mythologies with a healthy grain of salt.

******
24 August 1999
3

The only thing worth watching here is the first 45 minutes or so.  After
that it gets boring and unoriginal.  As with Schindler's List, we don't
need
Spielberg to tell us about what happened in WWII.  We all know already.
And
as for it making war seem realistic, I don't think Spielberg deserves any
extra attention because of it.  It should be every film makers job to make
their movie as realistic as possible.

******
23 July 1999
2

This movie is such typical Hollywood crap-ola, and Tom Hanks and Matt
Damon
are unbearable. The opening sequence is excellent, giving the viewer a
real
sense of what WWII and Normandy/D-Day must have been like, Tom Sizemore is
also outstanding, and of course the cinematography is beautiful...but this
movie really cheapens the concept of war and heroism IMO.Having personally walked the beaches of Normandy, and having a father whom
is a WWII veteran, I can say that this film is a glorified and poorly told
"fiction" of what these boys really experienced. Thin Red Line is far more
watchable (despite Nick Nolte's presence) for a WWII pictorial.
Don't bother with this one.   

******
6 July 1999
4

Spielberg's WW2 epic has often been hailed as the greatest war movie ever
made, but unfortunately an awful script hampered the brilliant
performances,
superb direction and the most realistic battle scenes ever filmed. A
scripted was riddled with clichés and American jingoism from the start
that
completely marred the film and did not move me at all. It was also the
most
blatant attempt at Oscar begging in the history of cinema, so much so that
it would have been far subtler for the entire cast and crew to spend the
entire running time on their knees and plead with the Academy to give them
the awards! Hank's "I don't know anything about Ryan speech" had Best
Actor
Nomination Clip written all over it. Damon's "I'm trying to picture my
brothers" talk was his bid to make up for last year's disappointment for
"Good Will Hunting". The jerky photography, which was little, more than a
strain on the eyes, wrapped up Best Cinematography Oscar. The fact that
the
film lost out on the big night to "Shakespeare in Love" (itself
ludicrously
over awarded) gave Speilberg his comeuppance. The characters to were
stereotyped and cardboard and spoke utterly contrived dialogue. There's
ALWAYS a religious one, Jew, an Italian, and a New Yorker, a tough
sergeant
and a rookie. Even Hanks (who really should think of going back to comedy
films) played himself as the nice paternal figure. The film also gave out
the message that the Americans won the war. There was not a single other
allied soldier in the film. Not a problem on its own as Omaha was an all
American landing spot, but what was unforgivable was that General
Montgomery
was slammed as "overrated". That was totally uncalled for and completely
out
of place in the situation. SPR was merely Speilberg exercising his
greatest
flaw that of recycling the same concept over and over again. SPR was in
the
same vain as "Amistad" and "Schlindler's List": that of showing the world
the pain and suffering that a particular group of people went through and
getting acclaim for it. The concept is wearing rather thin now
Steven.

******
4 June 1999
3
I was one of the millions of people who went to watch "the best war
film all over the times". And as I was expected, I disappointed once more
from Steven.Ok, he is one of the best directors are still alive, and "Ryan" a
great
movie for people who like this kind of films, but I were hurt from my
Steven.I loved him, he were making my dreams true, my older brother, grew me
up and made me to believe in dreams and try to make them
true.I am sorry; I liked ET more than all Steven's film, I also like
Indiana
Jones, and all film he were shooting till  '90. With a couple of films
after
it ( Schindler's list  and Jurrasic Park , mostly with the first one) took
back what he had gave me.He make me trust to him my heart, and then asked: Now I want my money
(and my prizes) back !!! And he forced me to give him a couple of Oscars
and
some billions of dollars.Ok Steven I paid, I had thought after Jurrasic Park. But Steven
answered with the "Lost World" and "Saving Private Ryan", and moreover
starting to sell me. Yes, I feel like being sold, watching the soldiers,
in
the middle of the night with a full moon in the sky, with such silence
around them !!!Before twenty years, in front of the same full moon, a young boy were
flying with his bicycle through to his dreams, but now.What a pity Steven, when I grow up I saw that my older brother were
someone like all the others.And the only thing I am asking from you Mr. Spielberg is TO GIVE MY
DREAMS BACK !!!

******
24 May 1999
4

Would someone explain to me why there must be strings welling in the
background when any two people engage in conversation? Wait, don't tell
me,
John Williams might be hiding in the bushes with a violin. Are we expected
to believe that the government cares about one soldier? When did the
government ever have a heart? Despite all of the forced dialogue
Spielberg's
direction is pretty impressive. 

******
28 February 1999
2

That so many retaliatory comments have flown along the lines of 'What's
wrong with being patriotic?' and 'kiss my red and white striped ...' it
seems perhaps the whole point of war films has been missed.Truly great war films transcend such heroic, staunch patriotism to deliver
the message that war sucks.  This film has been praised for its true
portrayal of war, yet from veterans I've had contact with, their sentiments
were that war was a nightmare for everyone - that they were all just
men/boys in hell - despite whom they had sworn any allegiance to.And so many young people I've spoken to left this film with the thoughts
'thank god we were fighting alongside America' and that Germans were
demonized.  At the same time people are claiming that this film should be
shown to all school children.  Yet what message does the film send exactly?
True - the first half hour is a brilliantly harrowing piece of cinema, which
managed to brutally show the ugliness of war better than any film
beforehand.  Yet I feel a great war film should ignore patriotism and
concentrate on how war debases humans of ALL nationalities, and indeed that
war transcends these other superficial divisions.A good film?  Yes.
The greatest war film?  Not on my top 5 - I'm inclined to lean towards Das
Boot - true-to-history graphic brutality isn't everything.


******
27 February 1999
4

This is a typical Spielberg movie.  The basis is formed by a layer of
american chauvinism, on which lies cheap, californian intellectualism, and
the top is formed by multi-million dollars of special effects.  The movie is
pretentious and hollow, and commercial in the way that it pushes a couple of
the buttons of turn-of-the-century american obsessions: family values, fear
of the chaos of life and violence.  It's quite understanding therefore that
so many americans regard it as a good movie, as it strengthens emotions
already there, instead of disrupting the mind, as any art should (in my
opinion).
As a war movie, it's mediocre.  The agony of war is captured much better in
films like Full Metal Jacket, Stalingrad and Das Boot.
The sad thing is that it is the nationalism that is promoted in this movie
(the whole movie is framed by a waving flag) that is so often the cause of
wars.


******
7 February 1999
5

In lots of movies and documentaries war is being depicted as something
glorious, as a time and a place where (mostly good-looking) young men can
prove how brave they are.
SPR would be different, so I expected. In this movie Spielberg really would
show his audience that war is horrific, not heroic.The first half hour of the movie really was shattering. People who still
believe war is an exciting event for young would-be heroes (think: Tom Cruise
in Top Gun) should be obligated to watch the Omaha Beach landing-scenes.
Because it really makes you experience that war is hell, a sickening,
horrible hell.Of course you can't fill a three hour movie solely with scenes like that of
the Omaha Beach landing. To make a good movie, you need more, like good
actors, a capable crew, convincing special effects and, the most important,
an interesting story.
Well, no one will dispute the fact that SPR technically is a masterpiece.
The camerawork, the special effects, the sound, they are all overwhelmingly
good.In spite of all these plusses, I really was disappointed by at least two
hours of SPR. Because it missed the most important thing a movie needs: an
interesting story!
The characters weren't convincing. I don't blame the actors for that, they
all did a good job. It was the script that I blame, I never forgot I was
watching a movie with made-up characters. When a movie is really good, I
tend to get so absorbed by the characters that they become real to me, that
I start to symphatize deeply with them.
This never happened while I was watching SPR. I never felt anything more for
Captain Miller and his men then I felt for all the other, anonymous soldiers
you see in this movie. And the story, the search for Private Ryan, even
bored me sometimes. There were just a few scenes, like the one in which the
men were reading the name-tags of the fallen soldiers, that were really
compelling.Three things about SPR I really disliked. First there is the way the German
soldier known as "Steamboat Willie" was portrayed. Why is the only German we
got to know a little bit such an awkward, silly guy? I'm pretty sure lots of
German soldiers were ordinary men who didn't want this war any more then
anyone else did. They must have been just as afraid as the American
soldiers, they must have felt the same pain and horror. But that's not the
way if feels like in SPR. The overall feeling you get is "Americans are
good" and "Germans are bad".
Second, there is the fight for the bridge. This kind of stuff, the brave
heroes who, against all odds, succeed in defeating the enemy, well, this has
been done so many times before. This kind of cliche was exactly what I
expected SPR to avoid.
Third, there is the 'point of view'. You are made to believe that the Omaha
Beach-scenes are seen as the memories of the old man on the graveyard. Then,
in the last scene, you learn that this man never set foot on Omaha Beach. I
felt manipulated in a negative way!It was very hard for me to grade SPR. Technically, it's an absolute 10. The
Omaha Beach-scene was extremely good, and I think it's a real homage to the
veterans who were there. But there were too many things I did not like. I
decided to give this movie a 7 out of 10.


******
4 February 1999
4

I think it is absurd that this movie receives such high praise. I admit that
the 20 min scene of the battle at Omaha Beach is a technical tour de force,
however the rest of the movie suffers from mushy appeals to our sense of
national pride and does not effectively construct thorough character
studies.  I believe it pales in comparison to The Thin Red Line, a movie
which I believe has not received its due respect.  I think it is unfortunate
for Malick that the timing of this movie forces such absurd comparison to
Saving Private Ryan.

******
22 January 1999
2

A number of reviewers and people I have spoken to have described this film
as the greatest war film ever.  It is far from this.  Whilst I will concede
that this film contains some of the most brutal and compelling war scenes I
have witnessed in any film it is underpinned by a weak storyline and
laughable script.Spielberg's camera direction is stunning and once again proves that he is a
master of white-knuckle, tense action sequences but as is all too often the
case with his flawed genius he feels the need to drown us in corny,
unbelievable sentiment.The sheer, graphic horror of warfare is captured with thrilling camera work
and editing and seemed to send many stomachs churning amongst fellow cinema
goers.  However inbetween the brutal and gory warfare we were expected to
swallow sentiment of a level that upset my stomach far more.The scene where Hanks 'opens up' to the troops had me retching
uncontrollably.Worse still was the nationalistic theme of the film.  Spielberg had his
"Isn't the USA great" hat on and he was wearing it proud.In summary this film though touched by genius was too long, too
sickly-sentimental, too USA glorifying and on the whole too poorly written
to ever be a film worthy of the superlatives that so many have bestowed upon
it.Worth a look though.

******
15 January 1999
4

January 15, 1999 - Stephen Spielberg's SAVING PRIVATE RYAN seems the stuff
of greatness:  it elevates cinematic realism to new heights, is a catalyst
for passionate discourse on World War II, emboldens new respect for our
veterans, and gives Spielberg an early lock on all things Oscar.
Conversely, Terrance Malick's THE THIN RED LINE garners equal parts praise,
equal parts derision, and is called the product of an expatriate
flower-child who's clearly lost his mind.  Four days after seeing Malick's
film, I am haunted, not by horrible images of war, but something far deeper
and beguiling.  Seeking truth, I see "Ryan" again, feeling diplomatic and
ready to accept each film as two sides of the same coin  - SAVING PRIVATE
RYAN is the Id, flesh, machination, mission, answer and nostalgic history,
to THE THIN RED LINE's conscience, spirit, garden, journey, question, and
utopian vision.Right out the gate, Spielberg is onto something big when he stages the
battle of Omaha Beach.  Consider that he arrives on location with only five
pages of script for the entire invasion of Normandy, then gets busy in his
sandbox, re-shooting and fine-tuning the gore until an immaculate vision of
carnage is rendered - mostly thanks to Janusz Kaminski stripped lenses and
newsreel cinematography.  Reading the U.S. Army's technocratic account of
D-Day, one is spirited to
learn there is a real-life rifle company that lands at Dog Green amidst
slaughter and confusion, blows a gap in a mine-field, fights its way to the
top of a bluff, and cleans out a machine-gun nest.  This incursion actually
takes several grueling hours, not twenty minutes - that this should be
surprising is testament to the power of  Spielberg's false realism.That Spielberg didn't just tell the whole story of D-Day is a bit of a
shame.  I suppose he didn't want to remake THE LONGEST DAY (1962), with its
ham-and-cheese heroics.  I kind of wish he had.  Instead, he opts for
something more sentimental and personal in scope, but sadly, his vision
suffers for it.  The very moment Tom Hanks' "Captain Miller" looks back at a
beach littered with corpses (body parts curiously absent) the film loses
its well-crafted, objectivity. That the eviscerating horrors of the battle
still weigh on the mind is no excuse for the parade of stock characters,
inappropriate comic relief, and desperate pastiche that follow.SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is no rip-off of THE THIN RED LINE, more so, an
inversion. "Red Line's" single, gripping battle scene is bordered by
metaphysical yearning, while "Ryan" bookends its uneasy spirituality with
two scenes of sensational combat. "Red Line" features the hypnotic and
ferocious presence of a green jungle, where "Ryan's" palate is leached of
all color, save mud, gun-metal and brick. "Red Line" poses unanswerable
queries into the nature of human existence, while "Ryan" asks the rhetorical
question, "am I a good man?"All attempts at anticipating Malick's opus would be denied, for up to the
second of his film's release, he still worked on it.  Here is a man who will
never play by Hollywood's rules.  Consider that Malick spends twenty years
in hiding, is begged out of retirement by a pair of iconoclastic producers
(Robert Michael Geisler and John Roberdeau), spends many more years adapting
James Jones' novel in secrecy, fires his producers, arrives on location in
the wildernesses of Australia and the Solomon Islands with a small army,
ditches his script, shoots 1,000,000 feet of 70mm film over a six-month
period - most exclusively in evening and early morning light - cuts the film
at eight hours, and lastly, writes a haunting, poetic narration to bind the
final, three-hour cut.Those not hypnotized by Malick's vision are finding this film infuriating,
though.  A common complaint is that the film lacks a central hero to rally
behind; but such is the film's belief that there exists a collective
unconscious shared by all, and all men are somehow the same.  The physical
similarities between Privates "Witt" (Jim Cazeviel) and "Bell" (Ben Chaplin)
emphasize this point.  Both men carry with them memories of a great love, be
it sensual wife, or primal paradise; both pass through war never to return
to this love.  In SAVING PRIVATE RYAN you hear about a soldier's mental
island, where one must go in battle to remain sane; but in THE THIN RED
LINE, you experience this, and you mourn its passing.In the end, THE THIN RED LINE is about World War II as much as SAVING
PRIVATE RYAN.  SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is about Death, the dark, senseless way
one is mutilated through war.  THE THIN RED LINE is about Life, light, and
its fragile presence in all living things.In conclusion, I must address which film and which director will carry home
more Oscars?  The Academy faced a similar conundrum in 1978 when considering
COMING HOME vs. THE DEER HUNTER for Best Picture. (This was the same year
Malick made Days of Heaven, then disappeared). The war in Vietnam, long a
taboo subject, was then recognized in mainstream cinema but, who had the
supreme vision, Hal Ashby or Michael Cimino?  The question is superfluous
for neither film is about the war so much as the disintegration of the
American psyche.  Ultimately, The Academy chose THE DEER HUNTER with its
deeply layered character studies over the cloying, P.C. sentimentality of
COMING HOME.  I am hoping that today's voters are of a similar sensibility.
Therefore, I most humbly suggest to the esteemed members of The Academy of
Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, for your consideration, for Best Picture
THE THIN RED LINE - not because it is the better representation of war,
because it is the greater realization of life.*****


******
10 January 1999
5

Smug liberal Spielberg toggles back and forth between documentary style
violence and sentimental reflections between soldiers: the Captain is
revealed to be an English Lit teacher in civilian life who can instruct the
novice writer character and others with idealised rhetoric about both the
unique contribution each can make to the mission as well as their ability to
choose at will a vision/memory of "the good life" back home worth fighting
for: this emphasis upon individual freedom detracts from shared debate among
the men about both the worthiness of the mission to save one guy, and the
larger reasons for American involvement in the war. This deflates any anti-
war sentiment in the film. Significantly, Ryan is the sole survivor who
must, alone in the cemetery (predictably, his accompanying family are as
silent as his fallen comrades), decide/hope he was "a good man" worthy of
their sacrifice. In this emotional lynchpin of the movie, Spielberg
suggestively cuts to Old Glory flapping in the wind: the link drawn between
liberal pluralism/individual choice and the symbol of America remains an
insidious and powerful ideological moment, equalled only by the title
character in "Schindler's List" who had the power to choose who would live
or die. Consistently in his historical revisionist pieces, Spielberg
suggests this is the only kind of freedom worth fighting for, with no
awareness of how it merely compounds the tragedy.

******
3 January 1999
2

I can't believe that this movie is number 5 in the all time list, as voted
by nearly 7000 people in this register.You are all mad!  This movie will basically be forgotten in 6 months time.
Sure, if you think that a detached arm, quivering on the D-day beaches is
great cinema, then I suppose you may like think this movie good.  Otherwise,
think about it...
What is the story?  Not much of one
Realistic? I suppose, but nothing that Full Metal Jacket, Apocalypse Now and
a host of others don't have... this is just another one of those attempted
"ground-breakers" which will be copied by everyone.  Believe me, shortly
people will be saying "Saving Private Who?".  If you want to have quivering
body parts and open wounds, watch any of a host of horror movies from about
the 1950's on.
Tom Hanks for an Oscar?  You have to be kidding.  Forrest Gump was a better
role.  The man has next to no personality in this role, and his portrayal
doesn't help.

******
10 December 1998
3

This movie is a disappointment in comparison to Steven Spielberg's previous
films. It just did not have the magic of movies like Shawshank Redemption or
Schindler's List. I think people are just so used to commending him that
they are unable to realize that this isn't as stirring as some of his other
great accomplishments. People need to start thinking for themselves, instead
of letting others think for them.

******
4 December 1998
6

Despite all the hype, this is one of the most thinly plotted movies ever
made.  Yes...like everyone else on the planet, I agree that the battle
scenes were/are extremely well done, and truly bring home the horror of war.
But, that's all there is to this movie. This movie does not deserve acclaim
as a great movie simply because without the battle scenes, this movie would
not even be average in terms of what we are used to seeing.  Ask yourself,
other than the battle scenes, is there one scene in this movie worthy of
acclaim?  You know the answer

******
3 December 1998
4

Aside from an utterly brilliant opening sequence (the landing on Omaha
beach), this movie is basically old wine in a new bottle.Spielberg flirts with the idea of realism (yes, kiddies, war isn't fun after
all) and the pointlessness of war, but at the end, we've got the same old
"small number of outgunned Americans save the day with ridiculously obvious
tactics" theme. Haven't these Germans heard of scouts?Also irritating is the fact that Spielberg sets us up for the mission to
"Save Private Ryan" to be a ambiguous, even pointless
affair, risking the lives of several men to save one, then suddenly loses
the courage of his convictions: all of a sudden, we're fighting Germans in a
strategically important battle. How convenient. "Just a dash of Catch-22, if
you please..."Speaking as an Australian, I suspect that this film might come as more of a
revelation to me if I too had been raised to think of war in terms of John
Wayne and Rambo and the rest. Newsflash for the clueless: War wasn't fun
even before Vietnam...


******
25 November 1998
6

When I read the first ten comments I was shocked how easily the audience
accepts everything it gets served by names like Spielberg. The only positive
exception I saw is Mark Welch.When I saw the first 40 minutes I was really surprised how realistic
Spielberg's pictures and the plot were. After they took the beach he
produced just another one of those average "let 10 Americans beat the German
army" movies.Why did it have to be a set-up like that: It was not just 200 infantrists +
10 tanks vs 20 GI's (of course none was black!), but the WaffenSS, the
German elite troops, which had quite some fighting experience from Russia.
It was the same plot than hundreds before. Let the idiots take the main
road, we attack from the sides.What would have happened:
- the church tower would have been blown up before any Germans would have
entered the town, as snipers are not that new
- a small group of German soldiers would have checked the
town
- ...So, I probably saw 2 movies on the same day, the best and the worst war
movie of the year. It doesn't surprise me, that the good part, was just a
visually great set-up of a fixed plot, whereas when Spielberg was writing the
story, it turned out to be worst rubbish. If you want to see a good war
movie, take Full Metal Jacket, or Platoon. 

******
15 November 1998
3

Yes, the opening sequence is breathtaking.  Once it's over with though, the
movie is a tired rehash of every WW II movie cliche.  It also features
perhaps the most dreadful score of John Williams' career.

******
3 November 1998
4

:-) I can't imagine that anyone who has seen this film will still think "...
cool guys" about some characters (like in other war movies eg Platoon);
every human being will realize that war is one of the most awful things on
earth!:-( But I don't like that Mr. Spielberg wants to manipulate our
thoughts::-( The one who kisses his cross before he enters the battle does survive.
DOES RELIGION PROTECT ONESELF?:-( The German Soldier who is saved by Tom Hanks - because the American
soldiers killed only when they had to (?) - kills him at the end of the
film. Is it that easy?Best moment of the film:
The children and grandchildren of the old man (the saved Ryan) look at him
with BLANK LOOKS at the war monument understanding NOTHING AT ALL of his
feelings.

******
1 November 1998
4

yes: patriotic tripe.SANDS OF IWO JIMA had a similar line about "duty", and less screen time than
RYAN devoted to the Stars and Stripes;
FULL METAL JACKET had more harrowing (and intellectually honest depiction of
the mind's slip into insanity (as well as containing many of the models for
Spielberg's shots in the final shoot-em-up);
DAS BOOT achieved an existentialist dimension;
ALL QUIET ON THE WESTERN FRONT(1930) seared into memory the ignorance and
naivete of the scared youth on BOTH sides of the battle
lines;
HEARTS AND MINDS had realistic footage;
JURASSIC PARK used the distant roar of the approaching enemy
better;Face it: the Friend of Bill has created a monstrous emotional rollercoaster
which is wrapped in mom's apple pie and American boys' mission to "deliver
freedom to the world as history's agents."  At this juncture in
history--1998--such jingoism bespeaks an America desperately searching for a
jusification for its increasingly adventurist, amoral, self-serving and
self-proclaimed role as World Leader-(and leading debtor)-cum-tyrant.This is the greatest war film ever made in the second quarter of 1998, and
nothing more.  Except a potful of patriotic, historically inaccurate,
hopelessly implausible, racist, sadistic, and finally just maudlin...well,
tripe.  It rates a 3 from me, because it is so effortless  and shameless a
pastiche of war-movies' cliches.What a sad state the movies are in, when this empty a film is lauded with
such superlatives!  

******
12 October 1998
6

Saving Private Ryan is billed as an anti-war epic.  Nothing could be further
from the truth.  Every character is devoted to fighting the war.  Tom
Hanks's Captain Miller sends his men into battle even when it is possible,
and preferential to their mission,  to avoid.  The green interpreter turns
out to be (gasp!) a coward, and is only redeemed by killing a certain
German.  This is not an anti war movie. 

******
9 October 1998
3

This movie is a technically perfect one. But that's all!
The story is unbelievable. Only pictures and sound
show the cruelness of war. The actors and the script fail
to convince you of the pointlessness of it. Sorry, but
this movie is a complete failure! What the hell have Spielberg done
here???

******
27 September 1998
6

Its the best war movie about Americans in WW II, I agree, but somehow
everybody seems to forget the Americans weren't the only ones there. Good
thing if you see what kind of stupid decisions even a captain can make ( the
radarpost).
Great directing, good acting, mediocre plot, mediocre dialogue. An ending
that makes any sane person sick, lots of sentimental conversations that
don't add anything to the storyline.
Truly patriotic, truly American, truly Hollywood.

******
8 July 2014
1
I wish someone had saved me from this film. It was like watching paint
dry, except with very little oxygen in the room dying painfully. This
film was supposedly a classic, but it felt more old fashioned than
record players on a Star wars spaceship.I went to see this film because it was supposedly a classic and a film
as my friends said I "must watch". Well, now I must go and wash myself
clean and go find a breathing apparatus or I may pass out from the
sheer terribleness of this film.The worst parts of the film were the action scenes and the dialogue. I
think Michael Bay or George Lucas would have turned their noses up at
it.

******
14 May 2010
10
Saving private Ryan is for me the best war movie ever!!!!It is an
important movie reflecting morals and values of how 8 men risk their
lives for one. Simply brilliant, really tense and realistically
portrayed, this movie held my attention throughout. There are some
scenes which are really strong. They can make you smile, cry and look
away.Thats how powerful SPR is. On the whole i give it 10/10 as there was absolutely nothing in the
movie that i didn't like. Steven Spielberg = Awesomeness!!!! SPR is a
standard, a force to reckon with, a dark horse among war movies whose
simplicity and strength cannot be matched.

******
15 March 2009
8
This is definitely one of the more powerful war films out there, if not
the most powerful. I will admit, when I first saw it at school, I found
the first half-hour extremely upsetting to watch.The acting is outstanding. Especially from Tom Hanks and Matt Damon,
and the music alongside Schindler's List is John William's most
haunting score I've heard.It does drag in the middle and the dialogue doesn't always flow as well
as it should, but what we have is a historically accurate, extremely
well made and directed and unashamedly brutal film. I mean, in the
stabbing scene, towards the end, my English teacher had to leave the
room. It was like watching Frankenstein's monster tearing out
Elizabeth's heart.8.5/10 for a truly emotional and appropriately sombre war-film, that is
a little slow at times. But it deserves to be in the top 250, really it
is that good! Bethany Cox

******
25 September 2007
7
The best thing about SPR is the Omaha Beach sequence. That was very
realistic, as well as being factual. The rest of the story is
fictional, only somewhat realistic, and rather unlikely. First of all,
the WWII US Army would never have wasted a Ranger Captain who was a
company commander to lead a SQUAD of soldiers. They would have assigned
a platoon sergeant, or at most a 2nd Lieutenant. I can believe they
might send a squad of regular infantry to find a single soldier, but
using Rangers is a stretch. Rangers are more highly trained, and would
be used for an important military objective, not a "P.R. mission".
There were some touches that I liked. I liked the way Tom Hanks
portrayed Captain Miller as a normal guy who's approaching burnout, and
is starting to get the "shakes". Also the way he kept a certain amount
of distance from his men until they were down to a small group. The
part about the company having a "pool" on his prewar occupation, and it
turning out to be a teacher. The way the sniper, Private Daniel Jackson
(Barry Pepper), quotes Scripture to calm himself and steady his aim.
The running "FUBAR" joke. However, the end really bothers me. Having
Captain Miller laying a heavy guilt trip on Private Ryan (Matt Damon),
as he dies is unrealistic melodrama. Finally, much has been said about
various 'tactical errors' made by both the German and American forces
in the movie's climactic battle. Steven Spielberg responded, saying
that in many scenes he opted to replace sound military tactics for
dramatic effect. Shame on you, Steven! Neither Robert Rodat (writer)
nor Steven Spielberg (director) have ever served in the military. In
fact, Spielberg attended California State University, Long Beach, to
avoid the draft for the Vietnam War. So this is the kind of UNREALISTIC
war movie made by someone who went to college to avoid military
service. I don't think it helped that Robert Roden had to rewrite the
screenplay 11 times before it was accepted.In the words of Sam Fuller, "The only way to make a truly realistic war
movie is to fill the theater with smoke and flame, the sound of
explosions, and to have someone shoot the person sitting next to you."
Amen!

******
10 September 2007
10
Saving Private Ryan is one of the greatest war movies ever made. It's
an unbelievably emotionally powerful film that inspires a horror seldom
seen in the usual Hollywood movie. This has to be not only one of the
greatest war movies ever made, but possibly THE greatest movie ever
ever made. I would easily put it on the level of the Godfather movies.
Why? SPR has infinite character depth. There are no GI Joes or
murderous killers that every single war movie needs to have. Every
soldier is just that - a soldier. I may also be one of the few who felt
sorry for Upham. Keep in mind that he wasn't a soldier per se. He was
an interpreter. Also, keep in mind that he hadn't really established a
bond with the unit yet, which was something that they all shared.SPR has a realistic portrayal of WWII. They even portrayed the Germans
and SS better than any movie I have ever seen. It also forces you to
feel sorry for soldiers of both sides, like when the two American
soldiers shot the two Czechs (I believe, as mentioned on the forum) who
surrendered, and then taunted them. This was a subtlety that I only
recently found out about. I always assumed that they were German.Tom Hank's character was truly great. He wasn't a stock character at
all, and seemed like he could be a real person. This was actually true
for all of the characters. I also, guiltily, felt a little sorry for
Steam Boat Willie, who was probably going to be executed in a ditch for
being the sole survivor of, you know. You know what happens in the
final scene, and I couldn't feel sorry for him anymore, and was happy,
as we all were, when the event after that happened. This was just one
of the many amazing themes and subtleties that were involved with this
movie. I have seen it over 15 times, and still notice new things every
time.In conclusion, this movie is gruesome but beautiful. What greater
present for Veterans Day is there than to watch this movie? They truly
were the greatest Generation, and their gift of freedom to us keeps on
giving.

******
10 September 2007
10
I've watched many war movies since I was young but none have impressed
me as much as Saving Private Ryan. The realism was top notch. I have
served the army infantry for a number of years and I know the sound and
shock of artilleries and bullets. Furthermore, the emotions of the
soldiers were presented so well throughout the show.As I was watching the show, it kept prompting me to realize the
hardship of war and the suffering of losing human lives. Never before
has a war movie conveyed to me so deeply that we should never go to war
- for whatever reason. Strange to hear myself commenting like this when
I was trained so hard in the army to lead men to fight so aggressively
in a possible battlefield.

******
9 July 2007
10
Let me get things clear that June 6, 1944 D-Day was not just some
"small battle". It was the turning point of world war 2. OK, Saving
Private Ryan gave me the feeling that I was watching WWII from
someone's perspective. I was especially amazed by the way this movie
was captured with the camera angles, the outstanding acting, and the
amazing special effects. What was unfortunate was that the best actor
got a very short part. He was the medic on Omaha beach that yells "We
did it, we stopped the bleeding," then the man they saved gets shoot in
the head. The medic flips out. That medic should have gotten a longer
part. But anyways, I found this movie to be awesome.Total: 10/10 A+

******
3 April 2007
10
This movie is about a mother that is about to be notified that three of
her four sons have been killed in a war. The fourth son is not known to
alive nor dead. Eight men begin a journey to find and bring the fourth
son home to his mother. Throughout this journey you are taken to the
war at that specific time. This movie shows what the war was truly like
and helps people who have never suffered through a war really look and
reflect on their life. This movie shows the extent to which a
government will go to, to simply ease a mother's pain.Another wonderful aspect of this movie is that when the fourth son is
finally found and is informed of his brothers death he wants to
continue with his mission that was set before him. He feels his
brothers deaths would have been in vain if he does not complete his
mission. Therefore the eight soldiers aid in in attempting his mission
before returning home. This is another important aspect of the movie as
it shows that most soldiers are there for a reason and believe in the
cause they are fighting for.

******
26 February 2007
9
Saving Private Ryan is one one of Spielberg's best movies, and that's
saying a lot. It was an incredible experience and the first twenty
minutes or so was intense, graphic, and completely realistic. It is
known as probably one of the greatest scenes in cinema history ever. It
was a great beginning to an incredible movie.Tom Hanks plays Captain John H. Miller. After surviving the attack at
Omaha Beach (known now as D-Day) he and his platoon are given new
orders to search for a private Ryan and bring him back home. You see,
all of Ryan's brothers have been killed in combat, and since he is the
last survivor, the higher ups in the U.S. military want him returned
safely to his grieving mother who has already lost three of her boys.Miller of course takes the job. He doesn't much like it, but he is just
following the orders of his superiors. When he tells his platoon about
it, they are all against it. After all, why should they risk all their
lives for one person. They gripe about it, but ultimately they followed
their leader and go on the search mission behind enemy lines where
Ryan's squadron was parachuted in.Along the way we learn about the characters, yet the pace never was
drawn out. As the action is happening we are also learning a little bit
about the characters. Vin Diesel had and early roll with this movie,
and other actors include Tom Sizemore as Sergeant Mike Horvath, Edward
Burns as Private Richard Reiben, Barry Pepper as Private Daniel
Jackson, Adam Goldberg as Private Stanley Mellish, and Henry Thomas.
All were good in their roles.This movie had excellent cinematography and editing as well as great
sound. It was no wonder it won the academy awards for all of these, and
I also believe that Spielberg's Oscar for Best Director was the right
choice. Tom Hanks was the main star, but Spielberg's directing made all
the characters seem just as important, and kept the pace of the moving
going without any real slow up.My only question would be about the story which is told form a
soldier's view. I have know problem with the story being told from that
view, but what I do have a problem with is believing that our leaders
would create a mission that would risk eight of their men to save one.
I know that the grieving mother lost three of her boys, but would our
military really go through all this for one man? I don't think so. But
then it is just a movie. Overall I enjoyed it, and would highly
recommend it to anybody.

******
14 May 2005
7
Saving Private Ryan is well-filmed and well-acted. But it is
thematically a mess, and on that count is wildly overrated.The complaints about this movie on these IMDb comments are two: one
that it is properly speaking an anti-war film, and the other that it
indulges in crude nationalism. Both complaints are on the mark, but it
should be noticed that they are not quite consistent with one another.
Saving Private Ryan, in the tradition of Vietnam movies like Platoon
and Full Metal Jacket, focuses on the human cost of war. But its moral,
that we must earn the sacrifice those bold men made for us so long ago,
sits rather uncomfortably with the focus on the cost. After all, how
could we earn the loss of these men and the grief of their mothers? By
living well? By being good people? It doesn't make sense. How could you
make your life worth the sacrifice of so many others?Perhaps the point is that we ought to be grateful to the men who fought
and died for saving our lives. But this doesn't make sense either. The
war in Europe did not properly speaking save our lives. Wars are rarely
if ever fought to save lives. They are fought to conquer and to defend
against being conquered. But being conquered does not amount to being
killed, and it might well save lives to surrender. Spielberg does
obliquely refer to the Holocaust in the film. But he must know as
everyone does that the war was not fought to end the Holocaust.Perhaps Spielberg is tacitly assuming some flag-waving boilerplate
about how they fought 'for freedom', and we ought to be grateful for
that. I don't deny that 'saving Europe for liberal democracy'however
we understand that--was a noble cause. But it would be impossible to
tell from this movie that this was the point of the war, and it might
well be impossible to believe that such a cause was worth dying for
once you had properly taken in its message: that war is the senseless
destruction of mothers' sons.War movies traditionally fall into two types. One type focuses on the
heroic cause the soldiers fought for, in which case you will want to
glorify war. You will want to make your soldiers look strong, noble,
and make our hearts melt with admiration for them. Otherwise how can we
encourage others to fight for such (often abstract) causes? Most
classic WWII movies fit this mold. And given that most of us think WWII
was fought for a good cause, this makes sense. The other alternative is
to focus on the human cost of war, as Vietnam movies and WWI movies
typically do. But it isn't a coincidence that Vietnam and WWI are
thought to be pointless wars. The idea of such movies is that
nationalism and social habits can lead us to sacrifice our children for
nothing. By shocking us with the horror of war, we are encouraged to
mistrust martial impulses. Saving Private Ryan tries to take from both traditions, and ends up
with a garbled mess. WWII was a noble cause that could not have been
worth the sacrifice. It might be argued that each type of movie neglects some important
truth that the other type captures. Perhaps some great filmmaker will
successfully ennoble the causes of war and at the same time capture its
horror. Perhaps someone already has. All I know is that Spielberg has
not.

******
30 January 2005
10
The opening sequence, is without doubt.1/ The most Harrowing and Horrific depiction of War that i have ever
seen.2/ The Best Movie Sequence to test out your surround sound system that
i've ever encountered.After learning that 3 out 4 of Mrs. Ryans Sons have all died in combat
during various missions in World War II, It is decided that her last
remaining son will not be allowed to die in battle, and a small group
of soldiers is assembled to get Private Ryan out.Spielberg has undoubtedly captured the feel and the gloom of War, and
has certainly avoided unnecessary Dramatisation. With a Top Class Cast,
a Great Director and a Powerful Story, Saving Private Ryan is probably
one of the finest movies ever made.10/10

******
27 November 2004
6
I watched that movie in the theaters shortly after its release and I
was expecting something brilliant upon reading all the praises it was
receiving. I couldn't be more mistaken.One of my biggest problem lies with the opening D-Day landing shoot-out
and the way it is shown on-screen. Sure there is a lot of blood,
graphical violence and flying body parts... But there's no direction
whatsoever. It's "handheld camera" all along to make us think we're
watching a documentary. Sadly we aren't and what we are watching
(although it happened) is not the least believable. The rendition
on-screen is absolutely laughable which it should not be. It goes over
the top with the one soldier holding his cut-off arm with the hand that
he's got left. I lost it at that point. It was up to the worst of
horror movies. I really believe it would have a much more powerful
sequence, had Spielberg done a real editing job, instead, Spielberg
apparently decided that having guys running in front of his cameras
being randomly blown away by fake explosions was the way to go. In
short, the whole sequence is weak because of Spielberg careless work
and it kills the film right there.And then there's the search for Ryan, the lack of character
development, (sorry but the guessing game about Tom Hanks' character's
real profession is no character development), the mandatory
misidentification, the mandatory french tune (boy! there sure was only
one record available in France at that time... long live stereotypes!),
and the ending which I won't discuss here for I don't want to spoil it
for people who might actually enjoy it. That picture is rather
pedestrian and would have been better had the plot/character
development been strengthened and at the same time been 30 minutes
shorter.Two good things though one being the battle sequence in the devastated
village (baring the dumb ending)...and guess what! Spielberg apparently
found his way back to the editing room. At last! The second one being
the acting which is remarkably solid and really saves the picture (and
I'm no Tom Hanks' fan!).I will not go any longer for I think I have made my point.This movie is disappointing because of its numerous weaknesses
(directing, plot, character development) and is therefore, in my
opinion, terribly overrated. Once again, Spielberg fails to deliver
when taking on a serious topic. 6 out of 10 overall.If you wish to see a great WW2 movie, go check Peckinpah's Cross of
Iron for example.

******
2 January 1999
1

I was disappointed with SPR.  Unfortunately, I found the movie terribly
sappy, maudlin, cheesy.  Especially the frame.  I really agree with what
Spielberg said about himself:  he makes movies that he would have enjoyed as
a child.  This movie would have been more entertaining to me if I were 10 or
11 years old.

******
11 January 2008
9
The best and most powerful war movie ever.Its been hailed as the best and most realistic war movie ever and it
is.Thinking that war was this horrifying is unbelievable but it was like
this and Saving Private Ryan shows it in every detail. This is one
movie i would recommend for parents to show their kids. Kids need to
know what war was really like. Instead of watching war movies where
they portray it as bullet dodging - jumping through explosions fun.
Overlooking the gore i think kids should watch it to understand and
appreciate the war veterans more. It sure made me appreciate them more.The opening scene is one you will never forget. I am referring to the
Ohama beach scene of course,which is the most powerful scene in the
movie although it is the most graphic it still is a strong scene.After a mother loses all her sons except one. Eight men go behind enemy
lines to save him and bring him back home to his mother. Guided by
Captain John Miller the men journey into the heart of war and make it
their mission to bring private Ryan home to his mother.Every actor did a great job. I was greatly surprised by Vin Diesal he
did a nice performance. Tom Hanks was excellent and Matt Damon was good
as private Ryan.I recommend this to everyone and i mean everyone if you don't have this
movie i would run out and borrow it.9/10

******
25 May 2005
10
This movie was told excellently from director Steven Spieldberg. The
whole experience was realistic. Tom Hanks was excellent as Captain John
Miller, and I felt so sorry for his character in the end. Matt Damon
was excellent as James Ryan, who is the main purpose of their mission.
The whole cast does a great job playing the roles of Miller's men who
are not sure about why they're risking their lives to save just one
man.No other war movie except Schindlers List can capture the realness
and realities of war on film with so much suspense, but Spieldberg has
managed to do it. I commend him for his effort and great accomplishment
that has reminded all of us to never forget the number of people who
died for freedom.

******
17 May 2005
5
For once the hype surrounding a Spielberg film proves accurate: the
first half-hour of the film, which shows the WWII Allied invasion of
Normandy, is every bit as powerful as you've heard, a knock-you-flat
piece of film-making that surpasses every other cinematic image of
war's hell. Unfortunately, D-Day as such has absolutely nothing to do
with the story of SAVING PRIVATE RYAN: once this brilliant sequence is
over, we are left with a highly sentimental, tiresomely repetitive, and
completely unoriginal film that drags on and on to an extremely obvious
conclusion.The story concerns a young man (Matt Damon) whose brothers have been
killed in battle, leaving him as his parents' only surviving child. Top
brass decide that Pvt. Ryan must be sent home--but they are not
entirely sure where he is in war-torn Europe. Capt. John Miller (Tom
Hanks) is accordingly snatched up from the D-Day battle and along with
a handful of men is sent to find Ryan and bring him back in one
piece--and at this point the film pretty much comes to a grinding halt.Hanks once again proves why he is among Hollywood's most bankable
stars: like James Stewart, he has an everyman quality sure to appeal to
most viewers--but although he remains as likable as ever, the script
really doesn't give Hanks much to work with, and neither he nor his
co-stars are greatly memorable. Indeed, once the opening battle
sequence ends the film becomes so slow and so repetitive that you could
easily nip outside, cut the lawn, and come back in to find you've not
missed anything at all. Final word? The opening battle scene is worth
the movie, but don't think you're missing anything if you can't stay
awake for the end.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer

******
27 July 2001
1

Overrated World War II drama, that somehow became a big hit, and won
Spielberg his second Academy Award. The film starts and ends with two very
realistic battle scenes, but what they put in the middle is meaningless and
pointless; pure corn. I admire Spielberg the serious, older director, but
somehow I miss the young director who made movies like E.T., Jaws, Duel and
Raiders of the Lost Ark. His latter-day-work has lost that wonderful sense
of wonder that made him so dear to movie buffs. Some of the action is very
realist, but if I will only want realism, I would watch a documentary. I
prefer the poetic and more powerful The Thin Red Line, a film that reminds
me of the young Spielberg.  

******
19 January 2001
3

I won't rate this picture as an Academy-awarded.
First sequence is too boredom. We know how they were killed.It was too long like a rush-film or a Russian war-movie the title of which
I
couldn't remind.
If I were the producer, the Normandy scene would be cut into 6 or 10
minutes.
It will be a fair length for the movie.
The plot was too much elaborated and empty.
Anyway what is it that Tom Hanks' right hand dindle.
Why did he tingle like that? Had the writer and the rest of staff
forgotten
this matter?
Goofs!!
but the production-works are marvelous.
Thus I rate it 4 for them.


******
7 February 2007
6
No one can doubt the power of this film's opening sequence. When Miller
(Tom Hanks), slimed in blood and filth, stares blank eyed at the carnal
slaughter around him , you cannot help but think 'That was what is was
really like'. And you cannot help but reflect on the importance of this
moment in modern history, and on the undiluted bravery of the men who
were there. And yet....when the initial battle is over, Horvath (Tom
Sizemore) scoops up a handful of dirt and pours it in to a tin marked
'France'. It's a moment of forced quirkiness, quite out of keeping with
the frank reportage of what's gone before. It's a bit of business, used
by the director as a punctuation mark, and it's the first sign that
this is a film with fatal flaws.Having survived Omaha Beach, Miller and his men are assigned to locate
Ryan, whose whereabouts are unknown. Ryan's brothers have been killed
in action and the US military brass cannot allow Ryan to be lost too.
There's a historical precedent for this, although 'Saving Private Ryan'
is a wholly fictionalised account. Given their mission, the soldiers
debate it's worth - are they to throw their lives away in order to
arbitrarily save someone else? Conflicts arise, there are uneasy stand
offs, and reluctant truces. They find Ryan, and save him. Ryan lives to
be a humble old man, but most of the soldiers who saved him do not live
to be old men of any sort.Spielberg's technique is frequently brilliant, but it's unvaried, so
that the final battle is no different in tone from the first one, three
hours of screen time previous. But the real flaws are in the script.
Miller is an ordinary decent man, who will make difficult decisions
when pushed. Horvath is the tough sergeant, Wade is the medic disgusted
by the slaughter, Reiben is the insubordinate, Mellish is the comedian
who doesn't know when to shut up, Upham is the tenderfoot who's never
fired a weapon on his life, Jackson is an illiterate from the deep
south who's also crack shot, Carparzo is a giant of a man. Miller could
be played by Gregory Peck, Horvath by Ernest Borgnine. Reiben might be
a young William Holden and so on.The worst crime is the character of the German soldier who the men want
to execute in revenge for the death of Wade. The German begs pitifully
for his life, says in broken English that he loves America and hates
Germany. Upham is a humanitarian, he can't stand to see a man killed in
cold blood and he persuades Miller to let the German go free. Upham has
never fired a weapon in his life, remember, and Miller is full of human
decency. So at the end, what happens? The German returns, having thrown
in his lot with another platoon of German soldiers. In what is
portrayed as a supreme irony, the German kills Miller, and in turn, is
killed by Upham, who finally finds his courage, or at least, his
capacity to kill. The problem is that as soon as you set eyes on Upham,
he's so weak and pathetic that it's a certainty his character will
undergo a dramatic reversal. It doesn't matter that Tom Hanks as
Miller, Jeremy Davies as Upham, and Barry Pepper as Jackson are superb.
It doesn't matter that as vignettes, the deaths of Wade and Mellish are
exceptional. Behind the throat clearing and the reverence, the clichés
stretch from the flinty military hawk who gives the order that Ryan
must be saved, to the final soft focus image of the older Ryan himself.
In the end, 'Saving Private Ryan' is a more callow, less worldly film
than 'Attack' or 'A Walk In The Sun' and the savagery of it's opening
only serves to emphasise the fact.

******
5 July 2005
3
If you have read any of my posts then you might have detected a slight
pro-military bent. Then you probably think that I liked "Saving Private
Ryan". Think again! It stank. I muted the first 20 minutes of the movie
where they depict with gruesome relish the effects of concentrated
machine gun fire and artillery explosions on the human body. I
preferred spending my time reading a book to watching that. Once that
carnage was over I was treated to typical foul language, but nothing I
haven't heard in my tour of duty. That I could have forgiven. But what
they did with the story-line was absolutely dreadful.Clearly the people who wrote this script have no sense when it comes to
military behavior or military tactics. For instance, the troops were
going to mutiny to the command decision by their captain to attack a
machine gun nest. Well I would too with an IDI*T like Tom Hanks'
character leading a charge in broad daylight directly into the line of
fire of said machine gun. Even an English teacher turned captain would
have more sense than that. Then they captured a German soldier. So what
do they do with him? They blindfold him and tell him to walk 1000 paces
before taking off the blindfold... Well what a surprise when he turns
up later to fight against this squad and tortuously slowly impale one
of squad soldiers with a bayonet. All while one of the squad cowers in
fear while his fellow soldiers are getting massacred around him. What a
nice way to depict the soldiers. Oh and then the same cowardly soldier
somehow finds his courage in time to capture some German soldiers
(including the previous released prisoner) This time however he
"cold-bloodedly" shoots him (revenge?)... I won't even bore you with
the stupid decision for a light infantry squad to hold a bridge
(instead of blowing it) against several tanks & armor with infantry
support. It was a stupid movie and I am only feeling better now that I
am able to give vent to my frustration at having watched it. I'm only
glad that I didn't pay any money to watch this crud. I hate movies that
blank me off when I watch them. THERE! 3 out of 10

******
2 July 1999
1

Although unintentionally, this movie is creating a new envelope for
violent
movies to push.  The next movie that is made along the lines of Starship
Troopers, which was only a notch behind in my view, will certainly rival
Saving Private Ryan.
In fact, I didn't find much difference between the two movies, save for
how
utterly pretentious Saving Private Ryan was.  An all star cast that went
completely unused throughout the entire movie.
People often say that this is a movie with a message, a message of the
utter
horror of war.  However, I personally prefer the delivery in such movies
as
All's Quiet on the Western Front, which relies on acting rather than a
multi
million dollar budget (was it that low?) used to create a gore
fest.
Frankly, I believe that most people won't get the message, and a lot of
people will treat it as an action movie, say, "Hey cool, that guy's got no
arm!", instead of being sick to their stomach, like they should
be.
I faced the same thing with Starship Troopers; the violence in the movie
made me sick, but for most people, it was a joyride.
Well, y'all had better get used to it, because thanks to this movie, there
will be plenty more along those lines.

******
24 May 2010
1
I dislike the movie for the following reasons.1. it is unrealistic. 2. It is one sided 3. It is manipulative and
sentimental 4. It is patriotic in the wrong way, till the point that
makes one puke and sympathize with the Germans. 5. It demonizes and
dehumanizes the Germans. 6. It is actually a very bad movie.As said, this is another rubbish film about the good Americans versus
the evil Germans.The plot(if you may call it that) is so flawed and biased that i could
not help it but sympathize strongly with the Germans and wish for the
immediate and violent death of Private Ryan. Again, this resented
person(Spielberg) is exorcising his inner demons, and portraying the
Germans as cruel monsters without a soul. It was never that way.I sometimes wonder if people in USA go to school, read books or are
capable of impartial and independent thought. Are they? I want to
believe that there are still intelligent people in USA.The Rambo scene in which the Americans throw mortar grenades to the
German tanks made me stop watching the movie. I finished it other day.
I found it insulting and utterly repulsive. But of course:What can some poor evil German wretches do against private Ryan and his
mariachis? Of course, nothing. Entire panzer divisions would perish
against this stronghold of decency, morality, democracy, values, etc.
Now, please hold on a second, because i need to puke.I am tired of the growing level of immorality and perversion displayed
by Spielberg in his movies. It is all so one sided that makes you sick.I actually would like to watch a movie in which a few dumb German
soldiers, behaving like idiots and chewing gum, destroy with stones an
entire American armored division. This would be good fun, because this
is exactly what Spielberg tries to convey in reverse. Really bad movie, bordering immorality in his depiction of the German
side. We did not need this movie.

******
25 July 2007
1
This is almost on par with a Uwe Boll movie for its sheer lack of
intelligence! Saving Private Ryan was, and to a degree; still is, shown
as one of the finest films of the 20th Century, on a par with the
Godfather, or Apocalypse Now. I'm sorry, but this is exactly what this
film isn't.Here is my list on why this film was such a disgrace...Actors: Who the hell bit Vin Desiel in this movie? The man has no
talent of any kind whatsoever! Tom Hanks wasn't the lovable Forest
Gump, he wasn't doing well as the average guy and officer trying to do
his best for the greater good. The other actors did little to push the
roles they where given and as a result where really forgettable.Story: Who the hell told Mr Spealburg this was a good story?!? I'm a
Writer myself, and if i had written this I'd have taken myself outside
and shot myself straight afterword. Not only was the basic story utter
bullocks (Why would the U.S. Army care about this bloke Ryan anyway? in
WW2 millions of people died, entire armies where wiped out, not just
entire families) but the film is littered with inconsistencies and
inaccuracies. It's Stephen Spelburg at his most Romantic (and that
means bad for your I.Q. level.) The first sense, yes, it's very good,
yes its gory, yes, it's shocking, but it is no where near what real war
is like. No where near what combat in the Second World War was like,
purely 'cos Stephen Spelburg was NOT there. No one, sides the people
who fought there, knows what it was like. No one had scaled the cliff
face until a full 6 hours after the invasion began... also, Utah beach
was only considered bloody 'cos the defences on the other parts of the
'Mightly' Adlantic wall was an old French Farmer with three teeth and a
Spade.That's just the beginning of my list of terrible story points, if I
wrote them all, the very Internet it's self would crash.Characters: Who are they? Who cares? Not me, they where all idiots.
Stephen Spealburg does not have an emotional bone in his entire body...
are we really supposed to care for these poorly crafted, 2 dimensional
people? The humour between them was so bad i've seen new Simpson
episodes that are better, definitely better written and I for one hate
new simpsons.Special Effects: Stephen Speburg is a slave to CGI. Yeh, it is
impressive, but it's also pretty poorly constructed and carried out,
due to it being filmed in digital time. Stephen Spelburg's #1 student
must be a German moron called Uwe Boll, he uses the same camera
techniques of shaking to create the illusion of danger and tension, it
does work in this film... for 5 seconds, then just gives you sickness
in the pit of you're stomach that isn't good for the audiences health
(Much like the story).I could go on and on, but i think I'll stop here. It's so damn bad i
think I've said everything that needs to be said.One to avoid.

******
26 March 2007
1
I could go on and on and on forever about what a p*ss poor excuse this
is for a "historically accurate" war film. Gimme a break. The first 10
minutes is the ONLY bit of this movie worth seeing. Things that come to
mind initially - there's not one soldier in the squad who is NOT a
blatantly obvious stereotype. The Jewish-American GI crying when he
finds the Hitler Youth dagger is a pathetic attempt to jerk a tear out
of the audience and that guy (can't remember his name) is an atrocious
actor. I actually cheered when he got stabbed later in the film. Tom
Sizemore's character collecting dirt so we can see what "tough guy" he
is coz he's fought in Italy and France etc...lame! The young private
"coming of age" by learning how to gun down unarmed German
soldiers...uh huh. The P51 Mustang (an aircraft that was, incidentally,
NEVER used as a ground-attack aircraft) saving the day at the end??
Come oooooooon people!! Ever seen Rio Bravo? And not to mention the
ridiculous story (which, i don't care what it was based on - is
FICTIONAL) about sending 8 men to save 1...if that had really happened
those 8 men would have ended up DEAD real quick.And you people (those who have NEVER seen a war besides the lies your
government feeds you every night on TV) say this is the most realistic
war movie ever made, HOW DARE YOU comment on something you know NOTHING
about.If you want a good war movie rent Platoon, Hamburger Hill or The Thin
Red Line. Leave this one on the shelf.

******
10 December 2005
2
The opening scene promises much and it's great and dramatic. But far
from realistic. It can't be possible to shoot the Germans using a
mirror. I can't help but wonder where are the British in this film?
Americans didn't won the war all by themselves.The way Germans are
portrayed is stupid. To one dead American there are 5 dead Germans. How
could the Germans invade almost half of Europe if they are so lousy
fighters? Visually the movie is great but the story is unbelievable and
the whole movie is way too patriotic. Why would anyone send many men to
save one guy? It would have been much easier to contact private Ryan's
superiors and send the guy back home. And the scene where captain
Miller dies is just a big cliché.

******
29 December 1998
1

With all the hype about this movie, I expected to see a realistic portrayal
of war. I also expected to see a true story, which all the trailers claim
this movie is. This movie has as much basis in fact as that cheesy soap "The
X-Files". Spielberg is trying to mess with everyone's head again, and thanks
to this movie, there will be a whole generation of people who think "Saving
Private Ryan" really happened. Luckily they teach students better in school.
If you want a hard-hitting, realistic portrayal of war, try Arliss Howard in
"Full Metal Jacket", Charlie Sheen in "Platoon", Adrien Brody in "The Thin
Red Line", Meg Ryan in "Courage Under Fire", or, heck, anything else. This
movie had the potential to be one of the greatest war movies of all time.
The scenes on the beaches are not only gruesomely real, they're
breathtakingly brutal, as well as soul-stopping. If the rest of the movie
had one tenth the shock-quality or realism the first few minutes had, this
movie would have been one of the best war movies ever made.Hollywood glamour has ruined this movie. Thankfully people are too smart to
be sucked in by what this movie claims "truly happened", but there are
already some schools that are discussing using this movie as a way to teach
students about war. Why not use "Starship Troopers"? It's just as realistic,
and unlike "Saving Private Ryan", can actually educate. If you walked away
from this movie feeling dissatisfied and cheated, check out some of the
other war movies I mentioned. They are all far better depictions of what war
truly is, and unlike SPR, they don't claim to be the truth. For a truly
realistic war movie that deserves every award it's been rumored for, check
out the 1998 remake of "The Thin Red Line". 

******
29 September 1998
1

Definitely one extreme case of "well, people told me it was a
masterpiece so it must be the best movie ever" syndrome. The problem with
SPR is not that there is much to be looked down upon, but that there is very
little to be impressed by. I felt sick when I saw that this film made it to
number four on the best movies ever list. Although I like Spielberg and he
has made many great films, even a few masterpieces, this is a truly mediocre
movie. Blah all the way.

******
29 October 2005
1
I could not believe how many historical inaccuracies there were in this
film! The US army refused to use the British invention of "the sticky
bomb" saying that it was a waste of military intelligence and a waste
of time, then it saved the day in the movie. Not realistic at all! Plus
the idea of the US army risking that many men so one mother isn't too
upset her sons passed away... absolutely ridiculous! Absolutely
Ridiculous!!!!! Horrible film. I expected much more from Stephen
Spielberg. Worst Spielberg film EVER!!! If you haven not yet seen this
movie, DO NOT waste your time!!! It made me want to demand my money
back from the cinema! Just don't waste your time!!!

******
23 February 2004
1

God I hate this movie-It is long winded, unbearably cheesy in parts (the very beginning & end-
not
the actual landing),having said this the battle scenes are breathtaking- It is just the
unbearbable wait in between coupled with the typical Spielberg cheese
overload that makes me want to gouge my eyes out.

******
29 December 1998
1

The hype surrounding this film has been nothing short of ridiculous, since
the film is nothing more than a host of hoary old war movie cliches slapped
on a cornball plot that would have been right at home in the 50s. Total lack
of character, particularly in Hanks' performance, which relies more on the
viewer's perception of Hanks as an all-American guy rather than any kind of
flesh and blood human. The film tries to have it both ways; war is horrible,
but hey, we Americans are great and kick butt, especially against those Nazi
scum. Total manipulation from a master; not that it would take much to root
against the Nazis, but let's have it one way or the other: shades of gray,
or black and white. Spielberg wants it both ways. And what about the cheap
tactic of using the old veteran, who we later find out is Ryan, linking back
to Tom Hanks' character? How about basic continuity, Steve? And the American
flag at the beginning and end? It's as if Spielberg thinks the audience is
too stupid to know which side to root for. One of the best movies ever made?
Hardly. Not even a good movie, period...

******
25 July 1999
1

Why was this loved by all critics? Why was this loved by the academy? Why
was this loved by anyone?
I think that this is possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. Steven
Spielburg remains to be the sappiest director of all time. There was
absolutely no point in showing the D-day invasion at the beginning of this
film. There was no point to a lot of things in this film.
Sure this film was realistic, but I could care less about realism as long as
the rest makes sense. There were scenes in this movie that came out of
nowhere for no reason. 
Besides a bunch of nonsense scenes, this movie has a plot that drove me
insane. The U.S. government risks the lives of 8 men to save one so that his
mother won't be too depressed. 
The worst part of the entire film however was the showing of Private Ryan as
an old man in the cemetery. People were expected to weep through this entire
movie, I just wanted to leave, but I stayed thinking it'd get better. Boy
was I wrong!

******
4 December 1999
1

Overrated and Sentimental. Doesn't have anything new to add to the genre.
Re-treads the WWII films of the 1950s and early 1960s. Films like TO HELL
AND BACK, PATHS OF GLORY, SANDS OF IWO JIMA, PORKCHOP HILL, THE LONGEST
DAY,
THE VICTORS, etc. Those films, in my opinion, were fine but I wouldn't
want
to watch them all over again. That's how I felt sitting in the theater on
opening day. Like I was sitting through each and every one of those films.
In the overwrought, SAVING PRIVATE RYAN, Spielberg supplies his patented
boyish sense of wonder; something, I believe, is out of place in a genre
that is often appropriately somber. What I'm saying is, I just want to see
a
war drama that appeals to the mind rather than the emotions. A film like
the
brilliant, introspective, THE THIN RED LINE.

******
4 December 1999
1

Having read 'All Quite on the Western Front' just before seeing this movie,
I found a sour taste in my mouth while watching.  To tell a story that so
clearly dehumanizes the enemy in this day and age is shameful.  It is, to
me, propaganda.  Despite fighting for the side of the Nazis, most German
soldiers were just people.  We proud Americans were just as evil and just
as
exploited during Vietnam.  Until people stop believing that 'we' are
justified the holocausts will continue.  To see a much more interesting
film
about WWII try 'Midnight Clear' with Ethan Hawke.

******
21 November 2015
10
I don't believe why Saving Private Ryan did not get a Oscar as a best
movie in 1998, instead Shakespeare in Love got the Oscar for best
movie, Saving Private Ryan is one of the greatest movie of all time ,
but Shakespeare in Love is a waste of time to movie, Just look at the
IMDb rating of Saving Private Ryan it's 8.6 , and the dumb Shakespeare
in Love's rating is only 7.2 , i gave it 3 . Although Shakespeare in
Love deserve only one Oscar , as the Best Actress in a Leading Role
Gwyneth Paltrow , there is a very ridiculous moment in the movie when
the Queen Judi Dench was in the theater to watch the act no one notice
the Queen in the theater, I mean how did The Queen enter the theater
without being notice by any one , She is the Queen that's totally
ridiculous and a dumb act of the movie . That's All

******
11 November 2015
3
I knew going in and it being Spielberg that there wasn't going to be
much variety, but wow there is almost none. Most of the movie is
focused around of course "saving" Private Ryan. And yet it almost feels
like the movie is more about how much Spielberg is at his old tricks.
Most of the characters are one dimensional and hardly get any
development other than Tom Hanks who is as always golden. The worst of
them though is Matt Damon (he's Pvt. Ryan). He's stereotypically
arrogant and seems like the type of guy who's all talk and no walk. It
makes him pretty much impossible to like and leaves you with the desire
to shut off the movie once he's on the screen. As for the story, what
story? Most of what should be story is hampered by more arguing and
attempts at comedic, more lighthearted moments. In the middle of war?
Really? And the film being nearly 3 hours feels so padded and stretched
out that it's like watching a 90 minute movie in slow motion. So if you
want my advice, skip this and rent Full Metal Jacket.

******
16 February 2015
7
Saving Private Ryan movie is an Epic Biography movie that goes through
many twist and turns. Captain John Miller (Tom Hanks) was assigned a
task to rescue James Francis Ryan for the sake of only hope for her
Mother who lost all her sons apart from Private Ryan.Watching lot of action war movie recently I would like to rate: Acting:
8/10* Storyline: 9/10* Screenplay: 8/10*There are some terrific performances to take in : Tom Hanks as John
Miller, Matt Damon as Pvt. Ryan, Tom Sizemore, and Vin Diesel, to name
just a fewIf you're war movie lover than it is must watch for you... Some movies
recommended !) Black Hawk Down 2) Fury 3) Valkerie Enjoy Your time...

******
4 September 2014
1
This is the worst movie I have seen of Tom Hanks. It was intolerably
stupid and a pain to watch.It's a slow paced movie. duration is
long..boringgggg script..don't know why get 5 Oscars.Just like
everybody else, I was amazed by the "realism" of the first 5 minutes.
Once you get past the battle scenes, there's not much to work with. I'm
glad people (as manifest in the growing number of low reviews here) are
starting to realize this.The dialogue sounds like it is cut out of newspaper articles which
editorialize the mission. It's as though Spielberg thought his audience
was so stupid that the moral dilemma of the film had to be spelled out
for them in detail

******
23 November 2013
4
When most people talk about this movie they usually refer to the
violence. The extent of the violence portrayed at the beginning of the
movie was enough to attract an R rating, though this was lowered to an
MA rating because of the purpose of the violence. When I spoke to
people about it they seem to dwell upon this point and even talked
about the images that went through their minds when they went to sleep
and woke up. The image that went through my mind was that of the
soldiers under water getting struck by the bullets.The movie opens with the landing at Normandy and graphically shows the
horror of this beachhead. This part of the movie I thought was the best
part because it really draws out the horror, futility, and waste of
war. People were getting healed only to be shot and the bloodbath was
intense. The impact of this scene was even greater when three brothers,
in three different locations, are killed and their mother is due to
receive notice of their death on the same day. Thus the decision is
made that they must travel into France and rescue Private Joe Ryan, a
paratrooper who was misdropped.The major theme in this movie is the horror of war and this is picked
up at the beginning and the whole goal. Mother Ryan is devastated
because three of her son's are dead and thus the US army chooses to
rescue the forth son because the war has had a great impact on her
already and they decide that they need to comfort her by returning to
her her only son.Yet there is a purpose behind this war, and even though we look at the
immense waste, especially in the beginning, we are reminded through the
rest of the movie that the cause they are fighting for is just. They
are fighting an oppressive power that intends to enslave the world and
as such they are fighting for a noble cause. Even though the cause may
be noble, we are reminded that this war brought about an immense waste
of life.The violence was graphic at the beginning but as the movie draws near
to the end the violence becomes more glorified. The scene that comes to
mind is when the soldiers on the tank are shot to pieces with the
chaingun. This scene, though graphic and probably realistic, is still,
to me, glorified.Purpose is another theme in this movie. The purpose of the mission is
to rescue one young man, and throughout the mission they are
complaining that they are not helping the war progress. Tom Hanks talks
about how when he loses a man he thinks of the thousands of lives that
he has saved, but there is an ominous feeling that there is no point to
this mission but to save a pathetic little kid; thus it is ironic that
when they do find Private Ryan, he refuses to leave his post because
they hold one of the only two bridges that Rommel can bring his tanks
across to repel the Allied landings.Salvation is another theme that runs through this movie. Unfortunately
it is salvation by works. When Ryan is saved, Hanks says to him, "earn
it," suggesting that he must now pay back in good deeds for what Hanks
has done for him. Then fifty years later he asks his wife (in front of
a large family) if he has been good, to which his wife replies, "Yes".
This I feel is quite irritating because it suggests that we can earn
our salvation, which is not possible. Paying back bad deeds with good
is like paying off a loan with a credit card, it simply gets you
nowhere. Our sin is so bad and twisted that there is no way we can earn
our way into God's good books. Instead we must rely upon what he has
done for us, and that is punished his son Jesus instead of us and by
trusting this we will be forgiven for what we have done.Saving Private Ryan, I think, has a lot of potential, but unfortunately
it falls down in a number of places. I found that the end was very
disappointing especially when it seemed to be building up to some very
thought provoking ends. Steven Spielburg has the potential to make to
earth shattering movies, but he seems to always fall back onto
Hollywood sensationalism.(The low rating was on the principle that it won too many Oscars,
taking them away from movies that really deserved them.)

******
13 June 2013
2
It's hard to criticize good intentions to make a war movie about D Day
but the violence was horrible and it was too close up. In the end it
didn't give a good picture of the landings just too much close up
carnage with the bullets and the blood. The German killing the soldier
slowly at the end is just too much.The story to find Private Ryan is kind of irritating and it's just such
a waste of effort - so many for 1 person.The acting is alright. Although Tom Hanks looks like he'd rather be
elsewhere. And Matt Damon is a bit too perky.Give me a war movie from the 50s to 80s instead over this any day. This
one leaves you with a sick feeling.

******
16 June 2012
8
You may be thinking "oh damn, just another over patriotic American
being well...patriotic" but no, that's not why I'm here.CONCERNING 'OVER PATRIOTISM':If you're not from America then yes I see where you're coming from if
you say the movie is 'too American'. Well, it IS an American war movie,
so expect patriotism. As I go through the list of reviews for this movie, almost ALL of the
reviews from people who say they're from the US, boast about how great
they think the movie is. On the other hand, people from other countries
(mainly European) boast that it's too American. For example, the movie
starts with the waving American flag and ends with it. It also only
shows American soldiers, totally excluding British and Canadian
soldiers. Well, the story is about American soldiers looking for, well,
an American soldier. So you can expect to see mainly US army men.And yes I do also understand manly other Allied countries played
important roles in WWII. Of course the US could not have fought this
war alone. At the same time, you should allow the movie to be
patriotic. Sorry if Europeans are offended but I have to say it: if it
weren't for the United States, Europe would have had a much different
fate. So in a sense, you could say that America saved Europe. So please let it be patriotic. The US gave a lot for this war, even in
a continent it wasn't in. Europe wasn't even where a majority of
American soldiers fought and died. It was the Pacific, against Japan.CONCERNING THE MOVIE ITSELF:Well now that I've got that done, I may as well talk about the movie
quality itself. Let me just tell you I thought it was great. The first
moments on D-Day at Omaha Beach were gritty, realistic, and tense.The rest of the movie wasn't as great, just soldiers looking for Ryan.The ending I thought was good and very emotional. 8/10

******
23 October 2011
10
The opening 25 minutes of this film are without a doubt some of the
most intense, graphic and gruelling moments I've ever had to sit
through. You'll never be able to look at another Hollywood war movie
the same way again after you've witnessed the intensity of the landing
rafts approaching Omaha beach, watching the men on board puking,
feeling the tautness of their nerves, and shaking with them. And when
they reach the beach and the doors come down, the fighting - or
massacre, which would be a more appropriate term for what happens here
- begins. This was D-Day on the Normandy beaches, particularly at
Omaha, where about 3,000 American soldiers were killed that day. Tom
Hanks plays Captain Miller of the 2nd Ranger Battlion, who lands on
shore with his men and after a few minutes pinned down in the sand and
water, it becomes apparent that the only way to tackle the objective is
through sheer power in numbers as they run for the German lines. This
is terrifying, as men drop down screaming all around him as we watch
the carnage through his eyes. When 'the longest day' is over, and over
the next two weeks the Americans move steadily inland, Captain Miller
receives orders to take a small squad of soldiers way behind American
lines into the French countryside to find a Private James Ryan, who
parachuted in with the 501st Airbourne Division. The paratroopers are
scattered throughout Normandy, unorganised and lost, and Miller and his
men have to locate just one, to send him home, as his three brothers
have been killed in action. Having watched "Saving Private Ryan" about
eight times now, I can safely come to the conclusion that this is the
most realistic war film ever made, in terms of how it portrays combat.
I've never seen any other war film to portray combat in such realism
and brutality that it made me squirm and realise just how pointless and
futile war is. The massive waste of life during the first half an hour
just sums it up, as men are killed before they can even move onto the
beach. Tom Hanks is absolutely superb as Captain Miller, and he's
backed by equally superb performances from Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns,
Barry Pepper, Adam Goldberg, Vin Diesel, Giovani Ribisi and Matt Damon.
In my opinion, this is the best film Steven Spielberg has ever made.
The first twenty minutes are intense, but the last twenty minutes are
equally as gruelling, and the ending is powerful and satisfying. After
witnessing the Normandy landings here, I'll never be able to take "The
Longest Day" and "The Big Red One" seriously ever again. Winner of 5
Oscars, it could be said that it was robbed of Best Picture, but I
won't get into that here. "Saving Private Ryan" is a masterpiece that
should be seen by everyone. If not for it's story, then just for the
shocking, realistic combat sequences, that needless to say get us as
close to war without witnessing it that any of us can possibly get.

******
18 September 2011
10
EDITEDSteven Spielberg directed this powerful, realistic re-creation of
WWII's D-day invasion and the immediate aftermath. The story opens with
a prologue in which a veteran brings his family to the American
cemetery at Normandy, and a flashback then joins Capt. John Miller (Tom
Hanks) and GIs in a landing craft making the June 6, 1944, approach to
Omaha Beach to face devastating German artillery fire. This mass
slaughter of American soldiers is depicted in a compelling,
unforgettable 24-minute sequence. Miller's men slowly move forward to
finally take a concrete pillbox. On the beach littered with bodies is
one with the name "Ryan" stenciled on his backpack. Army Chief of Staff
Gen. George C. Marshall (Harve Presnell), learning that three Ryan
brothers from the same family have all been killed in a single week,
requests that the surviving brother, Pvt. James Ryan (Matt Damon), be
located and brought back to the United States. Capt. Miller gets the
assignment, and he chooses a translator, Cpl. Upham (Jeremy Davis),
skilled in language but not in combat, to join his squad of right-hand
man Sgt. Horvath (Tom Sizemore), plus privates Mellish (Adam Goldberg),
Medic Wade (Giovanni Ribisi), cynical Reiben (Edward Burns) from
Brooklyn, Italian-American Caparzo (Vin Diesel), and religious
Southerner Jackson (Barry Pepper), an ace sharpshooter who calls on the
Lord while taking aim. Having previously experienced action in Italy
and North Africa, the close-knit squad sets out through areas still
thick with Nazis. After they lose one man in a skirmish at a bombed
village, some in the group begin to question the logic of losing more
lives to save a single soldier. The film's historical consultant is
Stephen E. Ambrose, and the incident is based on a true occurrence in
Ambrose's 1994 bestseller D-Day: June 6, 1944.Starring, Tom Hanks, Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies, Vin
Diesel , Adam Goldberg , Barry Pepper , Giovanni Ribisi , Matt Damon ,
Dennis Farina , Ted Danson , Harve Presnell , Dale Dye , Bryan Cranston
, David Wohl , Paul Giamatti , Ryan Hurst , Harrison Young , Max
Martini , Dylan Bruno.Directed by my all time favorite, Steven Spielberg.Nominated for much deserving 11 Oscars, while winning 5 which includes
Best Director, Cinematography, Editing, Sound and Sound
effects/Editing. while the other six nominations were for Best Picture,
Lead Actor Tom Hanks, Original Screenplay, Art Direction, Make Up and
original Score. i thought it also deserved Best Picture.now this is the movie that gives you a serious shock when you see it,
beware because you might nit be able to complete this movie. i saw this
movie when i was young from the part where they are ordered to find
Pvt. Ryan so i missed the beginning, the epic beginning but still there
were some violent fights throughout the movie. i decided to watch this
movie again today.yes this is one of the very best war movies, one of my all time
favorites and one of the best movies ever made. i may not be able to
call it the best war movie ever but i certainly will call it the most
realistic depiction of war. this is another war movie from Steven
Spielberg, but this time actual on field war. it is set during the
invasion of Normandy in World War II. the film is a fiction account of
four brothers, four sons of Agnes Allison of Port Carbon, Pennsylvania.
The brothers were killed in the American Civil War but the writer
decided to include that story into World War II scenario.the opening sequence has to be one of the most memorable sequences in
the history of motion Picture, the intensity of those 27 minutes is
indescribable in words, shocking, intense, chilling, realistic, gory, a
torture in fact. it depicts the Omaha beachhead assault of June 6,
1944. after that, seven other men along with Capt. John sets out to
find Pvt. Ryan and during there are some fight scenes too but the
opening was a horror a scary nightmare. and i am not saying it was
awful, it was realistic in a way no one ever did and i more than
appreciate Spielberg for it. you see that is exactly what happens.Tom Hanks gave another brilliant performance. i would call it his best
Non-Oscar winning performance. he was just brilliant as Captain.
greatly done. and overall every other supporting cast gave some pretty
good performances like, Edward Burns, Tom Sizemore, Jeremy Davies, Vin
Diesel , Adam Goldberg , Barry Pepper , Giovanni Ribisi , Matt Damon.
really emotional, strong and good performances. but Hanks was the one
which actually was pitch perfect. Matt Damon in a small role leaves an
impact on you.excellent daring direction from Spielberg, many people still may think
it was overdone or something. but i loved it. he deserved the awards he
got for it. Screenplay was mindblowing. editing was nice.
cinematography, art direction and Score were really good. effects and
sounds along with make up design was something you will really like.
camera movements were like so real, like we are in the middle of a war
scene with live broadcast. technically spot on.this whole experience was just epic, intense and very sad for me. a
mindblowing cinematic experience. a classic. excellent movie.

******
3 September 2011
10
easily one of the best movies of the last 100 years hand down. This
classic contains the best opening 10-20 minutes you will ever see in
movie history. The ending of this movie is fairly intense as well.
Right through out this movie there are graphic war violence on a scale
not ever seen in movies and probably not ever again in history, for
this i praise Mr. Spielberg for bring to life what it may have been
like for the solders of WW2. This movie with out a doubt should not be
watched by children or people who can not stand blood or graphic
violence, but still should be seen by everyone at one stage of there
life or another. THIS MUST BE WATCHED BY EVERYBODY

******
20 October 2010
10
Simply the best movies i'v ever seen.......Hanks lived up to expectations n even more... The graphics were awesome
n the screenplay too along with the story..the 1st 25 mins just took my breath away n it was just the beginning of
what just unfolded as a spectacular movie....i just felt i was in the battle field every time the action took
place...this movie worth watching again n again, at least 10 tyms.....i once played a PC game "medal of honor" n there was a stage "omaha
beach" n while watching this movie it felt like m also in that beach
taking cover frm those machine guns.....ufff what a movie...just watch it to believe it.....

******
26 September 2010
10
According to many people, Steven Spielberg's Saving Private Ryan is one
of the best war films ever made. They are absolutely correct. This film
won several Oscars and it deserved them.Saving Private Ryan is a perfect example of a film that accurately
captures the horrors of war.The film opens with an impressive recreation of the battle on Omaha
Beach. The scene wastes no time in showing us just how horrifying and
chaotic the battle really was.The rest of the plot focuses on the search for Private James Francis
Ryan (Matt Damon), a young paratrooper who landed somewhere behind
enemy lines. He has three brothers who were all killed in action, and
the military decides he should get sent home. Captain John H. Miller
(Tom Hanks) is chosen to lead the search for the young private. The film is simply brilliant. The acting's excellent,the story is well
written, and it manages to brilliantly depict how horrifying and tragic
war can be.

******
15 April 2010
8
After discovering that three of his brothers have been killed in
battle, the War Department orders a group of soldiers to "save" Private
Ryan and send him home to his mother. This act creates a fair amount of
conflict, and from there the story really picks up.Steven Spielberg, while a fine director, often becomes sentimental and
smarmy. This is no exception. But for the most part, the battles are
fierce, the wounds are bloody and the death toll is high. Considered by
many to be the greatest of all war films, it easily ranks up there in
my book.What I loved most about this film? The casting of Nathan Fillion and
Jeremy Davies. Oh my, I can never get enough of those two gentlemen.
Beyond that, the realism and the brutality shines through. I appreciate
that the Americans executed surrendering Germans (and on one occasion,
Czechs) rather than took them prisoner. Is it right? No. But it's
realistic.

******
9 April 2010
7
There is probably an exciting 90-minute movie lurking inside this never
ending war epic about the search for a soldier. However, in an attempt
to make a war movie to end all war movies, Spielberg did not leave
anything on the cutting room floor, releasing the film with a running
time of 17 hours or so. The much-admired battle scene depicting the
Normandy landing is well done but what's the point of having it go on
for 20 minutes, with gratuitous shots of severed limbs and guts
literally spilling out? OK, war is hell, but many other films have made
this point far more eloquently and succinctly. The acting is pretty
good, although the characters are all war movie stereotypes.

******
23 March 2010
8
"Saving Private Ryan" is everything you expect it to be and more. I
left the cinema totally numb after this experience, not knowing how I
really felt about the movie. All I was thinking was why? Do we really
need a another movie about the atrocities of war? Perhaps I just don't
want to know the truth or see the reality of this horror that mankind
seems determined to continually perpetuate. The heart of man is evil
continually. Even more frightening than this is the fact that the
powers of the world who have set their minds to war and murder to
maintain control would not even think twice after viewing this film.For Spielberg this film was evidently a lot more than just a revelation
of World War II. This was a message from son to father, a call for
approval from a boy to his dad. The fact that Arnold Spielberg was
overcome with emotion may indicate that his boy did good this time.
Steven is as masterfully in control of this film as he was with
"Schindler's List". I still feel the earlier film is his dramatic best,
yet it is difficult to fault "Private Ryan" in its execution. It is
only its concept that I am still battling with.Tom Hanks plays yet another all American, this time the captain who is
ordered to take a small band of men to find Ryan. His performance was
strong, yet I was not truly blown away as I expected to be. Perhaps I
have come to expect too much of the great Mr. Hanks. The support cast
are also intense, and include Giovanni Ribisi, Vin Diesel, Adam
Goldberg and Barry Pepper. Special mention goes to Tom Sizemore as
Sargeant Horvath, Jeremy Davies as the timid Corporal Upham and Matt
Damon, credible as the last of the Ryan brothers. Ted Danson and Dennis
Farina drop in as senior officers.Spielberg has again teamed with "Schindler's" cinematographer Janusz
Kaminski, and the results are astounding. The opening sequence is
particularly breathtaking. John Williams is of course the only choice
for original score. In this impacting picture, I barely noticed his
composition. That probably indicates how good it was. Art direction and
set decoration are both awesome.The enormity of the film cannot be denied, neither I suppose can its
importance. With all my reservations, it is one of the first - if not
the first - movies not to gloss over World War II. It is for this
reason I must recommend all those who can handle it go and see it; and
it is also why I find it so hard to mark this film down.Sunday, December 13, 1998 - Bairnsdale CinemasThere are two ways to look at "Saving Private Ryan". Technicallly and
philosophically. Let me address both briefly.Technically the film has few faults. Certainly, cinematography, sound
effects and sets are all astounding. You cannot be anything but blown
away by the opening sequence. Spielberg shows again he is a master
craftsman, able to bring any vision from within his imagination to the
silver screen. He takes this simple story of an unusual rescue mission
in the middle of World War II, and turns it into an unforgettable movie
experience. Tom Hanks is amazing as Captain Miller, playing with
perfect understatement the weary commanding officer who must lead his
band of eight men in search of Private Ryan. In impressive support is
Tom Sizemore, fantastic as the tough sarge who backs Miller all the
way. An excellent support cast back these two compellingly.Philosophically, I have argued before that this film was brilliant yet
unnecessary; that we have seen enough graphic anti-war films and that
this was one too many. On second viewing, it is very hard to keep this
argument up. Even if we have seen a dozen films such as this, "Saving
Private Ryan" is still a very important film. Why? It shows us the
horror that war is. The waste, the destruction and the total futility
of the whole thing. Why do we keep destroying each other like this?
What is wrong with us? I still argue that "Schindler's List" was a more
important film, and perhaps a better one. This film rates right up
there though.Saturday, January 8, 2000 - Video

******
17 March 2010
10
With its cast , story , visual effects , production and direction
saving private Ryan is an excellent experience to watch. The film
starts in present United States than enters in its main plot of 1944
France at the occasion of d-day. Here Tom hanks along with his juniors
including Tom Sizemore, Edward burns, Berry Pepper , Vin Diesel , and
Giovnanni Ribsi are assigned to a task seek out Pfc James Francis Ryan
and relieve him off the duty to send him home. The reason here is that
he is only surviving son of widow who already lost her older sons in
this war. As a gesture of humanity and sympathy , Chief of Army staff
General George.C.Marshall himself ordered the search and transfer of
private Ryan back to homeland. When Tom Hanks and his fellow comrades
begin their search for their objective they had to go through hell on
some places , in it they lost some of their own few men. The most
compelling scene was the death of Giovanni Ribsi , the way he acted in
that scene was so much disturbing but also showed his remarkable skill
to portray the dying man. After a hectic long tense journey into the
heart of France they spotted Pfc Ryan played here by Matt Damon ,told
him the gruesome news of his bros death, but he refuses to leave , he
believes that his fellow officers are also sons of other people ,they
are also his brothers in arms, why he is only one to be left out of
here. Then the team decided to stay but inside Capt Miller (Tom Hanks)
had made a pledge not to let Pfc Ryan(Damon) to be harmed and left
alone in harms way. Being a war movie lover i am very impressed by this
film, if you are , you ll also be moved , its 3 hr long but very very
good in the making and contains a strong plot. One of the best war
movie of all time perhaps that 's why it finished with 5 Oscars
although Thin Red Line was also competing against it with a huge
inventory of cast & crew.

******
9 January 2010
10
This movie totally amazed me. The cast was very good, and Tom Hanks
once again amazed me. He gives an even better performance than in
Forrest Gump. The sound is clear and realistic, and it makes the
battles seem even more intense. The 2 main battles are very violent,
and the violence is very realistic looking. This movie is definitely
not for young viewers, but is amazing nonetheless. An emotional and and
unforgettable experience, with touches of humor here & there. This
movie just shows you how horrible and cruel this war was, and how many
lives were lost. This may be my favorite movie ever, and this is the
movie that really got me interested in war movies, such as We Were
Soldiers. A highly recommended movie, even for people who don't like
violent movies, this has an involving and original story, and is
just...great! This movie definitely deserves the five Academy Awards it
won. See it. Love it. See it again.

******
5 January 2010
10
saving private Ryan is easily the best war movie that I have ever seen,
(and believe me, I have seen a lot). While it is very good, I will say
one thing: it is very bloody. I really don't think you should should
show it to your kids. But, if you are an adult, then this is a
must-see, it is pure awesome, and in my opinion, better than platoon or
even Apocalypse now. Everything about this movie is pretty much perfect. It has action,
drama, and REALLY good acting and directing. This was WAY better than
Shakespeare in love and should have won best picture and best acting.please for your own sake, go see it10/10

******
4 December 2009
7
Surely this movie presents some of the most believable, most graphic
and most gruesome scenes of war ever shown on film. The opening
depiction of the storming of Omaha Beach on D-Day and the closing
battle as American soldiers desperately try to hold a strategically key
bridge against a German attack are brilliantly and soberingly
portrayed, and if there was nothing else in this movie worth watching,
those battle scenes in and of themselves are a powerful lesson about
the horrors of war.The battle scenes serve as an envelope around the main story - the
search for Private James Ryan. As the movie begins we learn that Ryan's
three brothers have all been killed in battle, and he's the only one of
his mother's sons left. Gen. George Marshall (quoting from an eloquent
letter written by Abraham Lincoln to a mother who lost 5 sons in the
Civil War) orders Ryan found so that he could be returned home before
being killed himself, and a squad under Capt. Mitchell (Tom Hanks) is
assigned to the task. Believability is a bit of an issue here. I doubt
that in the middle of a great war soldiers would be taken away from
battle and assigned to this task. Having said that, the very lack of
believability gives the search for Ryan it's meaning, and serves as the
movie's moral or philosophical purpose. The constant question before
the viewer is: how many lives are we willing to sacrifice to save one?
There's no answer to that question, but it remains front and centre as
even the soldiers assigned to find Ryan increasingly resent the
assignment and question its value. The constant challenge I found
myself faced with was how I would have felt if I were assigned to find
a soldier in such circumstances so that he could be sent home while I
stayed to fight a war - and possibly die? Thought-provoking.Still, I didn't think this reached the heights of greatness that some
have given it. Thought-provoking it may have been, but between the
great battle scenes there were also long stretches with little
happening, and overall the movie was too long at more than an hour and
a half. It's a movie that's certainly worth watching - but only once. I
wouldn't want to see it again. 7/10

******
17 November 2009
10
From the opening notes of John Williams' somber and tear-jerking music
score, followed by an old man wandering sadly through a World War II
cemetery, and then to the deservedly infamous twenty-minute recreation
of the invasion of Normandy on D-Day, and straight through to the end
of the picture, it's adamantly clear that Steven Spielberg's epic
masterpiece "Saving Private Ryan" is not just another war film on the
shelves in the history of cinema. Coupled with Oliver Stone's
"Platoon", this is perhaps the single greatest cinematic take on the
nature of war ever made.Based on a true story, "Saving Private Ryan" stars Tom Hanks as a World
War II squad captain who is given the treacherous assignment to take
seven other soldiers and go behind enemy lines in search of a missing
paratrooper named Ryan whose brothers have been killed in action. And
as noble as a mission as that sounds, the reaction from the soldiers is
exactly what it would be in real life: we'll obey our orders, but is
one man worth risking the lives of eight? That's the spirit of "Saving
Private Ryan" and that's the spirit of war itself. Gone are the days
where war was portrayed as like some kind of an end-of-season
tournament and when soldiers were portrayed as being like a rowdy and
pretentious baseball team on their great skirmish. Instead of
glamorizing violence and giving us all-American heroes, "Saving Private
Ryan" depicts war as what it is: a harrowing, traumatizing,
unforgettably bad, soul-corrupting experience. The effect war and
violence has on people is personified perfectly in a line given by
Hanks about halfway through the film: "For every man I kill, the
farther away from home I feel." The movie opens up with a twenty-minute
battle sequence of which the likes have never been on the screen. We
don't just see people being shot to death, we see explosions that send
mutilated bodies flinging through the air, we see soldiers lying on the
ground mortally wounded, spending their last breaths crying for their
mothers and wanting to go home, and the Atlantic shoreline becomes red
with blood. There is nothing glamorous or exciting about a scene like
this. Rather, the reaction the audience gives is hung jaws, wide eyes,
and a new appreciation for what our soldiers did in the call of duty
and how lucky any of them were to live to see home again.Another strength of the movie is that it does not only depict war as
being horrifying, but it also makes neither heroes out of its
protagonists or personifications of evil out of the enemy. As I
mentioned earlier, the soldiers led by Tom Hanks are not cheerful,
joke-throwing boys. They are cynical, rundown, exhausted, and
pessimistic who spend a great deal of their time not charging out into
enemy fire and dying in the blaze of glory, but cowering behind rubble.
And that's the exact same of the German soldiers portrayed in the film.
After all, they were drafted into a war as well. If it were not for the
war, these men killing each other may have otherwise been best friends.
In a way, the movie is not about the mission to rescue Private Ryan who
is neither seen nor heard until well into the movie's running time, but
about the very experience of trying to survive just one day through a
war."Saving Private Ryan" is not only a technical triumph, but an
intellectual one as well. Apart from showing us what war is really like
and the effect it really has one people and nations, the movie creates
three-dimensional human beings out of its characters, the story is very
well-constructed, the dialogue by screenwriter Robert Rodat is
first-class, and the acting, of course, top-notch. The combination of
these elements gives us a representation of war that we can believe.
Now when people think of war, they think of men lying on the ground
dying and not grinning heroes dodging bullets as if life or death is
merely a video game and they can try again if they fail the first time.This is one of Steven Spielberg's very best films. It ranks up with
films such as "Jaws", "Schindler's List", "Close Encounters of the
Third Kind", and "E.T. the Extra Terrestrial" as some of the greatest
and most important films ever made. Now "Saving Private Ryan" may be
too gritty and vulgar for the tastes of some people, but I think it
should be required viewing for anybody going into the service or even
thinking of the like. Because war is not a baseball game. And it's not
something anybody wants to experience more than once, if at all.

******
27 May 2009
9
I have never understood Hollywood's love affair with Tom Hanks. He's no
more than ordinary both in appearance and as an actor. Perhaps that's
what they like; the stamp of the common man. Well for me, he's a
turn-off. Him, Costner and Cage; I can't help taking points away when
any of 'em show up.All that said; this movie opens pretty quickly into the most
spellbindingly visceral battle sequence ever shown on film. It really
is a tour-de-force. The withering German machine-gun fire wiping out
man after man before they've even set foot ashore is terrible and
shocking to behold. Truly those weapons made flesh all but obsolete in
battle. I am not a Spielberg fan either. His delight in maudlin
sentimentality - or 'schamltz' as it's called - knows no boundaries.
Neither does his childish irony. But when it comes to large set-piece
special effects, he has no master. The few minutes of beach landing are
alone worth the price of the DVD. It's as close as you can get to the
real thing and still leave the cinema alive. I'm told that a group of
vets got to see this movie at a private showing and gave this sequence
a standing ovation. You can't say fairer than that.Afterwards, the story moves on, with Hanks and his remaining squad
looking to find Private Ryan, who is the only surviving son in a family
stricken by war. And here Mr Spielberg falls into his usual routine of
hokey irony. There's a suddenly collapsing wall that reveals Germans on
the other side. There's a German humanely allowed by Hanks to simply
wander free, only to re-emerge as his assassin, there's a case of
mistaken identity that's milked for every silly little nuance
imaginable. And there's a lot more. Like I said; it's often childish.There are other interesting and engaging conflicts, though they pale in
comparison with that full-on intro. There are excellent set-pieces,
authentic gunfire, and believable slaughter. Editing, lighting and all
of the other technical issues are right up to the standard you expect
from Big Stevie. Yet most of the second 2 hours fail to answer that
hellishly vivid beach landing. It's a measure of how strong the one is,
and how weak the other. We are left with a slow, flagging, and largely
forgettable odyssey.Highly recommended for that opening assault. That's where my 9 stars
have gone. The rest is simply in at the price, with Spielberg's
juvenility and Hanks's irritating voice for good measure.I would like to see a movie about WW1 treated with the same ruthless
candour. The casualties of Omaha and The Somme scarcely withstand
comparison.

******
21 April 2009
10
Never in my life have I ever seen a more beautifully written film. I've
watched this film 20 times over and it still touches my heart. I always
look for violence in a movie, because I believe it shows reality and
this movie does just that with it's gut wrenching brutality. I tell
people who haven't seen that they need to watch it A.S.A.P. Not just
because of the violence, I'm not like that, but by the completely
accurate point of view of the soldiers during and even after the war.I am one of those people that is impossible to make cry, and folks this
movie made me bawl my eyes out. The ending Tom Hanks scene is so
stunning and heart-wrenchingly sad that I couldn't bear it, yet I still
watched the ending. That scene is also surprising considering that the
beginning threw me of guard with the old man in the opening scene, I
thought he was Tom Hanks. (Sorry for the spoilers) Also, Giovanni
Ribisi must be credited for his character's emotional role especially
in the church seen when he talks about his mother.Now to the violence, people I was 13 when I saw this film. Do your self
a favor if you are a parent, if your child is under 13 do not let them
watch it. There are even worse violent movies such as "The Thing." But
the difference in this movie is that what happens to the soldiers more
than likely really happened to them, mostly the beginning on Omaha
Beach. I, personally, think the violence was completely necessary
because we needed to show what our soldiers fought for and what they
gave in order for us to live on as the ruling country of the world.
God-bless America and it's men.The language in the film is quite foul, but hey what would you be
saying if you were being shot at by 20-cals? I also think the swears
were necessary. Why? Well, I believe that swears bring out emotion and
how you feel about situations you are in. I mean don't get me wrong if
your child swears, by all means put soap in his mouth or whatever you
do. But in movies, swears give us an understanding about the
stand-point of the characters. It's also pretty funny to boot. The
jokes in this are hilarious.Anyway, if you are looking for the greatest movie ever made, watch
this. Because I don't think I'll ever find a movie close to being as
good as this. Thanks to Spielberg, Tom Hanks, and thanks mostly to
those who gave their lives to keep us standing strong with the freedom
we have rightfully earned. You will not be forgotten, ever.

******
24 March 2009
10
Steven Spielberg's 'Saving Private Ryan' is not only the best from
1998, but even the best of the decade gone by, and easily one of the
best films of all-time. Spielberg is the amongst best filmmakers ever! The way he's directed
this epic is truly astounding. The Legendary storyteller keeps you
gripped from start to end and the icing on the cake is all-time best
Cinematography by Janusz Kaminski. My salute to the entire cast and
crew of this film. Performance Wise: Tom Hanks is stupendous. Tom Sizemore is excellent.
Matt Damon is fantastic. Edward Burns is fabulous. Givoanni Ribisi is
in top from. Vin Diesel, not known then, is good. Adam Goldberg is
first-rate. Dennis Farina is very good. Others are also good.On the whole, 'Saving Private Ryan' is an outstanding piece of cinema.
Grab this you if haven't immediately. Two Big Thumbs Up for this
Box-Office Blockbuster and Oscar Winner.

******
17 March 2009
9
Simply put, this is a flawless war movie. Spielberg created a set that
looks like the actual French battlefield of World War II. The beginning
of the movie shows the Allied invasion of Normandy Beach on D-Day, and
it is very hard to watch. Men die and are reduced to gory heaps in the
first seconds of battle. People who are expecting a Chuck Norris war
movie with a few US soldiers killing hundreds of comical Nazis are
going to be surprised. The film has a fantastic ensemble cast - up
there with films such as Heat and Tombstone. All supporting actors are
given believable characters. No one appears to utter a one-liner and is
never seen again. Movie buffs will find themselves saying, "Hey, I know
that guy!", but it never detracts from the immersion. This is a heavily
pro-American film. It makes little effort to characterize the German
soldiers, but none is needed. Overall, this is my favorite film from
1998, and one of my favorite war movies.

******
20 November 2008
6
This film don't talk of massacre of Americans in the world. SHAME!!
Hiroshima and Nagasaki scream. beautiful film. As to the usual one, the
usual negative comments which Sure Heros that this film had to have a
judgment in this site. In fact reviewers' good part has put a high vote
to the previous episodes. Because this contrast? I know the reason.
Since assumptive reviewers' good part favorably sees the past and as
the past is "better" than the present they have given several credit to
the preceding episodes being still the last episode more explosive and
spectacular. At this point should reject also the old episodes but
there are here two weights and two measure.In fact also cinema
masterpieces have been criticized and denigrated. Good part some
reviewers of this site belong to the very bad reviewers. Better think
separately with its head.

******
1 October 2008
6
Saving Private Ryan is an inspirational film filled with dyanamic
battle-scenes, drama and action. During the opening scene into the
storyline there is a fantastic 20-minute depiction of one bloodiest
battles of WWII fought at Omaha Beach. Not only is it gruesome in its
depiction of the thoughts of these soldiers who fought during this war
but it also has an subplot filled with the notion of brotherhood. Tom
Hanks performance was phenomenal as well as the rest of the cast which
includes such notable names as: Edward Burns, Tom Seizmore, etc. Their
performances work simultenously to make you believe in this mission:
saving one man. The storyline is simple, Captain John Miller (Tom
Hanks) has been assigned a mission from the General George C. Marshall.
The mission's objective: Finding Private James Francis Ryan from Iowa,
whose 3 other brothers have been K.I.A. (Killed in Action). Conflict:
Private Ryan is somewhere in Normandy. Where? No one exactly knows.
Like Captain Miller says: "It's like finding a needle in a stack of
needles." Yet as they embark on this mission they are met with some
obstacles along the way. Losing men as they go, many start to question
the value of their mission and if saving one man is worth the lives of
many others. It comes to a culminating end, one that might leave you
with a tear or two. If you love war movies, drama, or like the period
itself, I highly recommend you go out and watch this movie.

******
27 September 2008
6
"Saving Private Ryan" is a movie that is truly epic in scale and stars
a huge array of big names, some of whom became even bigger after the
film, (eg. Vin Diesel). The film opens with the harrowing D-Day
landings, following Captain Miller and his men. The unit is given the
mission of finding and getting Private James Ryan out of the war. His 3
brothers have all been killed and it has been decided that 3 or 4 sons
is enough sacrifice for one mother to make. A lot of the depth of the
movie comes with the relationships between Miller and those around him.
There are some truly light hearted moments, such as the pool that is
running to find out what Miller did before the war. However, a lot is
very deep and touches on some issues that other movies seem to gloss
over. One is a conversation in which Miller mentions that over 90 men
have died under his command and the way in which he copes with that
personally. The movie does not glorify war, but shows it in its hideous
randomness and brutality. Though there a more violent films out there,
such as We Were Soldiers (Widescreen Edition), "Saving Private Ryan"
definitely does not gloss over anything. This is a profoundly moving
movie, and one that I have seen more than once. Every viewing is
moving. It is simply a great story, well-acted, well-directed and
engrossing.

******
22 August 2008
7
I found this movie highly disappointing. I was expecting something
different. Well, If you like special effects, then you will definitely
enjoy it. But if not -and that is my case, I have to admit- you will
most likely find it boring and too long. The first thirty minutes of
the movie are just a huge display of special effects showing the
development of one of the most important battles during the II WW. Yes,
it is very well-made but this half an hour doesn't add anything at all
to the movie. I am still wondering what is the goal of so much time
devoted to that battle- I think the best answer is: an excuse for
displaying all the special effects. Once those minutes had finished, I
hoped the rest of the movie would be something different, and it looked
like that was going to happen, but not for a lot of time. When
something interesting was finally going on and there were some
interesting dialogs, once again the same: more shooting, more noise and
more deaths... Anyway, my vote was a 7: apart from all those long
unnecessary scenes, the movie is quite good: some interesting dialogs,
as I said, an interesting plot and, above all, some great performances,
especially from Tom Hanks.

******
30 June 2008
10
In every aspect of this film, from the writing by Robert Rodat to the
production of every scene, there is mastery. Saving Private Ryan has
multiple WWII scenes that although not all historically correct, all
outstanding. I watched this movie with my fiancé and we both were
extremely impressed with the whole movie. The opening 27 min. Omaha
Beach scene proved well awarded the best opening scene as well as the
whole movie with the 5 Oscars, 50 something other awards won and
another 50 something nominations for various awards. The story line of
a mission to save a fellow comrade is one that hits so close to home
for many families these days and it really gives them hope that if
there loved one is still over in Iraq, they might too be saved. From
the actors like Tom Hanks and sexy Matt Damon, to the small details in
every scene (or big like the 40,000 gallons of fake blood for the
opening scene), it was just a mind blowing movie that really makes you
appreciate everyone fighting for our freedom.

******
21 May 2008
10
Steven Spielberg goes back to WWII with this film, which is about a
group of soldiers who risk their lives in action to save one: Private
James Francis Ryan. The scenery in the invasion sequences are so
horrific, that it's shocking to think that this stuff actually happens.
Which it does. I couldn't watch it without flinching, crying, and being
afraid of things like that.I pray that there won't be a WWIII, because all war is hell. I don't
even support the war in Iraq. I want our troops out of there. They
don't deserve to have their insides blown out, regardless of what the
war is about. It's also why I don't play war video games. I don't think
that war is a thing to be glorified in games. I think that it's a
horrible thing that should have never existed.So, to finish, I would like to thank Steven Spielberg for opening my
eyes to war and how war should not be glorified, it should be looked
down upon.

******
6 May 2008
10
My grandpa actually landed on Normandy and told me all about it. He
landed on Fox Red sector. He told me the true face of war until I
literally saw it flash before my eyes. The opening D-Day scene is
horrific but detailed in a great manner of graphic violence and gore.
Unless you are not one of them (as I can) who can handle such strong
intensity, this movie is not for you. It is a great movie and shows
that there is nothing that should be glorified about war. Saving
Private Ryan shows how 8 men will risk their lives for 1 after Private
James Ryans brothers, Peter, Sean, and Daniel have been killed in
action and Captain John H. Miller from the 2nd Rangers battalion and
his squad is sent to find James and send him home before he is KIA
along with the rest of his brothers. I give it a 10 out of 10 for a
great story line and it even loosely is based on the true story of the
Niland Brothers. It has won over 5 academy awards and on over 150 10
best lists. This movie is great for a WWII movie collection.

******
28 April 2008
10
This is by far best WWII movie i have ever seen and in general on of
the best movies. It is thrilling emotional funny and shows all the
folly and tragedy of war. Within the first 5 minutes of the movie there
are scenes of intense realistic combat. This movie is truly a work of
art. Everything about it is real. The bloodshed, the style of guns, the
talk,the gore, absolutely everything. Except for the storyline, which i
won't go into, everything about this movie is 100% realistic and
accurate. Not once in the movie did I say to myself "that wouldn't
happen in real life." The action scenes are incredible. You'll see
classic WWII weapons being used like the BAR, M1 Garand, classic
bayonets etc. The violence is so real and that often you will wonder
whether or not the actors are actually dead. This movie shows all forms
of combat. Guns, flamethrowers, sniping, tanks, planes, and of course
several sequences of up close and personal/bloody.The scenery may very well be the best in annyyy movie I've seen, not
just war movies. While watching I was shocked to think how much time
was devoted to this. Crumbling buildings, destroyed tanks, dead cows,
cratered land; everything. Every step of the movie you will be thinking
that they went back in time to those areas, because it will be so hard
to believe that most of it was filmed in a studio.This movie won a deserving Oscar for cinematography, and for good
reason. I can only surmise how many camera's were used in making this
film. Because of professional cinematography, the action doubles.
Everything is done so well. Explosions are shown from several angles at
such a fast pace that you'll once again think that this must actually
be happening.The acting is great in this movie. Most of the soldiers act like
typical grunts who enjoy seeing a German killed, while show true
sympathy and sorrow if/when any of their comrades die or during a
breakdown when all the fighting gets to them.To cut this review short, because there are about a dozen other topics
to touch upon this incredible movie, this is a true classic, great
drama, terrific directing and keeps you involved and not bored during
this 2hour and 35 minute movie.

******
24 February 2008
10
To see a masterpiece likes this lets me know that there really are
great movies out there. Not just a movie that's spat out, millions of
dollars wasted on a movie that has no purpose.This movie has a great purpose. War is hell, it should be prevented.
Not just that but many more that can be seen throughout watching this
thrilling movie. If only I got to see it with surround sound and HD, I
watched it at home on my bad television, but I want to let everybody
know the special effects in this movie surpass many movies from present
day. Sound is top notch, acting is brilliant, the camaraderie seen
between the men makes it seem like a real battle field. Everything
about this movie is so real. It's as if you were on the battlefield
yourself. This movie is not like any other war movie where the story starts off
with the troop at home, then getting deployed, then mindless scenes of
battle followed by a predictable finish.This movie started powerful to the deployment of the troops on Omaha
Beach all the way to the end. This movie had great action, internal
conflicts, a plot to find Private Ryan, a story going on back in the
United States. Everything connects in this great piece. This movie is
just breathtaking. I keep repeating it, but when the movie was over, I
was sad it was over, and I would definitely see it ten more times to
witness the sheer brilliance of Steven Spielberg and everybody else who
contributed to this movie.

******
6 February 2008
10
Awesome, Awesome, Awesome! The Greatest movie I have ever seen. The
scene when Cpt.Miller was shot I thought (seriously) that the rest of
the Americans were doomed but then reinforcements arrived, like out of
nowhere. But when my favorite guy, the American sniper, Pvt.Daniel
Jackson was killed in the church tower I was stunned because he was
extremely good and the Americans really needed his help, and that since
he was so good I thought he was going to survive through the whole
movie. Through all and all the movie was really good; well planned,
good acting, and one of the greatest movie visual effects and graphics
I have ever seen. For all you people that liked it good choice, but for
all you people that didn't like it well.........try to make a better
choice. WARNING:This movie is not for weak stomachs!

******
20 July 2006
8
Okay, I think there might be something wrong with me, because I'm the
only one who seems not to like this movie. But I have my reasons.First of all, this movie seems a bit contradictory in its message. Is
it supposed to be antiwar, or are we supposed to be cheering at the
gore? Speaking of gore, they wasted it all in the first battle of the
film, which is also the first scene after the prologue scene. No good
storyteller does that. Since the most graphic images were at the
beginning, most everything else seemed tame in comparison.Secondly, this really isn't Spielberg's best film at all. It moves very
slowly and is full of scenes that try to build characterization but
somehow manage to seem sappy. I'll give him and the screenwriter credit
for trying, however.Also, this is possibly John Williams' worst movie score ever. The music
is the kind you can find in any war movie--it's sort of cheesy and not
at all amazing like many of his other works.Lastly, this movie simply does not move. Maybe it was just me, but it
didn't evoke much of an emotional reaction out of me, and I'm normally
quite an emotional moviegoer.Tom Hanks did a very good acting job, and the others did okay. But too
many of the lines were whispered, or at too low a volume.Maybe it's just me, but this movie didn't move.5/10

******
15 October 2005
7
i love saving private Ryan but i just don't know how re-watchable it
is. i am a total WWII movie nut and this is one of the best but i truly
hate the ending. i feel it is left ambiguous and it truly puts Matt
Damon's character in lose lose situation. i don't want to give anything
away but i feel what hanks character said was not positive or
constructive even if it was meant to be. other than that this movie
kicks butt. it has some of the best war scenes i have ever seen. its
depiction of Normandy and hellish persona taken on by the invading
American troops is both moving and humbling. the character development
is something to truly watch as well. the way we are slowly informed of
each characters past and the timeliness or untimeliness of each death
that occurs just sinks into you and helps to tell a true tale of
heroism and mortality. very well written very well filmed, very well
acted.

******
10 February 2005
9
I guess with the age of video games and virtual reality upon us, it was
only a matter of time for someone to capture the most realistic war
scenes that have ever been depicted in film. The landing and ground
fighting shown in the Normandy invasion literally makes the viewer feel
like they were transported in time and are actually experiencing the
real thing! Tom Hanks is brilliant as a shell-shocked veteran who is
asked to perform a special service. That is to go through enemy
territory and bring back the last surviving son of the Ryan clan. His
other brothers having all recently perished in combat, leaving him the
only remaining son.The movie grips you from the start and there are some well scripted
scenes with a lot of surprises in Hanks search for the last Ryan. You
go through the movie hoping that Hanks will find him soon and be able
to leave the hell of war before his nerves are totally shot.What made this movie even more dramatic is that it is based on a true
story! One of my favorite all-time war movies.

******
30 January 2005
9
In terms of verisimilitude to an actual battlefield, Saving Private
Ryan is without a peer in the history of film. I go back to the 1910s,
Birth of a Nation, which had some panoramic battle scenes, and to
Platoon, which had some credible scenes, to Full Metal Jacket,
Apocalypse Now (which is the closest challenger for realism), Black
Hawk Down, The Big Parade (wonderfully realistic early silent film of
WW One), and many others. None of those takes so much effort and genius
in recreating a probable past, in terms of recreating the war torn
battlefields/villages in the most minute detail. The first 20 minutes
of this film are a landmark by which all other war films will
eventually be measured.Tom Hanks is the emotional anchor for this film, giving us a portrayal
that is sensitive yet firm. He's not of the blood and guts John Wayne
tradition. His character is a thoughtful man who finds himself in a
position to, in his view, do some good in the world by managing this
apocalypse on earth in such a way that it actually saves lives.Spielberg's consistent attention to visual detail and style is what
sets SPR apart. The images are grainy, and rely on blues, greens,
grays, and browns, with scarcely any red or yellow. He creates
battlefield scenery with precision, accuracy, and depth of field.
Wonderful work.Meanwhile, set against this, is a dialogue which can be passively
entertaining at times. The urgent conversations in the battlefield are
most effective. However, some of the more heavy conversations which
take place during the lulls are so poorly thought out, I can scarcely
believe any professional screenwriter could have been associated with
them. This is a recurrent problem.Finally, I guess it couldn't be avoided that a film like this would
attempt to advance allied propaganda. Genreally, the film tries to stay
away from that, and I give it credit, but at other times the propaganda
asserts itself in a subtle way which detracts from the overall effect.
Most Americans and Western Europeans are numb to this, but I notice it
and it disappoints me, although I will reckon that this film does not
lose itself in propaganda. It's just an overtone.

******
5 January 2005
8
Saving Private Ryan has been out for damn near seven years and i just
saw it for the first time yesterday. And i must say it is pretty damn
great. The combat scenes are the best i have seen in any World War II
movie, especially the amazing opening scene on the beaches of Normandy.
They are full of exciting and grisly action and speed along the
three-hour runtime. Ryan is also packed with a great cast who all give
excellent performances especially Tom Sizemore, Edward Burns, and
Jeremy Davies. Heck, even Vin Diesel was good. Yes i said Vin Diesel.
Maybe he just gets bad scripts lately.The only things keeping this from being the best war movie ever is it's
sappy storyline and one-sidedness. Nobody is saying the Nazis are
saints, but their foot soldiers were there for the exact same reasons
the American foot soldiers were. Their stupid leaders sent them there.Saving Private Ryan is still one of the best war movies of all time.
It's explosive action and great acting keeps it interesting throughout
its runtime and it proves that Steven Spielberg can make a darn
entertaining flick. 8/10

******
24 December 2004
9
I still remember seeing this movie for the first time, the opening
scene, where the Allies land on the beach, really grasped my attention,
it also scared me. Just seeing that scene will show anyone what sort of
sacrifices all sorts of people made, and why war really should be the
last resort. The action sequences are unlike any other war movies that
I have seen, and the only thing I have seen that is similar is
"Taegukgi" This movie is highly recommended for anyone(except for young
children). This is one of those movies that you will remember for your
whole life and will be able to view it many times with out ever getting
bored in the process.

******
24 December 2004
10
When Saving Private Ryan first came out I saw it in the movie theater 3
times. This movie has an EXCELLENT cast and it is a great movie to
watch. It was directed so well and the cast of the film is just
amazing. If you are big into WWII, every scene makes you feel like you
are right there with them. I hope all who watch it love it, because it
is an incredible film. I would totally recommend this movie to someone.
Please watch it even just once because I know that you will probably
like it if you are into war movies. Even if you aren't into war movies
this is still a great movie to see because it lets you see what people
are willing to do for their country and their own people.

******
6 April 2004
10
Until I saw "Private Ryan" I thought the best film about World War II
was John Ford and Robert Montgomery's "They were Expendable". Now I can
say that "Private Ryan" is to the European War what "Expendable" was to
the Pacific War. They both convey a common message: that sometimes war
must be fought, that we not shrink from what needs to be done, that we
never forget the sacrifice and, most importantly, that we make
ourselves worthy of that sacrifice.World War II wasn't just something that happened. It was Armageddon, in
which the future of the world was at stake. And that's no exaggeration.
Those who died in the endeavor gave us the right outcome are, to me,
true martyrs, not to religion or patriotism but to humanity itself. I
think this is what both Expendable and Private Ryan are reminding us,
by dramatizing the message, not preaching it.Despite the advances in film-making technology that make "Saving
Private Ryan" a more intense experience than "They were Expendable,"
both are magnificent films which compliment each other. Both have been
given splendid DVD transfers, and it is fascinating to watch them
back-to-back to compare how similar events are portrayed in the idioms
of two different eras. Spielberg has the advantage of being in an era
without the constraints, both technical and political, suffered by
Ford. Unlike Ford, Spielberg is free to add, "And lest we forget  to
bring home the meaning of sacrifice  here's an unvarnished look at
what really happened to those who didn't come back."

******
18 May 2003
10

No.  That is all in the opinion of the viewer.  The AFI can hail "Citizen
Kane" the best movie of all time, but then cast a blind eye towards "Aliens"
in their 100 Thrillers.  Moral: No one is infallible.To be blunt, there are good war movies (Das Boot, Apocalypse Now) and there
are bad ones (almost anything with John Wayne fits here).  Saving Private
Ryan is a good war movie, even great at some points, but once again
Spielberg falls into the "sentimental showman" trap that frequents his
films.  Whether in Empire of the Sun, Schindler's List, or Indiana Jones 3,
he starts trying to evoke an emotional response by trying too hard.  As they
say "the harder you try, the dumber you look."As far as general film quality goes, this movie is superb.  Kaminski's tight
camera angles coupled with the color desaturation gives "Private Ryan" an
almost black-and-white archaic look reminiscent of a WWII documentary.  The
characters look gaunt and pale, enhancing the sickening look of the
movie.Is this better than "Shakespeare in Love"?  Certainly, but not as good as
"Life is Beautiful".  Unfortunately, "The Thin Red Line" does not match up
because Malick winds up making just an art film.  Should Hanks have gotten
the Oscar?  Yes, compared to "Forrest Gump", he is far above that level
here.  Seen one war movie, seen them all.  That's what you should understand before
watching this.  There is no difference between "Platoon", "Full Metal
Jacket", and "All Quiet on the Western Front" compared to this.  They all
have the same characters, the same morals, the same conclusions. 
Bummer.John Williams: someone give the guy a complementary Oscar.  I have yet to
hear a bad composition on his part other than "Midway".  In addition, the
makeup and production design are far superior to the "Shakespeare in
Love".Most compliments go towards the opening 25 minutes of the movie--and it
deserves it.  I feel that the final battle should seriously get more credit
than it has.  Michael Kahn's editing and the super sound work enhance the
fight in an almost "Wild Bunch" fashion.  Overall, very good example of Spielberg in his serious mode despite many
flaws in both plot, character, and continuity.  4.5 out of
5.
It still isn't the best war movie ever made.

******
2 July 2002
8

If someone doubts of the misery of a war, he/she should see this film.
Scenes very realistic of how difficult for the allies (UK and US armies)was
to get in Europe. Germans fought heavily and to the last man, they employed
everything possible to contain the advancement of the enemies during the 2nd
World War. The story showed the number of victims from each side, how scared
many soldiers in both sides were, and also the discipline of those American
soldiers who received the order to save the last Ryan. This film has high
values of morale and Spielberg once again showed his class as an
extraordinary director.  

******
8 July 2001
10

I typed a comment about this before, and now I've had time to rethink it.
There is only one major source for my distaste for this movie - Robert
Rodat. He trashes almost every country he can when he can except America,
which he tries to make out as brilliant and valiant and heroic etc. I mean,
where were the other armies at the D-Day landings? It wasn't just the Yanks
who landed there! And Monty overrated? Come on Robert! The fact that this
guy wrote The Patriot only shows his ignorant Brit-dissing even more.
Randall Wallace is another culprit of this super duper
pro-American-anti-everyone-else sentiment. I mean in Braveheart the Brits
are made out to be totally evil, which is just pure rubbish. Plus he
scripted Pearl Harbor, which did its damnedest to make the Americans not
look stupid over the attack - the only good movie about Pearl Harbor is
Tora! Tora! Tora!, which got it's history correct down to the smallest
detail.My major gripe said, this film is gripping from start to finish. The tension
really builds up in the landing craft at the start, and the landings really
do stun you. Janusz Kaminski's camerawork is a great defining feature of
this movie and deservedly won an Oscar. John Williams' score wasn't very
apparent, but when it was it was effective enough but rather repetitive. The
characters and the moral question behind the story are also well put out to
dry, as in why several soldiers for one? And Captain Miller's last words
really do express how he felt about going to save Private
Ryan.All in all by my reckoning, a half decent war movie that is needlessly
pro-American and disses other countries. Mind you, this is probably the main
reason it won any Oscars.

******
29 December 1999
10

i was praying for the day when steven spielberg would switch off of
autopilot and really put his heart into a movie which is what he did in
spades with this movie. i never usually cry during movies but the scene in
which the jewish soldier has a knife slowly plunged into his heart by the
german soldier is one of the most haunting and unnerving scenes i have
ever
seen. everything about this film from the editing, acting, and
cinematography is top-notch and shows that spielberg could be ranked up
there with kubrick if he would just slow down and put his mind and heart
into every one of his projects.

******
7 May 2010
10
When I was watching this movie the 1st time(I have watched it 8
times!!) the 1st scene itself made me feel cold and tense as if I
myself was there on the beaches of Normandy alongside Tom Hanks !! The
1st scene is undoubtedly the best 15 minutes of war footage in
cinematic history!There is only one explanation u can give for not having watched this --
u r dead ! Watch the movie and let Steve Spielberg mesmerize u with his
beautiful portrayal of a unique platoon with a unique mission, and
don't get surprised if u hear bullets whizzing in ur mind even after u
have stopped watching it coz this is a movie meant to stay forever in
the minds and hearts of all movie-lovers !! 10/10 definitely

******
19 September 2009
6
I saw "Saving Private Ryan" in a theatre in its first release, and
still watch it five or six times a year, for all sorts of reasons.
Eleven years later, I'm starting to know more clearly what I'd like to
say about this important film.First, the mastery of cinematic technique shown by Steven Spielberg and
his entire production crew is still exciting, and moving to me. A
viewer's sense of being on the Normandy beach, panic-stricken in the
thick of the chaotic energy, has not been dissipated by ten years of
other films' computer effects and three-second jump cuts. The
randomness of events, on the beach and after, is a kind of nightmare in
a ruined pastoral landscape, and clarifies each soldier's need to
withdraw to a sense of what to do, right now, to stay alive - right up
to the moment when the impulse to take care of a friend, or a child,
overrules common sense and the discipline of self-preservation. Second, though, I'm more saddened every year by the myopic focus on
American myth-making which Mr Spielberg embraced. He's made a wholly
self-centred film about D-Day, and a generation of moviegoers will
never know from this movie that the British, Canadian, Australian, and
other Allied troops were landing up and down the French coast at the
same moment. The Canadians, in fact, advanced considerably farther
inland than the Americans that day, under equally heavy fire. Tom
Hank's character mentions British Field Marshall Bernard Montgomery
leading his troops toward Germany; Ted Danson's character says "That
guy's overrated!" and Hanks's character says "No argument from me."
That's the total mention of the Allied participation in the invasion,
and Montgomery's stature in defeating the Germans in North Africa a
year earlier is erased for a whole generation of film goers, even
though his excellent leadership in North Africa earned him command of
the British troops on June 6th. The omissions, and flip judgments
reflect badly on the scriptwriter, and on Mr Spielberg. Third, the halo of sanctity which this film bestows on the members of
the special mission has become cloying. The soldiers of this film seem
to me to justify an American myth of charming immaturity, and "Saving
Private Ryan" dodges completely the documented ways in which American
soldiers' unpreparedness during and after the invasion was an
acknowledged problem during the last year of the war, especially in the
Battle of the Bulge, when American troops collapsed in the face of the
German attacks. I'm realising that, for me, "Saving Private Ryan" clashes seriously
with the historical record, and that in this sense, it's a meretricious
fantasy, however grippingly filmed. I'll still watch it, and feel the
adrenaline flow on the beach, below the machine-gun nest, and in front
of the bridge, but I won't subscribe to the myths.

******
14 April 2008
8
I can't claim that Spielberg has overwhelmed me on many an occasion. I
tend to find his work somewhat sentimental and too bright and up-beat
for my world-view. But here, he delivers. The first thirty minutes or
so of this will pretty much tell you what you need to know(and I mean
that in the most positive way possible), and few will manage to avoid
being pulled in, right from the start in a grip that only really lets
go when the credits roll. The production quality is rather close to
setting a new standard for highest. The direction is spot-on(there's
some beautiful underplaying going on here), and almost all of the
emotional material is done exactly right(there was perhaps one bit near
the end that just it is not quite there). The pacing is flawless, this
never loses your interest(in spite of being close to three hours) nor
moves so fast that the audience is lost. The acting is impressive(this
thing's got enough acting power to fuel half a dozen of these), even
Mark Vincent(even if he'd prefer we called him Vin Diesel) isn't
bad(yeah, I know...I could kick myself, and no thanks, Amy). The
realism is an accomplishment; the situations, the reactions, the
people, everything, almost the entire way through is so close to the
real thing you'd swear someone colorized actual footage or something.
There is some Hollywood herein, however, but the scales are tipped so
far in favour of the authenticity, it's a very, very minor complaint.
Cinematography and editing are just amazing... they really bring the
scenes to life, and give you a sense of what it must be like to really
be there. This has got atmosphere to spare. There is a lot of violence
and language. The writing is remarkable, and many details are
magnificent. The story isn't the most engaging ever in an anti-war
film, but it certainly is good. I recommend this to any fan of war
movies, just do realize that this holds little back in its depiction.
8/10

******
23 November 2007
10
In another Spielberg masterpiece, a mother is about to receive a
message stating that three of her four boys were killed in battle in
WWII. The government learns of the fourth Private Ryan (Matt Damon) and
declares a search for him to be found and sent home. After invading
Normandy on D-Day, Cpt. Miller (Tom Hanks) takes 7 men with him behind
enemy lines to search for Ryan.I love this film. It is so well done, interesting to watch, and still
great after many repeated viewings. A powerful look into the great war
of our time. I feel that this is among the best films of all time.The acting was great by all cast members. I don't recall any missteps
and there are certainly spots of fantastic acting in this film. As for
the plot, I'm not sure how true it is if even, but I think that it is
one of the greatest plots a war film has seen. The action is
spectacular and frequents with necessary and brutal war violence.
Saving Private Ryan brings the harshness of war to the audience, yet
still is entertaining and thought provoking rather than just plain
senseless.Furthermore, the visual effects were all great, and I never felt like I
was watching a movie so much as that I was there. It definitely gave me
that rare thing a film can do every once in a while; allowing to
completely be immersed in it.I think that this is among Spielberg's best for sure, and I can highly
recommend it as a must see piece of film history.Final Rating: 10/10

******
30 October 2007
10
This is my favorite movie ever. It has great action, great acting and
its realistic and suspenseful. D-day and the last battle were 2 of the
best battles i have ever seen on any movie. I loved all the different
stradagies they used in the last battle. The movie makes you like the
characters so much it makes you almost cry when they die. I wished more
characters could have survived at the end escpesially Captain Miller
and Private Jackson. The most suspenseful part by far was when Mellish
was upstairs and they hear something in the stairways and they don't
know who it is. This movie was great and everyone should see it if you
haven't.

******
10 August 2007
10
Because I have younger siblings, most war films I have seen are the
least realistic ones that are just fairly decent (Tears of the Sun,
Behind Enemy Lines). Upon finally having my siblings out of the house,
I was able to watch it. Let me tell you, I was blown away; the movie
was incredible.The first thirty minutes are all about D-Day, the bloodiest battle I
have ever seen on screen. It was very realistic and accurate; the dead
and the wounded were lying around everywhere, getting plowed down as
the ships opened. Not too many survived. One of the survivors is one of
my all-time favorite actors, Tom Hanks. He is affected by the battle
severely, and he recruits men afterward to hunt down Private Ryan,
whose other brothers have been killed in combat.The next two hours show us the complete trek to finding Private Ryan
and developing all the characters to their fullest. Every character has
his own personality, and you learn so much about each and every
character. Each one does a great job at showing what type of person
they are. Along the way, they have to fight off some Nazis and two men
are killed. This effects each and every soldier in Tom Hank's squadron,
and the life of war is seen taking its toll on each man, emotionally
and mentally breaking them and hurting them.Every time a character has a meltdown, it is very powerful. The moments
are calm and slow, but not soft on the heart. And yet they must press
on through the washed-up world until they find Private Ryan and have a
historic showdown in cinema history.Heroes die. Men are wounded and left for dead. Only some survive. The
final battle is merciless and although not as bloody as the D-Day
Invasion in the beginning, its more difficult to watch because more men
die and you know each and every one. What makes it even sadder is that
it was all real.Even my Grandpa, who was in several battles in the Korean War and held
as a prisoner for two years in Korea, said the movie was fairly
realistic. Steven Spielberg, cinematic genius of the 20th Century, is
not afraid to show the blood and gore and hammer disturbingly
devastating pain into the hearts of the viewer. And after the movie you
find yourself silent, quietly honoring the heroes of WWII. That is what
Saving Private Ryan did. 9.8/10.

******
31 October 2006
10
In Hollywood war film tradition, epic warfare orbits on the actions of
already acquainted heroes. In Steven Spielberg's judicial and exacting
masterwork, thousands of horror-struck and nauseated men, most of them
green to battle, are chucked into the grimace of devastating German
fire. The opening sequence is as detailed as any war footage. In the
blood-soaked opening steps, the landing forces and the enemy never
connect eye to eye, but are just faceless clots of men who have been
commanded to shoot at one another until one side is overwhelmed.Spielberg's camera makes no comprehension of the engagement. That is
the function of his approach. For the individual soldier on the beach,
the landing was a cacophony of clamor, sludge, gore, entrails and
morbidity. The scene is filled with various nongermane fragments of
chronology, as when a soldier has his arm blown off.This landing sequence is essential to form the remoteness between those
who give the order that Pvt. Ryan be saved, and those who are dictated
to do the saving. For Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks) and his men, the landing
at Omaha has been a melting pot of crossfire. For the Army Chief in his
Washington office, war feels more secluded and nationalistic. His
advisors doubt the judgment and even the plausibility of a mission to
save Ryan. That sets up the second act of the film, in which Miller and
his men infiltrate spryly inflamed French terrain, while entertaining
defiant ideas about the prudence of the assignment. All of Miller's men
have served with him before, save for Cpl. Upham (Jeremy Davies), the
translator, who speaks excellent German and French but has never fired
a rifle in rage and is frightened nearly to the point of his morality's
deterioration. The war was fought by civilians just like him, whose
lives had not readied them for the brass tacks of combat.Steven Spielberg is often thought of as a throwaway name to refer to
when speaking of the greatest directors of all time, mainly because his
movies are often romanticized, Hollywood blockbusters and not hard,
tough, cool grungy stuff. Spielberg, while he demonstrates a mastery of
pace and story crescendo that should be taught in every film school in
the world, proves with Saving Private Ryan, not to mention with the
more recent Munich, that he is capable of true grit and shocking
realism.The story begins with the most gut-wrenchingly violent battle scene
I've seen in any war film. This prolonged sequence depicts D-Day in the
most realistic possible way, not only with gore and violence but also
with the ambient violence that must be dealt with in moments of hasty
contemplation and desperate but emotionally diluted dialogue. The film
then segues into a story that applies the deeply affecting theme of the
mother. What makes the film so profound is its core drawing of sympathy
from the audience for the common boy's mother and the pain and worry
they endure in times of war that we can only imagine.His cinematographer, Janusz Kaminski, who also shot Schindler's List,
brings a newsreel texture to a lot of the footage, but that's rather
elementary next to his most substantial stroke, which is to make
everything manifest lucid. Following the meticulous pandemonium of the
landing scenes, Kaminski handles the attack on the machine gun nest,
and an extensive climax concerning the fortification of a bridge, in a
way that keeps us aligned. It's not simply men shooting at one another.
We learn the plan of the action, the subtle victory of optimism over
despair, the spontaneity, the corresponding locations of the soldiers.Hanks has a subtle sense of drama in his personal commitment to the
role of Capt. Miller, an English teacher who has outlived ordeals so
overwhelming that he doubts if his wife will even place him. With a
reserved, collected, and even exacting bearing, his hands nonetheless
quiver. He is on the verge of breakdown, but he does his best since
that is his duty. All of the actors, all the countless noteworthy
faces, playing the men under him are compelling, somewhat on account of
Spielberg defying the inducement to make them stereotypical caricatures
in the custom of WWII movies, and makes them emphatically everyday.Everything approaches the third act, when Private Ryan is found, and
the soldiers determine what to do next. Spielberg and his screenwriter,
Robert Rodat, have done a penetrating and personally transcendent
thing: They have made a philosophical film about war in effect
thoroughly in circumstances of action. Their sweeping ode says things
about war that are as intricate and demanding as any essayist could
likely assert, and does it with expansive, forceful imagery, with
brutality, with coarseness, with movement, with rapport. It is
conceivable to get across even the most sensitive notions in the most
elementary words and actions, and that's what Spielberg does with keen
instincts, because he signifies his impressions in visceral reactions,
not words. Steven Spielberg is as technically accomplished as any
filmmaker alive, and due to his mammoth eminence, he has admittance to
any asset he entails. Both of those facts are relevant to the punch of
this seamless period piece. He knows how to express his emotional
fervor about men in combat with utmost moralistic intensity, and he has
the apparatus, the greenback and the running dogs to make it happen.

******
20 August 2005
10
Saving Private Ryan is one of the best films ever made, it's also
definitely the best war film ever made. The opening scene of the
storming of Omaha Beach is one of the best scenes ever created on film,
maybe the best. The acting is amazing, by Tom Hanks, Edward Burns, and
Matt Damon, who's performance is strong even if his character is a
little shallow. The story is completely really convincing, it holds
stuff together very well. The direction is fantastic, it shows
everything quite well, giving an amazing vision that always is
completely wonderful.If you enjoyed Saving Private Ryan, you might also like Black Hawk
Down, Apocalypse now, and The Thin Red Line.

******
18 July 2005
3
This movie starts and ends with the American flag, this could be a
sufficient analysis of the movie really. Its a quite(by Hollywood) well
preserved myth that the "D-day" has got any real historical meaning.
The Thousenths Americans and British that died on the shores of
Normandy should of course be remembered. But historical facts should as
well be remembered. Spielberg wants to show us how USA fought for
freedom against fascist Germany failing to even mention the victories
of the soviet-union on the easter front in Stalingrad (a victory that
by the way cost about 20 million Russian deaths since they were
fighting the majority of the German troops). A movie about the history is never about the history. Its about the
present day. During the making of this film American airplanes where
bombing civilians in Jugoslavia. Of course they appointed Milosevic to
be "the new Hitler" before it all started. A little propaganda is never
wrong. Take a good look on the movies about the world war(s) since the
40:s. There is a very distinguished change from time to time. Very much
depending on what roll USA wishes to take in the world. Notice as well
that there are no black people in the picture. This is because it was
forbidden for blacks and whites to be in the same plutone(excuse my
spelling) until the 60:s(When they needed black cannon fodder in
Vietnam). Thats a could way to fight fascism.

******
26 December 2004
10
Nominated for 11 Academy Awards and for good reason. When released on
video several years ago, I watched about the first 5 minutes and turned
away, with no stomach for the blood and graphic violence in the opening
scene...with the release of the special edition DVD and it's reasonable
price and many accolades, I had to buy it to add to my collection. And
am I glad I did. First Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks were absolutely
superb as director and actor, respectively. No one in tinseltown could
have done a better job with a war movie. And Spielber's objective was
met with me anyway....know why we celebrate "Memorial Day" and
"Veterans Day"...this movie will explain why... The cinematography in
this film won the Oscar and rightly so!! I watched the special features
and Spielberg stated he extracted something like 60% of the color to
allow for more of a dated type film appearance, to look like
footage....and it worked...it made the movie so much more
believable...and bring you to the time and place and the horrors of war
and heroes we hear about but never meet. The viewer is spared no
brutality, no violence of war...it's frightening but gripping, hard to
watch but also hard to look away....There are many tearful moments in this movie, so it's definitely a
"have a tissue nearby" film. Sad, poignant, profound moments that (if
you're human i.e. compassionate) will force you, however subliminally
to remember what honoring our fallen heroes and the survivors of war is
all about. Tom Hanks and Steven Spielberg will bring you into the lives
of the soldiers of WWII. And this movie should awaken the viewer who
sees it now to the honor that our soldiers from any way, whether it's
WWI, WWII, Vietnam (especially) and now Iraq, DESERVE to be honored for
their losses..for they're lack of tomorrows are for our todays!A 10/10!! Kudos to Spielberg! This will join the movie classics of all
time!!

******
15 December 2004
10
This is one of the best war movies that I have ever seen. It had a
wonderful plot and was based on a true story. It not only entertains us
it also gives us a small history lesson: What the war was like How many
people gave their lives to save this country The weapons that they used
All in all I would give this movie a Ten out of Ten and proclaim it the
best war movie ever. Also the actual way they fought back then was very
interesting. Like the last scene in the movie, when they fought the
Germans to keep a hold of the bridge that they were protecting. Even
the character that were fictional appeared to have real lives and
actually participate in the war. There was only one thing that I did
not like and it was not enough to bring my vote down from a ten, and it
was the fact that some of the lines that they used were a little bit
crummy. "O my god they shot me" while he was still moving, first scene
of the movie. This was one of about three lines that I really do not
believe should have been included in the final script. Otherwise this
was still the best movie that I have ever seen in my entire life.

******
11 November 1999
2

The opening scene was really outstanding afterwards; however, the plot
disintegrated into good guys verses bad guys and the ending of how about 10
guys held off all the Germans using tactics from Magyver was
sacchrin-sweet.
The story ended up displaying how our superior moral ground as Americans
led to triumph against the evil fascists.

******
5 October 1999
2

This film is a typical example of the wrong conception that the big money
and a serious theme make a great art. No matter how important and serious
is
the problem of the film, nothing will save it if it is made without taste.
Spielberg goes on making dull, pretentious, unbearably politically correct
films for adults with a teenage level of intellect. Well, there is nothing
bad in making naive picture but naivety of Spielberg Films is of a special
kind. It seems that the director wants to make something more important
than
ET or Indiana Jones but, actually these are his best films, because they
are
what they are __ nice, entertaining films for kids. When Spielberg aspires
for something higher he inevitably finishes with a huge, monumental
soap.Unlike Shindlers List that I consider a good educational film for youth,
Private Ryan has something that I, citizen of a post-communist
(post-totalitarian) country cannot accept. America used to be for us a
symbol of democracy, and it is strange that now when there is no Soviet
danger anymore, American cinema is becoming more and more conservative and
hurrah-patriotic. Of course there is nothing bad in being a patriot of your
nation but the latest tendency is obviously aimed at propagating the armed
forces, militarism, etc. From this point of view there is not much
difference between the Private Rayan and the Independence Day. Spielbergs
films doesn't seem to show that much of senselessness of war (as it was
advertised), but propagates the bravery of the American soldiers and the
wisdom of the American regime, and does this as straightforward and
primitive as it can be. The story of the film seems pathetic (even if it is
true), and the acting is corresponding, good photography and excellent
sound
effects cannot save the film. I think it is time for some filmmakers to
realize that no matter how important and serious is the problem of film;
nothing will save it if it is made without taste.


******
5 September 1999
2

With so many true stories from WWII out there, this feeble concoction
seems
a pithy excuse to show the horrors of the landing on D-Day.  While the
opening sequence is harrowing, the rest of the movie seems to drown in its
wake.  Also, Tom Hanks was terribly miscast (he should stick to light
romantic comedy).

******
25 August 1999
2

After a realistic opening scene this degenerates quickly into standard
cliched Hollywood nonsense - stirring music at moments of emotion, usual
collection of stereotyped characters, trite sentiment - "Earn this". Hanks
is totally miscast, other actors forgettable. Also, from this film one
might
think that the US won the war single-handed, no mention of the British,
Canadian, French or Polish forces who were actually more involved in D-Day
than the Americans.

******
21 August 1999
3

What if this film had been made exactly as it is seen today by someone
other
than Steven Spielberg?  What would the critics be saying?  I have a
feeling
they would be telling the screenwriter to go back to college and learn
about
dialogue, story thrust, plausibility, and characterization - four things
that this awful, exploitive drivel singularly lacked.  I feel they would
also be telling the director that if you open a film with 40 minutes of
sickening violence that you had better be prepared to justify it later on.
The most disheartening thing about all of this is that Spielberg no longer
seems to care what his films are saying, only that they make a big enough
noise to be "important".  Following the unwatchable opening, we get
extremely trite symbolism, poor dialogue, and wooden acting in service of
a
badly presented story, all leading up to another unwatchable sequence,
followed by a coda which suggests that all of this unnecessary carnage is
a
great, noble, and patriotic thing.  In doing this, Spielberg aligns
himself
with the Nazis that his own "Schindler's List" abhorred....remember, the
Nazis were the kings of patriotism and nationalism.  The most offensive
aspect of this film, then, is its utter pretentiousness.  At least
exploitation movies don't pretend to be anything but what they are.  This
one, sadly, has delusions of grandeur (and although this criticism can't
be
levelled at the film itself, Spielberg's utterly arrogant acceptance of
his
Oscar for best director confirms all of my worst suspicions - compare it
to
his humble, tearful acceptance of the well-deserved Oscars for
"Schindler's
List").  Since no one around Mr. Spielberg seems to have the courage
necessary to tell him when the emperor has no clothes on, the
responsibility
falls to the critics and audiences.  Let him know you're tired of his
version of "reality".

******
30 June 1999
3

I couldn't wait to see this movie,upon its release.When I sat there
watching
it I was surprised at the brutality of it.That was however,the best part of
the movie.Other the honesty of the way the battle scenes were shot,the
story
was lame.I had a hard time believing that the life of one soldier was so
important.So important in fact,that the lives a a few soldiers are risked
in
saving him.And when they do find him its just more of the same brutal fight
scenes.Looks good but as a whole movie was bitterly
disappointing.

******
28 June 1999
3

Nice battle scenes, but the plot is actually unrealistic - just ask a
veteran.  During the largest invasion in the history of the human race, no
commanders were worried about individual men.  No squads sauntered through
enemy territory talking loudly and generally acting like big targets.  If
the dialogue and the acting were better, I could overlook the flaws, but
Matt Damon in particular is rank.  For a real, true to life war movie,
watch
A Bridge Too Far; no Hollywoodization there.

******
17 May 1999
3

When this first came out, everyone jumped up and danced around about how
good it was.  Critics said it was incredibly powerful and it redefinned
the
war movie.  They claimed it was nothing like those patriotic films right
after world war two.  Nor was it like the many excellent films made during
the 70s and 80s on Vietnam.  It was so different and so much better.  I
completely disagree.  If anything, it is a throwback to all those Gung-Ho
films like "The Sands of Iwo Jima".  It really makes one want to join the
fight and help save Europe.  And it is quite funny.  Not only is there
humour when they are marching around looking for Private Ryan (which is
acceptable), but you also laugh when people are dying.  That shouldn't
happen in a quality war movie. It can in an action movie on the other
hand.
Another thing, the ending is absolutely ridiculous, like that would
happen.
I must commend Spielberg for his excellent direction of the landings and
the
action sequences were staged well, but this is no great
film.

******
16 April 1999
4

One of the great things about seeing a film twice is that it allows you to
go back and see the flaws that flew right on past you the first time you saw
it. When I first viewed "Saving Private Ryan", I enjoyed the film, but at
the time I didn't really think about why. I walked out of the screening not
really thinking about the film at all. First bad sign! Later on, at home, I
began to think about the impact that "Saving Private Ryan" had on me. I
started to feel as though the film had no impact on me what so ever. Second
bad sign! How could this be? How could a film acclaimed by so many as one of
the best war films ever made, have no effect on me? So, in a couple of days,
I went and watched it again and then everything became clear. "Saving
Private Ryan" is Steven Spielberg through and through. When I first saw the
film, I had thought that Spielberg had risen above the many poor works of
his past, but I was dead wrong.Steven Spielberg is a master at pulling the wool over the eyes over his
momentous audience. He made many of us feel that we really needed another
epic WWII film, such as what he has created. He has done the same thing with
other films such as "Schindler's List" and "Amistad". While I admire
"Schindler's List" for its historical merits and its importance of topic, I
hardly regard it as the high form of cinematic art that so many have claimed
it to be. My opinion of "Saving Private Ryan" does not change too much from
this.The film does nothing to add to the war genre. Much of it is a regeneration
of older, and much better war films. Not only this, "Saving Private Ryan"
blatantly contradicts itself. The film is obviously meant to be perceived as
an anti-war film. I suspect that Spielberg would not have filmed the opening
battle scene in the manner he did, if it wasn't. No doubt, most people will
see this as an anti-war film, but is it really? I think not. If a film is to
be truly ant-war, then there can be no redeeming qualities of war. This
means that war can not be seen as heroic or patriotic. How many times was
there a flash of the American flag over the entirety to the screen? I can
not remember, but if it was five, then it was five too many. There is an
overwhelming question in the film. Was it really worth it to go to the
trouble of saving Private Ryan (Matt Damon)? Of course, in light of the fact
that the majority of the Hollywood audience is intolerant of ambiguity, they
answer this question. John Miller (Tom Hanks) is to be seen as an American
hero for the mission that he and his squad accomplished. This does not sound
like anti-war to me. In great war films like "Paths of Glory" and "Full
Metal Jacket", there are no heroes that transpire from battle at the end.
There are no redeeming qualities illustrated at all. In these films, war is
depicted as ugly, inhumane, alienating, and just plain
wrong.The opening battle sequence which lasts for about 30 minutes is wonderful in
its brutal realism and its leads us into thinking that we are about to
experience a truly harrowing war picture. In fact, this is one of the best
sequences that I have seen on film, and the movie is worth seeing just for
the one scene. We, the audience really feel as if we are in the midst of
this highly violent and bloody battle at Normandy.  The sound quality and
the visuals are immaculate. The camera seems to take on a role of its own.
It seems to be ducking behind objects to avoid being hit by bullets, just as
the rest of the soldiers are. The entire scene is shot with the hand held
camera, with jerky, and often disorienting movements, adding to the chaos of
the battle.Unfortunately, the rest of "Saving Private Ryan" isn't as well made as this
first scene. The battle scene near the end of the film feels like something
out of an action movie. It has the same effect as an action sequence from
one of the "Die Hard" movies in that it thrills us with its fast-paced
shootouts and numerous explosions. I found myself not caring who was killed
and who wasn't. It felt like cartoon violence. I enjoyed watching the
sequence for this reason. It came no where close to having the same impact
as the opening battle.While I recommend seeing "Saving Private Ryan" for the technical merit of
the opening battle, problems continuously present themselves throughout the
rest of the film. It contradicts its anti-war presence. The ending is summed
up to nicely. Leaving the end more ambiguous would have been effective at
least in terms of provoking thought. My strongest objection to the film is
its sinking to the level of an action picture at the climax. This is not
something that I wanted in a film of this scale. "Saving Private Ryan" leaps
to a great start, but ends up not having the endurance to make it to the
finish line as a winner. *** out of ****

******
7 April 1999
4

I highly recommend seeing this movie at the theatres...then seeing another
movie after the first thirty minutes is over.  The first thirty minutes
was
all of the balls that this movie had.  After the grisly scene, Spielberg
castrates this movie.  The movie was too long for its own good.First, the 20-second intro and finale.  These were the most emotional
scenes
of the whole movie.  They brought tears to my eyes, seeing all of the
soldiers that died in the wars for this country.  That is what the crosses
were, and it was in a national cemetary, probably Arlington.  These were
two
of the three most sad moments of the movie.Second: the thirty-minute D-day battle.  This was the other emotional
moment
of the movie.  This is the only time that I disagree in that I
thought that the movie was very realistic.  I was depressed by it, and
saddened.  Especially when one soldier picks up his arm.  The use of
sound,
visuals, and effects were outstanding for this portion of the movie.  It
depressed me.Third: the rest of the movie.  It SUCKED.  I was bored to tears, that is
why
it is depressing.  I sat there, and sat there, and sat there waiting for
something intellectual to come up and at least slap me.  No, I do not
think
that the dilemma of trying to rescue one soldier is intellectual, I think
it
is STUPID.  It did not show any realities, and I did not want to go along,
and it just was pure crap.  This is very superficial,
and I felt that I should have probably cared about the people, but I DID
NOT.    This ruined the end of the movie because I was so bored, that I
did
not notice the violence all that much in the last scene, and was only a
little moved by the crosses reappearing.I give this movie a four because it did not try.  It is just as fluffy as
"Shakespeare In Love," which also did not deserve to win.  I must highly
recommend "The Thin Red Line" because it makes you think for yourselves,
instead of trying to force you to think "THERE.  THIS IS BAD.  CRY.  BE
HAPPY.  FEEL THIS."  My response to these movies is "I'm not stupid, don't
insult me.  Let me make my own judgement."  If you want oscar-calibur
movies
go see "Elizabeth," or "The Thin Red Line."  Also, "Life Is Beautiful" is
really good.  

******
16 March 1999
4

When the other characters started talking about how Tom Hanks was an obscure
guy and how insensitive he was I felt like they were explaining something
the movie itself couldn't do.The first scene and the last are perfectly done, technically, really
impressive. Not much more than that in the rest of the
movie.

******
13 March 1999
3

Remember the heart-rending scene in "Titanic" where the mother is telling a
story to her two doomed children in bed as the ship is going down? If
Spielberg had made "Titanic", we would have been treated to the sight of the
mother and children sucking in salt water and slowly drowning. And
movie-goers would be saying, "Well, that's the way it really was! Why pull
punches?" So in "Saving Private Ryan", we're subjected to people exploding
and being decapitated as a substitute for real drama.Spielberg personifies the philosophy, "If you CAN show it, you MUST show
it". Show it he does - the violence, that is. But if you really want to get
an idea of why these men were able to rise to heroic levels, or if you want
to return to that time in our nation's history and meet those people, get to
know and understand those people, this just ain't the movie.But if you want an incredible amount of action (did any one soldier ever see
so much action?) then this is the movie for you. Great special effects,
almost all of which were put to use showing how bullets penetrate bodies and
rip limbs off.Recommendation: Go rent "The Big Red One", made in 1980. It communicates the
horror of war by humanizing the participants. The closing scene showing the
soldiers clearing out the remnants of a concentration camp is a miniature
masterpiece. And not one person's head has to explode to get us to
understand the violence perpetrated by men against men. 


******
28 February 1999
3

With all the hype that this movie has gotten, along with the critics raving
that it is "the greatest war movie ever made," I simply had to add my
two-cents.Outside of the first 15 minutes, which truly are incredible, the movie is
unoriginal and unconvincing. I never felt that the really was a good reason
for going after Private Bleached-teeth.The tank battle towards the end was pretty good but for real wartime horror
check out the German STALINGRAD.And as far as incredible WWII films go, you simply can't live without having
seen DAS BOOT.

******
9 February 1999
3

I must admit I'm a little bit boggled by all of the acclaim this film has
gotten.  There isn't anything innovative or original about it, and it is
seriously marred by Spielberg's tendency to pander to his audience.  Do we
really need the framing device in which we see the sad old man in the
cemetary?  This is such a blatant effort to pull on heartsrings that I found
myself resisting the movie on an emotional level.I also couldn't believe the scene in which Private Ryan is located. This scene
was totally out of place, in terms of both plot and tone.  It is a superfluous
scene, and the feeble attempt at humor is distracting.  I don't need a
"Three's Company"
style misunderstanding in the midst of a serious war film.  Why does
Spielberg have to sugarcoat everything?  Is he afraid that if he doesn't
provide some comic relief the audience will be put off?And consider the scene in which Matt Damon relates a childhood story about
his brothers.  As he tells the story it grows more and more implausible, and
less and less funny, until finally the whole thing collapses under its own
weight.  This is a perfect example of a scene that could have been highly
emotional if it weren't damaged by astonishingly bad writing.  In an attempt
to create yet another maudlin, three-hanky moment,  the filmmakers failed to
realize that the scene just plain doesn't work.Another problem is the characters.  I was especially disappointed by the
portrayal of the German soldiers, who are seen only as The Enemy. It's too bad
that we weren't allowed to see them as three-dimensional human beings.  I'll
bet that somewhere on the German side there's a counterpart to the Jeremy
Davies character, someone overwhelmed by the senselessness and cruelty of
battle.Most of this would be forgivable if we had some innovative film technique to
distract us.  We don't.  The most interesting visual element of the film is
the shaky hand-held camera in the opening battle.  But this technique has
already been used a number of times, most notably in "G.I. Jane" a year
earlier.   As for the rest of the film, I'll admit that the battle scenes
were competently directed.   But competent is all they are.  Spielberg
doesn't display anything near the technical skill of, say, Stanley Kubrick
in the sniper scene of "Full Metal Jacket"."Saving Private Ryan" is being acclaimed as a masterpiece, but if you want
to see a truly sensitive, intelligent war movie, see "The Thin Red Line"
instead.

******
1 February 2014
1
Nobody who has studied WW2 just for a while and knows some basic facts
about it can not like this film. The plot doesn't make any sense.
Sacrifice the whole "rescue" unit for sake of one's paratrooper's life?
Seriously? Stop pretending to be noble here and answer a simple
question: "Is a search for one man (not rescue exactly) worth risking
lives of a whole squad?" Furthermore, how can someone expect of a small
unit, which consists of bunch of infantrymen, to find one man in such a
vast area? There was a big mess after attack of allied paras. They were
spread all over the place with heavy loses. Some reviewer wrote here
the idea to call 101st on radio to pull Ryan back. I think that would
be the best thing to do.This movie is unbelievably insulting. The Germans are portrayed way too
cartoonish like blood-thirsty animals (Americans are the good guys of
course) and completely inept enemy at the same time, which of course
wasn't true in most cases. The Germans were a tough enemy in spite of
the fact that most of their soldiers were not equipped and trained well
as in the earlier years. What all of you people who think the portrayal
of Germans in this movie is realistic is the reason the war lasted so
long?! Just bad luck and weather? No way. Some reviewers wrote that
there is nothing stupid about Germans here because they made mistakes
like slow reaction to the D-day or wrong estimation of the invasion's
spot. That is true but it has nothing to do with quality of individual
soldiers. That is not a justification for showing elite units including
SS panzer gruppen as complete idiots!The American saviors were just refusing to die each time a shootout
emerged. Yes, they were killed finally but should be dead much earlier.
You are supposed to sympathize with our bunch of American action
characters but I just hated everyone of them. Spielberg wants us to
think that they are battle hardened soldiers, but I had the feeling
they are just kids playing some war game (except for the interpreter,
who was totally unnecessary character btw., acting annoyingly cowardly
for no reason in the whole movie). I was bored for most of the time
after the first sequence. The way the unit moves behind enemy lines
looks like a walk in Central Park. One German with machine gun in the
right position could easily wipe out at least half of the unit because
they didn't keep any type of formation which should have prevent this.The final scene is so incredibly stupid that I doubt about common sense
of those who spoke well about this one. You see German attackers
running back and forth without covering fire or support in front of
American barrels! Germans even don't try to find any kind of cover!!
They even hardly return any fire!!! It's like shooting range for
American soldiers or some kind of PC game. Looks like every dead
American takes at least 100 Germans to hell with him. Kids, if you like
this sequence, I have bad news for you. The war doesn't look like this.
You hardly see anything more than enemy soldier's head and his gun when
combat occurs and of course the kills are not so easy to get. On the
other hand the Americans also run uncovered many times but with some
ability to dodge bullets or something like that. That is the only
explanation of my own for their immortality. In reality they would have
been killed instantly if they would behave in such way as shown in this
sequence, for example running in front of PzKpfw tiger which has
manually operated machine gun at the front. The rules which apply to
Germans somehow don't apply to Americans. The tactics performed by both allies and axis here is laughable.
Germans wouldn't enter a town with tanks ahead and infantry behind them
because the tanks are vulnerable in urban areas. Their strength is
placed in the open. The attack on the radar station is weird as well.
The defenders were surely part of a bigger group. It is obvious that
after killing the defenders the Americans should retire using "Hit and
run" tactics because other Germans could enter a fight. Instead of it,
they argue on the very spot they've just captured about a sense of
their mission like there is nothing to worry about (it would have been
clear to an orangutan from a very beginning that this mission sucks).
Just stupid. I could go on like this and mention for example shooting 7 shots from 5
round rifle without reloading and so on but I will skip it. You cannot
let this so called war movie treat with history like this. Call it
action B movie and I'm gonna take it. Never watch this crap if you like
history and portrayal of it in the way it actually happened.

******
14 December 2007
10
Obviously you don't need me to tell you that, you probably already
knew. Everything about this film was spectacular...The realism, the
plot, the production value, the acting..etc all amazing. The characters
are all unique and likable..with the exception of Upham(AKA the good
guy you hate more than the bad guys) Several reasons for this: He's
idiotic and doesn't understand war, he talks all this "humanity, and
what's right BS," but when it's time to kill an enemy easily and save a
fellow comrad, he's too much of a coward. He also fails in the field
because he was cowardice..Though he finally shot someone, it proved
useless..it only said he was willing to kill, but kill an unarmed
person at point blank.(which ironically makes him more of a coward.)
Other than that all characters are cool. The mysterious Miller, the
tough guy Carparzo, the jolly Harvath, the defiant Reiban, the great
medic Wade, the great yet unfortunate Mellish, and my personal
favorite, the cool religious sniper, Daniel Jackson. You can't help but
fall into the story..I mean everything is done so exceptionally, it's
no wonder why this is remembered as an all-time great.

******
8 December 2007
10
This movie has affected me deeply. I saw this with high expectations
and was NOT disappointed. I feel incredibly lucky that the war didn't
affect me and i know that sounds very selfish. Spielberg shows us what
a debt we owe to those brave heroes who gave their lives for us so
horrifically. The D-Day landing scene at the start made me cry. I
couldn't help it. This movie shows such feeling and pain and love it is
unbelievable.Im so glad i watched this film because it has made me feel emotions i
haven't felt whilst watching a film since Band Of Brothers, another
powerful war film/TV show. Steven Spielberg is a legend and Tom Hanks
is superb. A must see. More than ten stars! I would give it a million!

******
15 May 2007
4
This is a throwback to old war movies, make no mistake. We have an
identifiable group of men (eight of them), who go on a mission. This
one is to risk their lives to save one man. Its based upon the story of
the Sullivans, a group of brothers who all died, and the Department of
Defense decided it was time to act so that not all of a family would
perish in war. The Sullivans served together on the same ship (The
Indianaplois), and perished. Of course if they had lived, they probably
would have just moved to the East coast, had their own ship, go hunting
for a giant shark, and made fun of college kids, then get eaten by a
shark any way. So these eight soldiers look for Private Ryan, the last
of his family, and are to make him return home. Along the way, they
suffer casualties. There isn't a lot of new material here. A lot has
been made of the gore, but even the old films had gore to equal or
outdo this. Old World War Two films didn't hesitate to have men lose
their legs when tanks would run over and amputate them, or to be
horribly disfigured. So there is nothing new. The action comes in bits
and pieces until a big fight in the end. Some of it looks a little too
contrived, to be honest, as though the director was aiming at some
conclusion with all the little conclusions coming first. True to old
time movies, minor characters die first, and also true to old time
movies, men from New York and cigarette smokers get a free pass and
cannot be killed, so you know some who will survive. Just a little too
trite and Hollywood to be recommended, but not a bad movie.

******
26 February 2007
6
I personally think this film is not as good as its hyped up to me. Yes
it might be realistic, but as a film, I've seen better, with deeper
meanings and understandings. I hear people say this is the best war
film ever made! In comparison to films such as apocalypse now, full
metal jacket, paths of glory, even Platoon there is no contest in my
opinion. This film is about the soldiers, and what they had to put up
with, which any person will feel for, however the films I have
mentioned above have more depth, and discuss more important issues,
with greater subtleties (in some cases) and take into account the
"grand scheme of things". Comparing this film with "Full Metal Jacket"
also is an example of the difference between a "Hollywood" director
like Spielberg who directed E.T, Indiana Jones, Jaws and Kubrick who
directed A clockwork orange, 2001 and Dr Strangelove. Don't get me
wrong i loved Indiana Jones, E.T. and Jaws, but when I compare these
films with the Kubrick ones, I see a major difference(with the
exception of Shindlers List). However good these films are, they are
simple stories, whereas Kubrick tackled bigger issues. Saving Private
Ryan is not a simple story, but it asks for sympathy, and rightly so,
but that is all it does for me. What I would like to say is that the
opening battle scenes are remarkable. I am someone who believes in
being only one or two, if that really good films a year. I did not
think this was one of them.

******
11 November 2005
8
Seeing it again, nine years after its release, you can't help being
struck by how familiar things are: the pale blue cast of the
photography, the distinctive special effects, the squib charges
exploding not with blood but with dust when a man is hit, the clank of
bullet against armor, the shaky camera, the enemy seen as dark phantoms
scurrying through the murk of the battlefield, the tiny fountain of
cork chips as a bullet slams into the dirt, the attention to period
detail, the necessity of reloading at particularly awkward moments.All of this is familiar now because it's been so often aped, often in
strong films like "Band of Brothers" and "Blackhawk Down". I doubt that
anyone could make an "ordinary" war film anymore. Slow, cheap ones like
Sam Fuller's or even innovative grunt's-view stories like "Platoon." If
you're going to make a war movie now, Spielberg's "Saving Private Ryan"
is the bogie you have to match. It is the fate of rebels to found
orthodoxies.And what an innovation this movie was. Oliver Stone must be applauded
for tackling a subject like the Vietnam war that was so controversial
that the conflict was avoided for more than ten years, because of the
still smoldering emotions the war had generated. If Vietnam had been a
human being it would have had to stalk around dressed in rags, tinkling
a little bell, and crying "Unclean, unclean." "Saving Private Ryan"'s
subject is less controversial. First, the enemy really WAS our enemy.
(Germany declared war on the USA first, not the other way around.)
Second, well -- we won, didn't we? But it is probably more original in
its details. And candid too. A German and an American soldier are
locked in bitter mano a mano conflict, and the German wins! And not by
cheating either! He is the bigger man and finally overpowers the
American and inch by inch sinks the American's own bayonet into his
chest. He does not gloat or smile. It's no tennis game to the German,
but a deadly necessity, just as it is for the American soldier.
"Relax," the German pants in a low voice, "it's very simple," as the
tip of the knife slowly penetrates the American's chest. The scene is
phenomenally stark.The most complex character is Upham's. The rest of the Americans play
their assigned roles, performing impossible feats of bravery. This is
precisely what the Germans are doing too. But Upham fails at a crucial
point and costs the lives of his allies. The viewer can sit back and
make Olympian judgments about Upham's character, but consider that for
every hour Upham spent in combat he was as valiant as everyone else for
fifty-five minutes. He translated, was almost run over by a tank, ran
across open spaces under fire, and carried ammunition. But those
fifty-five minutes don't count on his side, only the five during which
he was frozen in tonic immobility, a fundamental mammalian trait which
-- not having been in Upham's place ourselves -- we can condemn him
for.Maybe nobody can define an "anti-war movie." They ALL claim to be
anti-war movies. How could you possibly market a PRO-war movie unless
we were formally at war with another nation? To many people, an
anti-war movie is a simple excuse to give us more action and more
blood. Put Steven Segal in combat boots. Others are anti-war because
they give us a glimpse of the enemy's humanity somewhere along the
line. But in all the anti-war movies we always seem to win, as indeed
we do in "Saving Private Ryan". (The cavalry comes galloping to the
rescue.) All war movies, even those depicting a "defeat" like Pearl
Harbor, seem to endorse the same bumper-sticker slogan: "No matter how
sneaky or noble they may be, they can't whip us." I guess it takes an
enormous amount of courage -- in Hollywood -- to ask an audience to pay
money to see a movie in which we lose a war or a battle or a fist fight
with an enemy. It's what I admire about a movie as flawed as "A Bridge
Too Far." And it's what makes me feel more involved in the tragedy
shown in "Saving Private Ryan." That hand-to-hand fight that the
American loses contravenes established war narratives. What? We LOSE?
It's as shocking as Hitchcock's killing of Janet Leigh half-way through
"Psycho." Don't miss "Saving Private Ryan," a milestone at the time.

******
17 March 2005
9
A close Russian friend, a one-time tank commander, made me think
seriously about this movie. He said, "The first 20 minutes of 'Saving
Private Ryan' make all other war movies look foolish." He then
continued, "For example, that Hollywood movie 'Memphis Belle' is so
silly." Well, I happen to think 'Memphis Belle' is a good movie. And I
must say that Spielberg copied the "Hollywood" war-movie style of
Kubrick's "Dr. Strangelove".Technical issues or even realism aside, the underlying message of
"Saving Private Ryan" is so strong, so well-put, and so human, that in
my view it defies objection. I have wandered too many war cemeteries to
think otherwise. "All Quiet on the Western Front" is also a good war
movie but it makes the case for pacifism. The basic message of "Saving
Private Ryan" is not pacifist at all. It's something else altogether.
But I suggest you see it and draw your own conclusions.Lastly, "Saving Private Ryan" is so well-made that it bears repeated
viewings. But if you dislike war movies, then you should still watch
this movie once, if only for the message.

******
1 July 2000
1

 1/2 out if 10......This movie is so dull and boring and the acting is so
wooden that you can't help but fall asleep....I don't what it is with me and
the past 2 or 3 blockbusters that have came out (SPR, Titanic, American
beauty) these films are just all hype and no substance...If this movie was
about an hour shorter and the actors at least looking like are awake this
film would've been a whole lot better.....That's my opinion and I'm sticking
to it..."Thin Red Line" is a better war movie..and a tad
shorter..

******
12 November 1998
1

I'm sorry, but I was not at all impressed by this film. The plot was thin,
the characters too stereotypical. By the end I didn't mind who would make it
through and who wouldn't.
I have seen better.

******
21 September 1998
1

A great disappointment, this film did nothing but rub our collective nose in
the violence and cruelty of war.  This we already know, thank you,
Spielberg!  Older and more sophisticated films used to contextualise war,
giving us an insight into more important and valuable realities;  friendship
and loyalty for instance.A great opportunity to explore the richness and complexity of war by one of
our most entertaining and clever film directors has been sadly
lost.

******
1 September 1998
1

There is a line, however fine, between cinematic masterpiece and good
filmmaking.  Though I believe "Private Ryan" is neither, I would definitely
place it in mediocre standing towards the latter category.  It is a
questionably solid example of a type of filmmaking known as realism; that
is, "what" is more important than "how."  Notice the lack of character
development and the absence of closeness with organized plot.  Most movies
today, whether they be masterpieces or not, are at least cinematic.  
"Private Ryan" should not have been marketed like these other films.  It is
not cohesive, nor is it engaging.  It is meant to shock us into believing
that this is how it was in WWII.  Therein lies it's merit.  Spielberg
should have promoted it this way: "My film is a realistic recreation of
difficult and dramatic events, not a 'flick.'"  He should have shown it in
art houses and college classrooms.  I wish that I could say his isolated
attempt to engage audiences with realism was precise, but alas, I must also
note that Speilberg's idea of realism is off-base.  The movie, to me,
seemed technically poor in some spots with inconsistent lighting and
obvious computer manipulation.  However, the real problem with the format
of the film lies in it's breaches of realism.  We get glimpses of character
analysis with the very plastic opening and ending scenes in the cemetery. 
In addition, the inner scene in a crumbling old church (beautiful images
out of place) where the young medic remembers his mother, lets us journey
far too deeply within the mind and soul for realism.  On a more positive
note, the acting was superb all around.  If Speilberg has accomplished
anything with "Private Ryan," he has revealed the strengths of some
outstanding young actors.

******
9 August 1999
1

There are some very good things about this film, unfortunately there are
also some very bad things that detract from it as a whole.First the good news:The action sequences at the beginning and end of this film are second to
none - War is not "Heck" but something entirely more horrific.
There were some nice little touches such as Miller having Parkinsons that
added some colour to the characterisation.Now the bad news:There were far too many formulaic elements in this film - I would like to
think this was enforced by the studios but I doubt it.The German they let go and what happens afterward with him - extremely
predictable.The Rookie that goes to pieces at completely the worst time - equally
soThe sequence where Miller is firing at the Tank with his sidearm - we're in
Cliche country.The ending (From after above scene onward) - Far too jingoistic for my taste
- the Film tries to show how repulsive war is, then tries to glorify
it??
This particularly cheapens the entire movie.Saving Private Ryan is great to look at, and will hopefully open a lot of
people's eyes as to what being shot or blown up actually looks like in
"Reality", but with a sharper script and a less cynical template, it could
have been a lot better.Dan 

******
4 December 1998
1

This movie *is* very realistic .. but that's more or less everything it has.
It tries to give the impression of having been filmed on the spot, and
acquires the drawbacks of documentaries.- The soundtrack is too loud (even the sound of the waves at the very
beginning of the first scene)- The story is weak (as dull as an average real life war
story)- The camera moves during actions give one a headache- The storyline is paternalistic and moaningMilitary enthusiasts can love it.  Action fans had rather go watch
"Starhip Troopers" and forget about "Saving Private Ryan"

******
5 October 2009
1
It was just ridiculous. Thanks to god I watched it on TV, because I
woudln't spend a broken penny on it. It was just laughable. Sending so
many soldiers just to take some Ryan home, because his brothers died
and he is last son. Like there was just only one mother that lost her
elder sons during the war and only the younges was left.The whole story is just cliché. Typical nonsense drama to make
millions.I would give it 7/10 if the action took place somewhere else, but for
Christ sake, not WW II.3/10 just because it's laughable.

******
18 September 2007
2
The first half hour of Saving Private Ryan is excitingly filmed,
graphic and horrifying. The rest of the movie is maudlin, bloated,
badly plotted and with some of the least compelling dialogue it has
been my misfortune to hear. A movie that starts and ends with the US
flag is likely to put non-American viewers off side. It would appear
that the only people involved in World War II were the Americans, a few
cowed and unimportant French peasants and pantomime German villains. A
psychiatrist friend of mine assures me that this movie is a classic
illustration of the isolation caused by post traumatic stress disorder,
but her husband agrees with me that the movie is just rubbish. The Thin
Red Line, which was so overshadowed by this farrago, was of a poetic
beauty that is rare in US cinema. See that instead.

******
8 October 2005
4
It is very clear to me that Mr. Spielburg has never fought in a war
situation. The film did not depict D Day as it was at that time. It is
clearly relating to the turn of the century, and would be seen as such.Many will think that its success is because it is purely a US affair. I
thought there were about 16 countries involved, including the defense
team. The battle scenes are over dramatized, and no one seems to keep
their heads down to avoid being shot, especially the Germans. Also, as
usual, the Germans are depicted as being cowardly, stupid and "not
obeying the rules". The whole film is an exercise in American patriotism, as told in
American schools. If you must see an American war movie that is
realistic, watch Task Force, which is a much more accurate depiction of
war. Also, it depicts the Americans getting the worst deal on D Day.
Not true. The Germans did.This film is sometimes chosen as the greatest ever. Not by me. I would
dearly love to know if these voting systems are stacked.

******
22 August 1999
1

This movie does for battle scenes what Raiders did for
action
movies, but between the battles it's the same old sickly
sentimentality and kitsch Speilberg-isms we are accustomed to.  The
Speilberg suspense-arc is easily recognized, giving SPR the feel of
Poltergeist with Germans rather than ghosts, and E.T. with a kid from Iowa
rather than a kid's toy.  Positively tiresome.The interminable length results in a whole lot of a bad
thing...

******
25 January 1999
1

On the wake of the golden globe awards. I feel it pertinent to point out the
horrendous nature of this film. How anyone can believe this is a mediocre
film, let alone the best picture of the year is beyond normal human
comprehension. I feel that this poor attempt at a film, disparages the
importance of the world war 2 and all the people who died. I think the
director could have made more of a visual impact if he had used one of his
old camcorders. In fact, I've seen student films that have crisper and more
defined images. It is obvious, that for the subject nature of this film, the
filmmaking was totally incompetent. I expected so much more from such a good
director as Steven Spielberg. Hopefully, in future endeavors they will edit
the film and remove the grainy and amateur images.


******
11 November 1999
1

A bloody opening on D-day, with the twitchy camera to make it look
"real"....Followed by a colorized, bloodized, version of "Combat".He can pull your strings, but it was a poor flick.

******
2 February 1999
1

If this movie wins Best Picture and Tom Hanks Best Actor, then its all just
politics.  I thought the whole thing was boring.  It s just Spielberg's war
movie. Period.

******
21 January 1999
1

Unbelievably hyped-up, this pathetic attempt to make THE (unbias) War Movie,
in my opinion, FAILED.Steven SPEILBERG: Mission FAILED.After 2 hours of irrelevant, continous, meaningless fighting, bloodshed and
gore, one finds Saving Private Ryan BORING. The first scene of battle is
effective, but when this is followed by another 2 hours of similar material,
well, you're not left with much.With the first and last scene being an American Flag waving in the wind, one
realises that indeed, "this is another load of American patriotic
RUBBISH".Lacking a story-line, this is a hollow tree.2/10 for Saving Private Ryan.

******
21 May 2005
1
never in my life have I been forced to watch such crap the one good
point of this film is the beach scene apart from that its two and a
half hours of the most unbelievable story line and poor acting ability
that I have ever had the misfortune to watch. Tom Hank's portrayal of
Captain Miller was shockingly bad he failed to get to grip with the
part and his acting got worse from scene to scene. my advice to anyone
that wants to watch a truly good war film is go and rent apocalypse now
and save your self the misery of this rubbish.This is a film for people who like special effects and nothing else.
don't waste your time.

******
29 January 1999
1

I was impressed by the brutal battlefield depiction which started the movie,
and I'm sorry to say it's all downhill from there. There was even a very
appropriate moment of black comedy when the soldiers shoot the surrendering
Germans, but not five minutes later they introduce clumsy Private Comic
Relief and for me the movie was over. Everything from then on seemed a pale
cliché of every other war movie I've ever seen, and I haven't seen all that
many. Ooh the stars went through boot camp! Was I the only one who noticed
how loud (obnoxious) and unorganized the troops searching for Private Ryan
were? They would have all been dead in seconds. Oh yeah, very
realistic! 

******
10 June 2012
8
Date: 9 June, 2012 -First Time Watch- This was my first time watching
'Saving Private Ryan' and it may be my last, for a good reason. The
story is extremely sad but what makes it very sad is because it's true.
Most of the things that occurred in the movie actually happened in
World War Two. As a person interested in World War Two, I found this
movie did an extremely good job depicting life after D-Day. The ending
is extremely sad and it actually took my by surprise. I didn't expect
that to happen. I expected some of it, but not all of it. In my
opinion, this is one of Steven Spielberg's best films, along with
'Schindler's List'. Very moving and touching.8/10

******
13 March 2010
9
This depicts the second world war as no other film had before. The
first twenty five minutes really drives home the futility and brutality
of war as well as the incompetence of the bomber commanders in not
clearing the beach a little more.For me the sign of a good movie is that it seems shorter than it's
running time. This movie is nearly tree hours but seems nowhere near
that long.The performances are all very good with fine memorable characters and
the only jarring note for me was at the end when the captain tells Ryan
to Earn this. Maybe I just didn't get it, but I felt that it put an
awful burden on Ryan who would have been haunted by the fact that all
these soldiers had died to save him, especially when he didn't want to
be saved.Other than that it is an excellent way to spend a few hours.

******
10 February 2010
10
I read the review on the title page that recommended watching this film
with a surround sound system to make watching this film an astounding
experience. I took the advice of this reviewer and I thank him, the
sound quality was mind-blowing and captivated me for the 162 minute
running time. However, this brutally realistic depiction of combat is
an astounding experience regardless of surround systems.The film follows a group of soldiers of the 2nd Ranger Batallion who
valiantly agree to tackle a brutal mission where the subject is a young
trooper by the name of James Francis Ryan who unknowingly as lost his 3
brothers in combat. After his mother receives the news, the chief of
staff of the U.S army orders the Generals to inform Captain Miller (Tom
Hanks) that he is to locate Private Ryan and release from his duties in
combat in order for him to return safely to his grieving mother.The film follows the group of soldiers as they go to extraordinary
lengths in order to 'Save Private Ryan' which involves the death of two
soldier's, the medic Irwin Wade (Giovanni Ribisi) and Private Adrian
Caparzo (Vin Diesel), along with the massacre of a number of German and
French troops. After the soldiers locate their subject, they break the
news to him and despite understandably being crippled with grief,
Private Ryan displays extreme reluctance to lead his camp which
provokes mixed emotions towards him. Firstly, it's easy to appreciate
his nobility and his loyalty towards his duties but this is juxtaposed
with a feeling of disdain simply because he initially doesn't
appreciate the lengths that the soldier's have went to in order to fin
him, whilst abandoning their original duties in the army.Spelberg's direction is awe-inspired and flawless. He masterfully
captures the brutality of combat in the 22-minute opening scene where
there is blood, guts and gunfire in abundance. Does blood and guts make
for a great depiction of war combat? Definitely not, but it's
Spielberg's direction which involves extreme close-ups of casualties
and of course, the blood and rain onto the camera lens is an effective
technique. Spielberg is very impressive as he makes the viewer realise
the pain and suffering, the desperation and sometimes futility of
hard-fought combat. Contrary to these portrayals, he is equally
effective in engaging the audience into positive emotions such as a
feeling of triumph when the soldiers under the command of Captain
Miller penetrate the German infantry on Omaha beach when it looked
clear that the soldiers where in a desperate struggle against the
Germans. The acting in this movie is not fantastic, it's not supposed to be. The
movie, unlike so many others in the modern-day film industry, does not
depend on the acting of the main protagonists in order for it to
achieve on a number of levels. The acting, however, is impressive and
believable. Believable being the operative word. Hanks and co. are very
believable in terms of struggling to overcome adversity in its
extremist form and battling the almost overwhelmingly brutal elements
of combat. The film is particularly recognised for its intense opening scene set
on the beach of Omaha, Normandy but in my opinion, the movie is
entertaining, intense and captivating throughout the duration. It has
no spells of boredom, there are no dull and listless sequences of
dialogue. The dialogue sustains credibility, humour and purity.This film won 5 academy awards, it should have won more. It received
accolades for direction, obviously and also won for cinematography and
sound editing whilst the Best Picture went Shakespeare in Love (sigh).Overall, this is a masterpiece. An intense and brutal depiction of the
elements of war. It does to an extent glorify American soldiers
considering that a number of soldiers abandoned their respective duties
in order to retrieve an unknown private but it does it in an engrossing
manner. The script is solid, which is all it needs to be, the same goes
with the acting but the cinematography, editing and effects are
astonishing. Truly breathtaking. This is the best Spielberg film I have
ever watched (I haven't seen Schindler's List) 10/10! Pure cinematic
mastery!

******
16 April 2009
10
Saving private ryan was incredible from the get go, the violence
emotion and the acting was perfect. there was funny bits like when the
big guy chucks his helmet at a nazi then shoots him with a pistol and
when you watch this film you'll notice the same stuff was used in most
war games. but why hasn't a Vietnam war film like platoon or apocalypse
now not as good as this saving private ryan?
....................................................................
The reason is that as i am Australian and i notice when propaganda
films are made and saving private ryan made the Nazis look like vicious
horrible humans that's not far from what they really where. BUT in a
Vietnam war film that's made by Americans (platoon,Apoco now) they make
it look like war is bad because the vicious disgusting Americans start
stupid wars over nothing but in world war 2 the Americans where the
good guys and that's easy to portrait. Now the Americans once again are
fighting a war over nothing in iraq and Afghanistan but the Vietnamies
didn't have access to nukes but the middle east might. So what im
trying to say is Americans can make a person be proud of there country
or cry for what has happened but they can't dismiss the past for what
actually took place in Vietnam. (BTW Charlie Cheen acted badly in
Platoon which didn't help and i saw tropic thunder before Platoon which
buggered it up for me.)

******
5 April 2009
10
This is a Steven Speilburg masterpiece that will teach future
generations what WWII was like. War is pure hell. And this is the
strong message in this well deserved R rating. Even with the language
filtered (which was my only disappointment) this movie is on the verge
of the NC-17. Nobody wanted to see what war was like. But Steven
Speilburg made them anyway. When I saw this movie, my view of war
changed. I had no idea of all the deaths and pain our soldiers went
through to make the US a better country to live in. Body parts flying
everywhere, a man that had his face blown off, blood spraying in all
directions, men trying finding their missing limbs and men lying in
their own intestines. And that's just the first 30 minutes in the Omaha
beach scene. Like I said, this is a strong and moving film that is not
for the weak stomach or for people that don't want to know what war was
really like. I dare you to watch this movie and not be moved by the
strong story and captivating effects that is "Saving Private Ryan."

******
17 March 2009
10
This is a very good movie. One of the best war movie ever made. Not
because it has lots of intense action, but because it captures the more
emotional, human side of war. It is not covered in sugar, but gives it
to you as it is. Lots of blood and gore as real war is. One of the best
made. Defiantly lets you feel connected to the characters. Upham kinda
sucks, but he is human so you cant blame him. I look like Upham.
SPoiler>>>>Germans lose.I look like Upham. SPoiler>>>>Germans loseI
look like Upham. SPoiler>>>>Germans lose I look like Upham.
SPoiler>>>>Germans loseI look like Upham. SPoiler>>>>Germans lose I
look like Upham. SPoiler>>>>Germans lose I look like Upham.
SPoiler>>>>Germans lose

******
8 August 2008
10
This is definitely the best war movie ever made. It starts out like
every movie should, on the shores of Normandy Beach, with blood
spraying and body parts flying and explosions and gunfire and
everything.Then the dust settles, and out of it emerge the soldiers that will
become almost your buddies, if not your companions, throughout the
movie.That is why it is shocking, after all these characters reveal
themselves and you know them so well, when almost all of them die.I'll be honest, I shed some tears at the end of this movie. You have
got to be a robot with no tear ducts not to cry.This movie touched me like very few, if none, have, despite the fact
I'm not even American-born. Great, great movie.

******
23 November 2006
10
This movie defined the modern definition of the war movie. It was told
through the eyes of if not the greatest director in our
history(Spielberg) It is played out perfectly by Tom Hanks who I was
not a big fan of till I seen this movie. Everything seems so real and
is as if you are there with the soldiers fighting for your country.
This is by far the greatest war movie ever played out. Everyone played
there spot to perfection and acted the best they could. i think the
story is very precise . The first 10 minutes of the movie are shocking
yet a cinematic masterpiece. Every minute is breathtaking and shows you
the horrors of war and friendship. An how one name determined them to
save him. It is a story of teamwork and what they did to help each
other out. I give this movie an 11 out of 10.

******
26 August 2006
9
Saving Private Ryan is one of the best war movies ever. Not one of the
best films, but the best war movies ever. The only bad part of the film
is the lost of the war of the men that fought for the war. However, the
script is wonderfully made, the effects and the sound is excellent.
Steven Spielberg's direction is incredible on this project. One part of
the film is when there's a family where the father gave away his
daughter, that became suspenseful because the emotion on the kid's face
is too emotional to watch. However the girl goes back to her father,
however in that scene a solider gets killed from a sniper. The most
bloodiest part of the film is the end which is a MUST SEE. Snipers, gun
shots, bombs, a man the kills a solider with a knife. TOO BLOODY,
however a must see movie. No kids are allowed to see this unless with
accompanied adult, if you allow you kid to watch it, they will have
nightmares.

******
2 March 2005
9
This film is brilliant because it trys to get as close to realism as is
possible and we need films like this every now and then to show us what
went on in a different time . For me its the ending not the start that
makes it although that start is unforgettable and brilliant but also
devastatingly terrible .But the one thing that I marvel at is that men
did that I cannot imagine where guys found the bravery to run up a
beach and return fire in the face of that devastating machine gun fire
.The one message that I think the whole movie conveys is one of ordinary
men going to war and changing history the way they did for me the whole
movie is summed up by Tom Hanks admission that he is a school teacher
to put this in perspective think back to your old school teachers can
you think of one of them who you would think capable of doing what his
character did during this film or what the others did are any of us
capable that is questions that this movie asks of us all while at the
same time giving us the answers about a small part of war .Everybody should watch this movie as it is seminal and it does bring
home some very stark realities if you don't like it then maybe you
should continue to watch old John Wayne movies where the bullets
bounced off of people and soldiers on the Allied side ran through
enfilading fire without any of them getting hit.One day I hope Speilburg and Hanks collaborate on either a story on
Okinawa , Iwojima American stories or Maybe Kohima a British and Indian
story all 3 of these particular battles were all murderous in their own
way and also It would bring to light a forgotten war because WWII did
not just happen in europe

******
7 February 2005
10
I simply love this movie! It's a masterpiece. Steven Spielberg has
proved yet again that he is a genius. Tom Hanks performs an outstanding
role in this movie. He's my favourite actor, among the few who won 2
consecutive Oscars. This movie enhances every sensation felt by those
brave little soldiers. It's so realistic.I'm just amazed Hanks didn't win an Oscar 4 his performance, i mean he
was just breathtaking. "With each man i kill, the farther from home i
feel" - this quote leaves me speechless, it's so meaningful. I like this movie because it's atypical. The main character dies in the
end, unlike in most war movies. I think this adds flavour to it.

******
4 January 2005
10
This is a masterpiece. I love war movies, but this one beats them all,
hands-down. Not just for its graphic, realistic depiction of being in
the middle of battle, but also for the incredible characters that are
developed, and the quiet, intimate moments, where a soldier's sadness,
loneliness, depression, and fear all start to kick in. If you've seen
"Platoon", "Full Metal Jacket", "The Thin Red Line", "Casualties of
War", "Hamburger Hill", "We Were Soldiers", or any other war film, you
need to see "Saving Private Ryan". It is the war movie by which all
others will be judged for a very long time, maybe even forever. There
are no words that can do it justice. This is the only movie I can give
a "10" rating to, because in my mind, it literally is the perfect war
movie in every sense. You will not be disappointed.

******
25 February 2014
2
I guess you must have to be an American to really get and love this
movie because it's about American soldiers acting typically
super-heroic and everything.The entire movie is based on a platoon of guys who get sent into the
deep and dangerous territory behind enemy lines to save the Private
Ryan of the title of the film.Apparently all his brothers have all been killed in the war so the
government doesn't want their mother to lose her last son because it
would be a huge public relations catastrophe so they send in a group of
guys and risk a bunch of lives just to try to get this one specific
soldier out.I liked some of the combat scenes but mostly I was just bored and
thought they were too obviously and deliberately trying to pull at
heart strings and wave the U.S. flag around.

******
4 April 2012
1
Among all Spielberg's movies that I saw at the festival, this is the
only one when I felt nothing leaving out except being disappointed and
angry. Worst, I felt like this as soon as the first scene. Seeing this
old man walking alone with his wife and family trotting behind was like
a slap at my face. At this old age and having survived the war, it was
extremely selfish for him to act like this. Having watched buddies
killed and thus never experienced their family life, it was like he
haven't learn anything of this trauma, for him or for them.Next, we are thrown at D-Day. It's the more interesting part of the
movie: the value of any single soldier's life is dramatically
visualized: those poor guys who got killed as soon as they opened the
door of their boats are the true noble and courageous ones. They were
sent to slaughter but they stick to their orders. For that matter,
during WWI, a relative of my grand mother died the same way: In spite
of being terribly myopic, he was among the first to be sent at the
front and as it's above all rabbles, he lost his glasses and was killed
immediately. Personally, I would never have behaved like them because I
would have gone awol as much to not be killed as to not kill. At this
moment, Spielberg's takes you in the guts and he may be the first
director to show how bloody and stupid the war is. But as his trademark and sensibility lead him to find hope in this
complete darkness, the story becomes a rescue mission. It could have
been moving but the characters of this platoon is rather a band of
capricious and lunatic soldiers: one wants to hang on with a child, the
other left a German alive, the one that killed them later and finally,
we met again with Mr. Ego who doesn't want to leave because he has a
bridge to defend. Sure, as they stay there, they got all killed. Well,
it was too much for me: I don't understand how Spielberg wanted the
audience to relate with such stupidity . A life later, this private
Ryan remains totally shameful as he rejects his family and I really
wonder if he should have been left behind instead.Pairing: "1941" a good laugh at WWII but not for the same reasons.

******
27 March 2010
7
There's a fairly standard narrative in war films today: that wars are
hell, but that the men who fight them deserve our respect, and it's
perhaps unsurprising that Stephen Spielberg's film about the Normandy
landings essentially repeats the message. The movie's structure: an
initial battle, an interlude, and then a concluding fight, is also
typical; and background music, slow motion scenes and a present day
top-and-tail to the story are added in to make sure that the audience
knows what to think. In spite of this, it's not a bad film, fully
depicting the chaotic horror of war and resisting the temptation to
easily close at least some of its subplots; although on other
occasions, it's too clear how a given tale is going to end. A bigger
problem for me, however, was the absence of a character I could really
care about: Tom Hanks's hero is just too heroic for me to care about,
not in a silly way but a character for us to admire rather than for us
to feel empathy for. Although a lengthy movie, it didn't feel like one;
but in the end, I didn't feel moved by its respectful conclusion.

******
15 December 2007
10
Yes, this may sound like blasphemy, but yes, Saving Private Ryan (SPR)
is better than Apocalypse Now. How exactly? Well, for one thing, while
sharing some themes, SPR is just so much more moving than Apocalypse
Now. and, at least SPR doesn't go on, and on, and on, and on. Don't get
me wrong, I liked Apocalypse Now, but SPR just didn't leave you with
the feeling that there's no hope for the world, it left you with the
feeling that there's hope for the world, that there's hope for
humanity. And that it may be easy to descend into the heart of
darkness, it's just as easy to ascend into the heart of light.And as I was saying from the beginning, about how SPR is more moving
than AN, in the first 24 minutes I felt like crying. Watching all those
people dying, imploding, exploding, being amputated, and etc. I
realized, that had I been 18 in 1945, I could have been one of those
people. And I further realized, that one person in that film
represented 10 others, and that was just a softened version of the
great D-Day Invasion.Saving Private Ryan also brilliantly showed how the suits in Washington
thought of their soldiers. As Risk (copyright by Parker Brothers and
Hasbro Co.) pieces. preferring to send 19 or so soldiers to their death
to satisfy an unhappy mother, than send them home.Saving Private Ryan is by far my most favorite war movie. (1. Saving
Private Ryan. 2. Glory. 3. Apocalypse Now.) It has won 5 Oscars,
deserved every single one, and more, and is one of the best movies out
there.

******
7 April 2007
8
First of all I would like to say, I thoroughly enjoyed this film, and
historically it was right on the ball for the landings and the
subsequent movement of the other American troops.However, after doing a lot of research on D-Day, I was really
disappointed in the way the filmmakers seemed to leave out important
facts about the others who got involved in the war, primarily the
British and the Canadians, who sent thousands of troops in to other
beeches and didn't even get a mention. Another example of Hollywood
feeding Americas "We single handedly saved the world" ego.However, like I said, a fantastic film, great actors and a great
pulsating story filled with some amazing war shots and some great
dialogue between characters, "Earn it!".Now i now this film was primarily about saving private Ryan and not so
much about D-Day in depth, I think this is a fantastic opportunity for
Hollywood to make an in-depth film about D-Day, by that I mean the
intensive three year planning that had begun even before America joined
the war, the RAF missions over Callais and other bluffs to make the
Germans convicned the attack was coming there, even during the middle
D-Day they were still convinced that another wave would hit elsewhere.
And prehaps more about the thousands of paratroopers who took out the
legendary Pegasus Bridge in the early hours of the morning to hold the
entire post invasion operation together.However, random tangent aside, I highly recommend this film to anyone
who is interested in history, it is incredibly accurate in all the
other area apart from where I mentioned.I gave it 8 *

******
13 September 2006
8
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN stands alongside SCHINDLER'S LIST as one of Steven
Spielberg's greatest achievements as a director. And just recently, I
had the pleasure of re-discovering his EMPIRE OF THE SUN, and realized
then how well he captures on film the horror and brutality of war
without going in for stereotyped characters.During the '40s, when war films were largely produced for propaganda
purposes and for injecting much needed patriotism into all Americans
while we fought Hitler and Mussolini and the Japanese, we had films
like A WALK IN THE SUN or GUADALCANAL DIARY or SO PROUDLY WE HAIL. All
of them were fine, in their own way, but often resorted to creating
Hollywood stereotypes among the characters, the soldiers and nurses who
fought during the war.Not true here. From the startling twenty-minute opening sequence on the
D-day invasion, through the intricacies of inter-personal relationships
among a disparate group of men, we never once feel we're watching
stereotypes but real people. All of the performances are first-rate,
beginning with TOM HANKS, whose everyman personality is put to
excellent use here. Others too numerous to mention do great jobs in the
large supporting cast.No cheap heroics here, just a compelling war story, extremely well done
and holding interest from beginning to end. Recommended highly.Trivia note: John Williams' score is never intrusive enough to damage
the stark reality of some of the most brutal scenes.

******
1 June 2004
10
Before I saw "Saving Private Ryan" I wasn't interested in anything WWII
related. Every time there was a documentary on I would change the
channel, I couldn't stand classics such as "The Guns of Navarone", "The
Eagle Has Landed" and "The Longest Day", I even didn't liked
"Schindler's List". And then I saw "Saving Private Ryan"..."Saving Private Ryan" is more than just an ordinary war movie. Its
realism makes it important to watch for the entire world. It shows the
horrors of war in a very direct way. It is mainly important to see for
the young generation these days and those to come. Sure you can watch
tons of documentaries and read dozens of books but watching this movie
is the closest you can get to the real thing, it's that realistic.The first 30 minutes is a real wake up call. The Normandy invasion is
really impressive and made very realistic with lots of noise and body
parts flying around. The cinematography and the sound makes you feel
like you are right in the middle of it. Yes, after that the movie
becomes a bit slow but it never becomes uninteresting. The movie takes
its time to build up the characters. As a result there follow some
typical Spielberg sentiments but in this case I'll forgive him for
that, I even forgive him for some of the American patriotism he puts in
the movie.The D-Day landing isn't the only impressive thing about this movie. All
of the battle sequences are filmed in an unique and very realistic way.
The final battle is very tense, especially in the beginning when the
tension gets build up right before the battle begins and you can hear
the tanks approaching while the men nervously await. My heartbeat went
at least 3 times faster than normal.I also like the portrayal of the German soldiers. In most other earlier
movies they were portrayed as the ultimate bad guys that love to march
and kill and follow every order they receive without thinking for them
selves. In "Saving Private Ryan" they are more portrayed as just
soldiers. Sure they do some bad things in the movie but so do the
American soldiers, shooting surrendering Germans for instance. "Saving
Private Ryan" show that there are no real good guys in war, which is
very close to the truth I think.The characters are very realistic with real emotions. It also doesn't
matter in the movie if you're a main character or the most interesting
character of the movie, just like in real life everybody is vulnerable.
The characters are wonderfully portrayed by an at the time and still
relatively unknown cast, with the exception of Tom Hanks and Matt Damon
of courseThe movie and its style set the standards for many later war movies to
come but none of them comes really close to this masterpiece.10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/

******
18 January 2000
4
I saw this movie yesterday and thought it was a poorly made movie.
There were few parts here and there which were truly touching and
realistic, but otherwise I did not enjoy the movie. Spielberg said he
made this movie as a tribute to the soldiers who lost their lives, he
failed to deliver on that tribute. For the great sacrifice we made for
the freedom, this was a half-hearted tribute. Tom Hanks fails to
deliver as a captain, he is Tom Hanks all through the movie, not Capt.
John Miller. Tom Siezemore and Edward Burns steal the show. Matt Damon
had very small role, I don't understand why would he worship just John
Miller and not others ? Does not make sense(except Dir wanted to add
some emotion that was not build up). I mean the two hardly knew each
other, just like the other soldiers.Also, it was insulting to see soldiers hang out like a bunch of
high-school drop outs calling each other "morons" and so on. Did that
sort of thing happen back in 1944 ? I don't know for sure but it surely
does not fit into the scheme of things...May be I had too high an expectation from the movie, in any case I
would give it ** out of *****. No Oscar for Spielberg. Supporting Actor
Oscar for Tom Siezemore or Edward Burns or even the frightened kid
would be good nominations.

******
25 June 2007
7
Summary Saving Private Ryan a good movie, but it is a times painfully
sentimental, American centred and, while suggesting realism,
historically flawed.Sentimental because the movie is laden with strong emotional moments.
The most marked of which is the one when the aged Ryan drops to his
knees at the grave of a the captain who saved him exclaiming, "did i do
good?".American centered because, while the us characters are lifelike all
others are not. Most absurd are the Germans. For instance the climax of
the movie sees the us cast being attacked by SS men. SS where no that
old(average age of SS rank and file was between 17-21)but they where
also not bald. Nor all that ugly. Nor that inept(front assaults with
what is obvious a 20 mm gun is a laugh, tiger tanks where general
deployed in groups, not in single instances, tanks where usually
covered by infantry to prevent them from being ambushed by enemy
infantry etc.) But most of all: there where no SS at that moment in
time at that place. The SS units moving up to Normandy which could have
intervened where delayed by an exceptional campaign of sabotage and
interdictions. The airborne where in fact opposed by regular infantry
and the unreliable ost-truppen most of the time. The only crack units
that crossed swords with the airborne in early June where the
fallschirmjaeger unit's near ST Lo. These did not posses tiger tanks. The story while breathing an air of being historically true is in fact
mostly true to the American part, all the others are just to embellish
the story. In this movie the US cast had to fight the SS equipped with
tigertanks because in the US mind frame that was the best the Germans
had to offer. (ironically: an inquiry among us soldier what they feared
most put the tiger tank at the top of the list, it's ironical because
of the 1350 odd produced tiger tanks 2/3 went to the east-front, 1/3 to
the south and west front. What reached the Normandy front(running the
gauntlet of interdictions and sabotage) where mostly deployed against
the English sector and not the US sector(yes more than 50% of the
forces landed where non us). The chance therefore that the us airborne
would have been facing tigertanks in the early days of the invasion was
equal to zero. And then the strange plot twists. The main characters land on Omaha
beach, giving birth to one of the most intense movie scenes every
filmed. It had to be Omaha because it was the hardest fought for. But
then comes the weird part: the heroes are charged with saving Ryan who
could have been better reached with less hassle by starting from Utah
beach, which was closer to the drop zones and less opposed by the
Germans. No the logical move would be to be shipped to the other beach
but instead the story let's the saviors take a round-abound trip of 30
odd kilometres through enemy held territory without any explanation
given. The movie wasn't aiming to be the historically accurate, it was
a movie which made heroes of soldiers who did their job, despite
misgivings and in the face of adversity. I somehow feel that the way
the movie display heroism is wrong, that it is detracted in the way
this movies tells the story. The stories main emotion is exemplified by
the sentimental looking guy who looks at the stars thinking of home,
murmuring something about the cakes his mother made for him when he was
ten. Investigations into the mindset of the average soldier paints
another picture. Home was another planet, there was no time to look at
the stars, if you had that time, you went to sleep, for there was
always a lack of sleep. If you didn't sleep you ate or drank. Instead
of creating a band, veteran soldiers shut themselves of from others
because most of those others would be dead within a months time. There
might have been a band, but it wasn't one of brothers. It was a band of
survivors. Like Letters of Iwo Jima it isn't an overtly political
statement, but it is historically flawed and overtly sentimental to the
point of being untrue. Nevertheless it is still a good movie that should be looked at as being
fiction and the sentimental part can be skipped and the historical
vaults forgiven.

******
30 July 2006
1
I can't understand how it got anywhere NEAR the top 50. Unbelievable.
Tom Hanks (to use an American-ism) really sucks (as usual). Although I
will say that if the intent was to make an awful film then the choice
of an equally awful main actor would be the case... so, no surprises
here. i don't mean to offend the people who liked this film, really.
It's just that in the same page I noticed Apocalypse Now... and I
thought, no no no, this just can't happen. I'm no fan of war et/o war
films, but Apocalypse Now is art. This... well... is not. I remember
the indescribable fear I had the year it was candidated for the Oscars.
I nearly cried when I saw the results.... and they were not tears of
happiness

******
26 April 2006
2
I'm a big fan of Spielberg generally. But this film was garbage. As
some other reviewers have said: the war sequence at the start was very
powerful and well filmed. But the rest of the film was nonsense. The story beyond the opening was particularly weak, the characters were
largely clichéd and not particularly interesting. The soldiers
seemingly took turns at pointless Hollywood monologues in a blatant to
give the film more self-importance than the script was failing to
deliver aloneNot impressed at all and the ending was not too bad but not incredibly
satisfying either.

******
12 December 1999
1

Now I'm doing something forbidden: I'm comparing this movie, Saving Private
Ryan with the other anti-war movie released same year, The Thin Red Line,
although it's two movies which are so much different because they're hardly
in the same genre. I happened to see The Thin Red Line first in the theatre
which was a tremendeous experience to me. After that I saw Saving Private
Ryan and I thought it was a huge step down from the Terrence Mallick
masterpiece about Guadalcanal which I'm afraid was released the worst time
possible. I definitely believe that the succes of SPR has something to do
with the Oscar winning director Steven Spielberg who's a certain winner
every time. But I look at SPR as a way too classical movie with the classic
white vs black scenario. Not much more than an easily digestive action film
which has great effects and great action but nothing that gets to me like
The Thin Red Line did it. Sorry, Spielberg.

******
18 October 1998
1

I just saw "Saving Private Ryan" and I can say that it was a very good and
realistic movie but I didn't feel it...I was shocked from the violent scenes
ok ...and the directing was marvelous from Spielberg and all technical
details were excellent but it hadn't emotion.I believe "Titanic" was much
much better ...my opinion!
thanx

******
13 February 2007
3
Saving Private Ryan. This movie is considered a classic? But i ask you
what is classic about something so gay? The answer, everything. To
review this movie in a positive and energetic manner would be
troublesome and false. This movie had a bad script, bad special effects
and contains one of the worst scenes in history. The scene is the one
where the sniper gets shoot through the scope. TERRIBLE. The story is
so predictable and the character development it poor. Tisk Tisk.Tom Hanks. His worst acting performance to date. Compare this
performance to his best work (Turner and Hooch) and you see that his
acting is terrible and embarrassing. I felt ill after watching this
movie and it wasn't because of the cheesy gore. Tom Hanks, hang your
head in shame.To sum up and reiterate, this movie is terrible, dry, predictable,
sloppy, riddled with editor's mistakes and a complete misinterpretation
of World War 2.For a good WW2 movie watch the classic, Hercules in New York.

******
23 November 2005
8
What Steven Spielberg has done with "Saving Private Ryan" is
simultaneously craft an enormously successful depiction of World War
II, and a touching story that places a platoon of bewildered soldiers
in a world of frantic pacing -- a startling world of gunfire and
proceeding death. The constant movement of the shaky hand-held camera
acts as a first person perspective -- we are not merely viewing the
movie, but participating in it. This is perhaps as close as we will
ever get to realizing the unadulterated fear those soldiers must have
felt as they drew nearer to the beaches of France. It is one of the
greatest war films ever put on celluloid, its scope arguably larger
than any other in the genre, its conflict superb.The movie, based on the actual events surrounding the Nilan brothers
during World War II, is about a group of soldiers sent to rescue
Private Ryan (Matt Damon), a young man who loses three brothers in the
war, and whose mother is spared the possible chance of losing her
remaining son after Captain Miller (Tom Hanks) and his platoon are sent
on a dangerous mission to find, and return, Private Ryan to safety.The men who fight alongside Miller have to question their own actions.
What makes Private Ryan more important than any of them? They all have
mothers, too. But they follow orders, venturing into the battlefields
of WWII France in search of Private Ryan. The most reluctant of the
soldiers is Private Reiben (Edward Burns), a pessimistic everyman who
feels no need to risk his own life for that of another man.The battle scenes are ultimately what made "Saving Private Ryan" one of
the highest-grossing films of the decade, and what enticed so many
eager viewers into theaters. Many veterans of the war reportedly broke
down in tears during one of the first sequences, the landing at Omaha
Beach, which probably lasts about fifteen minutes -- at least.However, the movie also reaches a sort of emotional height that few
other war films manage to capture. This is a fascinating account of
war, packed with terrifyingly realistic scenes and some of the most
disturbing images you will ever see in a mainstream film, but it also
has a lot to say about friendship and selfless motivations. "Earn
this," Captain Miller tells Private Ryan at one point in the film.Spielberg has proved countless times that he is capable of abandoning
his famously schmaltzy style of film-making to record touching stories
that often times relate to his own life. Spielberg claims that he felt
an internal desire to tackle this project, as much as he felt it was
necessary to direct "Schindler's List." Both films work as a sort of
documentary-style motion picture, but also contain fundamental
emotional truths, which elevate them to higher ground.Tom Hanks, as Captain Miller, is not the first actor who comes to mind
when one thinks of war picture, but Hanks' position in the film works
(to great effect) primarily because he personifies the everyman quality
of a soldier. As we too often forget, the men who fight wars are not
always the Schwarzeneggers with huge muscles and a wealth of weapons
and ammunition. The soldiers in World War II were fathers, husbands,
brothers, sons. Hanks successfully embodies the image of a simple man
who is thrust into a world war and tries his best to stay alive.Is "Saving Private Ryan" a better movie than "Apocalypse Now,"
"Platoon," or other great war pictures in the genre? Not necessarily.
But it stands on its own as an amazing achievement of pure film-making,
and an ode to the thousands of men who lost their lives for the
campaign against Hitler's armies. If you can stomach the violence and
accurate depictions of brutal warfare, "Saving Private Ryan" is one of
the most moving cinematic experiences you will ever have.

******
5 November 1999
9

Saving Private Ryan is a true horror movie.  I watched it because I wanted
to see a good action movie but the opening sequence really scared the hell
out of me and the movie left me pondering over it for hours afterwords.It's great that there is a movie that shows war's effects on the human body
and mind rather than a toned down political chess game.  This movie has some
amazing cinematography with lots of gray colors to add to the gloom.Spielburg always manages to create movies that stir up emotions like no
other director can.  Spielburg and George Lucas are the dynamic duo of
cinema.

******
22 October 2013
1
the title of this movie is uncreative and it lacks of nice and cool
words, probably the second worst movie title i have ever seen. (the
intouchables is the worst) Who made this name? probably a lame person. this is the lyrics of my favorite song (only the first verse and
chorus): You ain't nothing but a hound dog Cryin all the time. You
ain't nothing but a hound dog Cryin all the time. Well, you ain't never
caught a rabbit And you ain't no friend of mine. When they said you was high classed, Well, that was just a lie. When
they said you was high classed, Well, that was just a lie. You ain't
never caught a rabbit And you ain't no friend of mine.yours sincerelyLord Gjermund Bae

******
2 February 2013
9
Yes, this is the best war movie ever made. Yes, it should have won the
Oscar for Best Picture. The Academy sank to the level of the Nobel
Prize with this slight. Yes, it is about WW2, in which the Allies were
the good guys and the Germans were the bad guys. Unfortunately, by the
Hated It reviews, it appears that there continue to be people of German
heritage who expected Spielberg to be evenhanded in his treatment of
WW2. Silly Germans and unreconstructed Nazi sympathizers - your guys
started a war, committed genocide, and had to be destroyed. That's
reality.There also appear to be a good number of non-US reviewers who hate this
movie simply because it was made in the US, from the US point of view.
I can certainly understand the envy that mouth-breathing countries have
of the US. The opening sequence might be the most intense 20 minutes in movie
history. Sorry Germans but it was necessary to kill your people in the
invasion. Yup, we even killed some German soldiers who wanted to
surrender. Oops! The Americans sent to rescue Private Ryan weren't all
saints, which is reality, but NONE of the Germans killed in this movie
were saints. The worst American was far more moral than the best Nazi.
The story is about Americans soldiers who did their jobs, many killed
in the process. BTW, the Americans could have but did not commit
genocide against the conquered Germans.

******
9 September 2008
8
I do not see a whole lot of war movies, but "Saving Private Ryan" is
definitely an exception. This film simply has a fascinating plot and
great dialogue between the soldiers. The film tells the story of a
group of soldiers who must find private James Ryan (Matt Damon) and
send him home to his mother, as she realizes that her three other sons
were killed in battle. The rest of the film deals with issues such as
deciding whether saving a man's life is worth losing several lives of
your own soldiers and to what extent one must be loyal to their given
orders. Tom Hanks could have (and probably should have) won an Oscar
for his role, as he pulls off each scene amazingly well, as usual. The
interactions between him and the soldiers, especially Private Ryan, are
perfectly done, proof of Spielberg's excellent directing. What prevents
the film from being entirely perfect is the overall lack of scenes with
dialogue. So much of the film (at least 60%) is made up of battle
scenes. Although the depictions of war are very realistic and well
done, they tend to drag on too long. It's the dialogue scenes and the
decisions the characters must make that make the film as great as it
is, but more of those scenes are needed to keep the audience engaged.
Nevertheless, an excellent depiction of war, great direction, and great
acting make this a very monumental and interesting film. Definitely
worthwhile and important to see.***1/2 out of ****

******
8 July 2005
2
Steven Spielberg's 1998 exercise in Oscar-mongering is a compilation of
effects and impressions from all the war movies he's ever seen, decked
out with precise instructions about what to think in Robert Rodat's
script and how to feel in John Williams's hokey music. There's
something here for everybody--war is hell (Sam Fuller), war is father
figures (Oliver Stone), war is absurd (David Lean, Stanley Kubrick),
war is necessary (John Ford), war is surreal (Francis Coppola), war is
exciting (Robert Aldrich), war is upsetting (all of the preceding and
Lewis Milestone), war is uplifting (ditto)--and nothing that suggests
an independent vision, unless you count seeing more limbs blown off
than usual (the visceral opening sequence, showing Omaha Beach on June
6, 1944) or someone getting graphically shot underwater. The story is
about a squad trying to find and send home a private whose three older
brothers have already been killed in World War II; it's a mission
ordered by General George C. Marshall (backed by the authority of
Abraham Lincoln, who's backed in turn by Spielberg) and executed by Tom
Hanks, a captain named John instead of Joe. It has a few pretty good
action moments (including a climax straight out of the Indiana Jones
trilogy), a lot of spilled guts, a few moments of drama that don't seem
phony or hollow, some fairly strained period ambiance, and a bit of
sentimental morphing that reminds me of Forrest Gump; it also lasts the
better part of three hours. With Tom Sizemore, Matt Damon, Edward
Burns, Jeremy Davies, Vin Diesel, Adam Goldberg, and Barry Pepper.

******
19 October 1999
1

Following the example of JAWS and L.A. CONFIDENTIAL, Steven Spielberg's
cinematic masterpiece falls victim to the idiocy of the Academy Awards.
SAVING PRIVATE RYAN is arguably the best picture of the year and one of the
best of all time. The performances are perfect throughout, and the
characters are very well-written. This is doubtlessly the most historically
accurate movie I've ever seen. Even the dialogue is perfectly written, with
surprisingly close attention paid to the accuracy of even the mildest, most
casual and briefly-dealt-with topics of conversation. The battle scenes are
excellent, and the carnage is both realistic and necessary to add to the
film's power. And the underscoring, subtle and sparingly used, is truly
beautiful.SAVING PRIVATE RYAN will go down in history. It makes us both understand
and
appreciate the sacrifices made by our soldiers over 50 years ago.
Thought-provoking, shocking, effectively dramatic, beautifully made, and
highly intriguing, this movie is a brilliant example of cinematic
art.

******
9 May 2005
2
This movie was overall a great movie. --BUT-- (big scary letters) But
only the first 20 minutes were actually historic. I know maybe it
wasn't meant to all be historic but doesn't a war movie usually have to
be like the real thing? The actual Omaha beach scene at the start is
the only real historic event, the rest is all fictional. Thoug I cannot
reveal why it is not all fictional I can still tell you that whatever
the movie describes and/or you think it is, war is not always actually
like what you see.War is gruesome, painful, depressing (x 9222845363), terrible, and
basically it is one of the most horrible things that can ever happen.
Dying is not horrible, as everyone is meant to die, but the pain and
agony and all the other things that go along with war is.So basically I'd like to stick to more historically accurate movies.Also, America FORGOT (OR MAYBE JUST DIDN'T WANT TO INCLUDE) THE
COUNTRIES THAT DID MOST OF THE DIRTY WORK!!!!! LIKE CANADA!!!!!!! LIKE
GREAT Britain!!!!!!!! HOW CAN YOU FORGET THEM
TOO???????????????????????????????????????? Also, the movie was incredibly corny. It was not true AT ALL except for
the first 20 minutes. It's like they say about North American cars and
European cars: THEY ADD MORE GADGETS AND TAKE AWAY ALL THE QUALITY!Yet we must remember the ones whom actually fought. Lest we forget.

******
3 August 2007
8
Compared to other WWII movies I've seen, this one stands out. The
opening battle of Omaha Beach was intense. It made me feel like I'd
been there. The closing battle was also frighteningly realistic. The
scene where the platoon's respite is interrupted by the rumbling of
tanks was white-knuckle scary. It wasn't entirely free from clichés.
The scene where Ryan's mother is told about the news of her sons'
deaths was sad, but....a farm in the heartland? It would have been more
powerful if she lived on a city block in New York or San Francisco. I
didn't like the scene where Matt Damon's character is clutching his
ankles and rocking while crying in the midst of battle. I don't think
many GI's would do that. It was also far-fetched and inexplicable why
the Nazi soldier would descend a staircase and pass a cowering GI with
nine yards of machine gun bullets draped over his shoulder without
killing him in he midst of a desperate battle. Still, the movie was a
triumph.

******
7 August 2006
2
After years of avoiding, I finally got around to viewing SPR.
Considering the hype--I was expecting greatness--I got---a 3 Hr
rehashing of Schindler's List masquerading as an action-flick.Though not the worst film, or the worst WWII movie, it certainly is
among the most overrated. The D-Day landing sequence is horrific,
riveting and emotionally numbing, a true landmark in film-making.
Realistic?--wouldn't know--wasn't there--my uncle was, and from certain
things he spoke of--seems fairly accurate. Then there's the rest of the
movie....There are plenty of reviews pointing out historical, tactical, writing,
acting and directing flaws. That's all minor stuff, hardly worth
mentioning--I can overlook a lot of warts when I'm in love. I couldn't
even build up a mild affection for this film. After numerous sacrifices
by much worthier individuals, the only people who survive are the most
undeserving, self-absorbed, venal and craven of the characters in the
film. Then, after living an apparently good life(surrounded as he is by
loving family members), not even the title character can justify those
sacrifices on his behalf. As for the typist--is everyone insane or just
daft? He shoots the German to cover up his cowardice, NOT because he
finds his inner Rambo.Deep? Maybe for a mud puddle. According to SPR the Great Generation was
so because of the sacrifices of their betters and their own need to
live up to the implied expectations of those sacrifices. How droll. If
you want a Great war movie, there are many--A Bridge too Far,
Gallipoli, The Big Red One, Tora Tora Tora, All Quiet on the Western
Front, Das Boot, Bridge Over The River Kwai---These are all WAY better
movies, and None of them could be classified as droll---go watch one or
all, you won't be sorry.

******
10 June 2005
7
The movie opens with an elderly man and his family visiting the allied
cemetery in Normandy, France. He approaches the grave of Captain Miller
and becomes very emotional. We do not know who this elderly man is. He
then looks out toward the sea and then begins the flashback of the
D-Day invasion. The next 29 minutes or so is a superb, factual, brutal
and graphic account of the American landing on beach, code named
"Omaha". The loss of life on "Bloody Omaha" was enormous and
unimaginable. After the break through, we see a soldier collecting some
soil in a metal container. Here is where the first mistake occurs. We
see that this soldier has other containers with soil samples as well.
On one of the containers the word, "Italy" is written. Well, my
friends, there is no way that this soldier could have been in Italy and
then called upon to take part in the Normandy invasion.At the end of the movie, we learn that the elderly man is none other
than Private Ryan. Here comes the other big mistake. In the story
Private Ryan was parachuted behind enemy lines. He was NOT part of the
seaborne D-Day invasion. How could he possibly envision the invasion
when he was not there at all. Any flashback involves the person being
physically present in any given situation.Well, there you have it my friends. As much as I love Steven Spielberg
and Tom Hanks, an awful blunder was made right from the beginning.
Private Ryan was not there and therefore he couldn't possibly have
visualized what happened there.

******
4 November 1999
10
I don't normally speak in superlatives, but I honestly have never been
more affected by a film than I was with Saving Private Ryan. I was near
tears 5 minutes into the movie.As the ramps on the landers dropped and wave after wave of Allied
troops were immediately cut down by German machine-gunners, I sat in
horrified silence. A single tear rolled down my cheek. That tear was
followed by a dozen others. And as the terror continued in front of my
unblinking eyes, those dozen were joined by two dozen more. I now
understood - or at least had a better understanding of - why I never
want to be involved in a war.Spielberg's re-enactment of D-Day at Omaha Beach stands as one of the
single-most brilliant pieces of film ever shot. It also shows
cinematographer Janusz Kaminski and editor Michael Kahn to be two of
the most inventive minds in their respective fields. Kaminski's shaky,
newsreel-style hand-held photography and point-of-view shots and his
willingness to use varying quality film stocks, over and under-expose
shots and play with film speeds provide the opening battle with a total
lack of visual continuity which fits in perfectly with the confusion
Spielberg wanted to create. And Kahn's editing progressed the film
through that confusion, making a story out of a mess of body parts and
beautifully showing the push from the water to the ridge. His brilliant
work on Captain Miller's (Tom Hanks) temporary deafness moments alone
must have taken days, if not weeks.For proof of the Normandy scene's authenticity, ask the veterans. Many
sent Spielberg kudos (check the Trivia link for this movie), and many
are known to have suffered horrible flashbacks after seeing this film.
That's proof enough for me.Oh yeah...the rest of the movie was pretty damn good as well. I still
wonder how this film ever lost the best picture Oscar to Shakespeare In
Love, which will be forgotten in 2 years (if it hasn't been forgotten
already).One final note: All those who complained about the mistaken identity of
the old man in the opening scene, you were not being tricked into
thinking he was Captain Miller (Tom Hanks). If you were being tricked,
Spielberg would've had a shot of Captain Miller's eyes immediately
following the extreme close-up of the old man's eyes. Instead, we see
the beach, then a couple of shots of the landing craft making their way
toward said beach. Wake up, people...this was not meant to fool you.
You fooled yourselves.9.5 out of 10, the half mark lost for the lack of representation of
other Allied nations (U.K. and Canada, especially) on D-Day, and for
Ted Danson.

******
25 March 2005
4
Some scenes in this film are technically well made, but the overall
story merits a maximum rate of 4. Miller has specific orders to bring
Pvt Ryan back. Yet he charges a radar station, participates in village
fighting and sets up a trap for German troops and tanks. Did he forget
his objective, to bring Ryan back alive? The story is so incredibly
dumb, Miller should have been court martialled.There are so many errors in the movie that anyone with some knowledge
of the subject just gets annoyed watching this turkey. I have no
problem with the American touch to it, it is an American film after
all.

******
23 March 2009
1
Preposterous, repulsive, mindless Yank trash. You lot just don't get
it, do you? Sewage like this is the main reason we hate you so much -
your sickening, blinkered love affair with yourselves and your stubborn
refusal to credit any other nation with any good points at all.
Spielberg even had to drop in a disparaging comment about Field Marshal
Montgomery, who is still a national hero in England. I'm thankful none
of the money I spent on this filth (a pound in a charity shop) will
find its way into American pockets. Incidentally, I can't agree with
those criticising the portrayal of the Germans. Whether or not
individuals were keen to be in occupied countries is irrelevant - they
all bore some responsibility for laying waste a whole continent and the
murder or enslavement of its population. I've felt for years that the
whole of Germany should have been handed over to the Russians in 1945 -
they'd have handed out adequate punishment.

******
29 May 2005
5
Anyone else have dreams about Omaha Beach after watching this movie?
While I say the movie is too real, I do have one comment on the
authenticity. If Tom Hank's character was in the first wave onto Omaha,
he, and the rest of the cast probably would've been killed, too. Gosh,
how's that for an entertaining thought? I remember feeling like I got
hit by an 88 after the first 20 minutes. And then you get to see
lingering individual death scenes after almost every sequence (the slow
knife death in the house fight was senseless). I am a history major,
but I don't like accurate history movies (a lot of history is
depressing). I'll read about it. So, I guess I am not the target
audience for this movie; I do like some war movies (Big Red One,
Blackhawk Down, Platoon). I'll give Steven Spielberg credit for
honoring the memory of World War II vets in demonstrating the horror
and frustration they went through, but I can only watch that once. When
you watch someone die in The Longest Day, you think "oh no, there goes
Sal Mineo"; with Ryan, you know that was a real person who just flopped
out of his landing craft and drowned. I'm sure that is what war is
really like, I just don't want to eat popcorn in front of it.

******
17 March 2005
9
Steven Spielberg deservedly won the Oscar for directing Schindler's
List, and he did it again with another World War II film, this time in
the battle itself, he was also won the Golden Globe, and was nominated
the BAFTA. Basically the film starts with the fantastic opening on
Ohama beach with Captain John H. Miller (Oscar BAFTA nominated, and
medal for Distinguished Public Service Award (highest US Navy Civilian
honour) winning Tom Hanks) and his troops struggling for survival
against the Nazi Germans. After surviving this, they are given a
special mission that they don't understand the significance of, to find
one man and bring him home. They are now on the search for Private
James Francis Ryan (Matt Damon), and when they eventually find him, he
doesn't know why he is needed to get home. This film may have its
annoying chats and breakaways from battle, probably why it's four out
of five stars, but this still sticks closer to the truth than fiction.
Also starring Tom Sizemore as Sergeant Mike Horvath, Edward Burns as
Pvt. Richard Reiben, Barry Pepper as Pvt. Daniel Jackson, Adam Goldberg
as Pvt. Stanley Mellish, Vin Diesel as Private Adrian Caparzo, Giovanni
Ribisi as T-4 Medic Irwin Wade, Jeremy Davies as Cpl. Timothy P. Upham,
Ted Danson as Captain Fred Hamill and Paul Giamatti as Sergeant Hill.
It won the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Sound Effects Editing,
Best Film Editing and Best Sound, and it was nominated for Best Art
Direction-Set Decoration, Best Makeup, Best Music for John Williams,
Best Writing, Screenplay Written Directly for the Screen and Best
Picture, it won the BAFTAs for Best Sound and Best Special Effects, and
it was nominated for the Anthony Asquith Award for Film Music, Best
Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Make Up/Hair, Best Production
Design, the David Lean Award for Direction and Best Film, and it won
the Golden Globe for Best Motion Picture - Drama, and it was nominated
for Best Original Score and Best Screenplay. Steven Spielberg was
number 56 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, Tom Hanks was number 3
on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, and he was number 39 on The World's
Greatest Actor, the film was number 45 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, it
was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 1 on The 100
Greatest War Films. Very good!

