******
25 March 2002
10

The movie, "Se7en", starring Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, and Gwyneth Paltrow,
is by far one of the most inventive, well-written, and cerebral films in
recent history. The film, blending a well put together combination of dark
visual style, intense plot development, and polished acting, remains tight
and focused throughout, from beginning to end, never straying outwards into
unimportant issues, or resorting to typical Hollywood clichés. Se7en is
uniquely on its own for suspense dramas as it both fuels the need of the
audience to be drawn in and entertained by the events unfolding, and remain
uncompromising and shocking, thus satisfying the initial vision of the
director, David Fincher.The story surrounds the hunt for a serial killer, who, inspired by Dante
Alighieri's seven deadly sins from "The Divine Comedy", sets out to,
"preach" about man's impurity, and does so by targeting victims, then
torturing them by pitting their own underlining sins against them. Se7en
seemingly starts out as a typical cat and mouse detective story, however, it
quickly develops into of a sort of modern-myth, with good and evil taking
centre stage. The story is original on all counts, and thrilling on all
levels. The most important aspect of Se7en, however, is that it keeps the
audience numerous steps behind its story, as oppose to other thrillers,
which become predictable and bland by the end. By keeping the audience in
the dark, the film remains fresh and original as it progresses. Se7en even
dramatically turns the tide at one point, just as the audience is finally
getting comfortable and asserted into the gloomy atmosphere, thus creating
as much as fear and uncertainty in the audience as it is with the characters
involved. By the film's conclusion, the audience is as much apart of the
film as the characters themselves, and arrive at Se7en's surprise ending
without a single clue of it, prior to it occurring. Se7en's poetic
ending(which will not be given away) says a lot for the people behind the
movie, showing they are not afraid of going against the grain. A rarity with
films so nowadays.Directed brilliantly by David Fincher, and skillfully written by Andrew
Kevin Walker, Se7en is well crafted and ingeniously clever, making it one of
the greatest films of the 90's. While Se7en may not have garnered critical
acclaim as such films as Silence of the Lambs, Se7en is, undoubtedly, as
influential as any film to date.Score 10/10


******
15 October 2003
10

Seven's quality puts it so far beyond most of the "cops on trail of deranged
killer" genre that it comes out as a true jewel of cinema. Everything about
seven is perfect. It is art captured on film. This movie is a bright spot
for all of the stars who worked on it. Brad Pitt never gets the credit he deserves for his acting because he's a
pretty boy and the press is a lot more interested about how he and Jennifer
are doing. That's a shame because he is a talented actor that isn't afraid
to take chances with both the roles that he picks and the characters that he
plays. That is quite rare in the A-list world. Morgan Freeman is a great
actor. You can always count on him to do what he does best which is play a
wise veteran that has seen it all. Kevin Spacey is another great actor that
has great range and really puts life and personality into his characters.The real talent of this movie, excluding the actors that brought it to life,
is the director David Fincher and the writer Andrew Kevin Walker. Fincher's
talents for making a visually stunning film are now well known and he often
brings a dark patina to his work. Andrew Kevin Walker must have some
incredible demons living inside him. Either that or one hell of an
imagination for bringing the intricate story of Seven and the plan of John
Doe to life. John Doe's plan really is twisted and I won't be spoiling it here. Suffice
to say I have never seen so evil and complicated a plan in a movie before or
since. The cinematography of the film is dark but beautiful and throughout
the film it is either night or raining or both except for two very brief
moments. It is such an emotional movie that you can't keep from being caught
up in what is happening. Do you understand and sympathize with what John Doe
is doing or do you think him a mad killer that must be
stopped.Bottom Line: If you haven't had the opportunity to see Seven yet then you
must at least rent it. It is so damn good that I know you will like it. The
only reason you wouldn't is because you're just too damn fragile to take
something this hardcore. 

******
20 June 2002
10

Gothic, shocking, suspenseful, disturbing and clever, `Seven' marked a new
beginning for director David Fincher's career. This dark tale of murder and
crime revolves around two detectives in present New York city played by two
brilliant actors `Brad Pitt' and `Morgan Freeman' who are paired together to
solve a puzzle of murder that is at the hands of a man who kills regarding
to the seven deadly sins. Both actors displayed striking performances that
are so sharp and realistic sometimes you have to remind yourself that's its
all acting. David Fincher's masterpiece really gives us an opportunity of a lifetime,
maybe it's one that we don't all wish to share, but by seeing this movie you
will experience a glimpse of the horrors that this world is filled with, and
a small piece of mind of a man who you only prey you never have to meet.Brad Pitt successfully proves to us that he's not just a pretty face on
screen, and that he sinks into his character so well, that you can walk off
after the film finishes classifying him as a pretty darn good actor.You wouldn't expect anything else from Morgan Freeman because it's perfectly
obvious that this guy was born to play the roles of the smart detective.David Fincher's timeless directing and memorable filming captures all the
goods that this film has to offer and will undoubtedly leave you shocked and
begging for more films like this. Seven is a step into the harsh realities
of life, a realistic portrayal of two detectives investigation into the
un-describable horrific world murder, and the darkest realms of the human
soul.We can only prey for more classic memorable work from Mr. Fincher and for
those future directors who are intent on making a gothic, psychological
thriller, make sure you sit down and watch Seven with a pen and paper ready
to take notes.


******
30 April 2004
10
Rarely there has been a movie with such a good dark and chilling 
atmosphere. I even see this movie more as an horror movie than as a 
thriller because of that.

"Se7en" is unique in many ways. The movies mood is already set right 
from the beginning on. The movie starts dark, intense, chilling and 
mysterious, a mood that is present throughout the entire movie. It's 
very depressing to watch and I mean that in a positive way of the 
meaning of the word. The mood is set by good camera work and lighting, 
or better said, the lack of it. The music from acclaimed composer 
Howard Shore also adds to the chilling atmosphere.

Unlike many other movies from the same genre, the movie is slow paced 
and takes it time to develop the characters without falling into some 
obvious cliché's. The two main characters played by Morgan Freeman and 
Brad Pitt are presented as an unlikely police-couple that are different 
in many ways from each other but in a way that is also what makes them 
such a great couple. Brad Pitt for once has the opportunity to play 
more than just the pretty boy and he does it with success. Kevin Spacey 
truly plays a bone chilling character, almost just as legendary and 
chilling as Hannibal Lecter. I would very much like to see the two of 
them put in the same room, just to see who would make it out alive. 
Further more it was great to see R. Lee Emrey again as the police 
captain.

The movie is filled with some truly gross, sickening and horrifying 
scene's, this seriously ain't no kids stuff! The movie has some of the 
most sickening murders I have ever seen featured in a movie. But it 
aren't just only the gross scene's that are good, there are also some 
scene's that are made with lot's of beauty and profession such as the 
library scene.

Dark and chilling movie that you will never forget also thanks to the 
ending which I will not spoil for you. A real must see.

10/10



******
4 December 2003
10

This movie is from start to finish a well produced and directed film.  The
performances in this movie are outstanding. Brad Pitt, once again, makes
his
role a stand-out performance by putting his versatile acting skills into
his
interpretation of Detective David Mills. Morgan Freeman is well-cast. His
brooding acting style fits the character (Detective William Somerset) like
a
glove, and Gwyneth Paltrow gives her best performance EVER in the role of
Brad Pitt's supportive wife/lover (Tracy Mills). And of course, Kevin
Spacey
who plays the diabolical yet misunderstood serial killer.The movie is suspenseful and in parts very exciting.  There is a
"Pseudo-Noir" quality to this movie that really fits in well with the
content of the film (Serial Killing). It has it's philosophical moments
that
anyone who thinks a lot about the state of the world today can appreciate.
It makes subtle moral judgements without insulting any beliefs that the
viewer may have and it also generates debate for any post-film
coffee/drinks
gathering.Andrew Kevin Walker (Screenplay) has taken the subject of the Seven Deadly
Sins and he really puts a great new twist on these themes.  As a writer, I
really could appreciate the depth that he goes into with these ideas. The
movie gives us just enough information to be entertained and informed yet
not bombarded and made bored with too much philosophy.  In this respect,
the
film doesn't "preach" any special meaning even though the film's moral
statements are still maintained.  This film can be enjoyed on so many
levels
and I really enjoyed the third act. One of the best pieces of storytelling
and scriptwriting ever.Outstanding performances from everyone involved (And yes, of course, David
Fincher does a wonderful job) Say no more. *****

******
6 May 2009
10
It is a rarity for a film to be completely unsettling and yet
unrelentingly gripping.David Fincher's story takes place in a bleak and constantly raining
city (never named) where urban decay and sleaze in all forms are
rampant. Coming up to his retirement from the police force is Detective
Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman) who is tasked with breaking in his
replacement, Detective Sergeant Mills (Brad Pitt) before leaving.
Somerset is world weary, under no illusions about the futility of the
daily role he plays and (initially) wants nothing more than to escape
the grime and violence of the city. Mills on the other hand is
convinced that he is going to make a real difference having voluntarily
transferred to this precinct, bringing his wife to the city with him.
Before Somerset can move on, a homicide comes in which he and Mills are
assigned to investigate. But its only the first of a string of ritual
murders that will be committed by a killer who is basing his crimes on
the seven deadly sins as depicted in Dante's "The divine comedy".To begin with, Se7en appears to be a standard "cops on the trail of a
killer" story which shouldn't be too difficult for the audience to get
comfortable with. But as we descend along with the characters into the
merciless, brutal world without hope that they inhabit, you are left
reeling at the events that unfold.The two detectives enjoy an uneasy relationship with no real friendship
ever striking up between them. The older Somerset is educated, astute
and gives the impression of being emotionally burnt out. Mills, who has
no respect for Somersets methodical investigating gets excited at the
thought of solving a murder and firmly believes that the good guys will
win eventually. The further we get into the action, the might of the
evil that they face pushes both men beyond their limits.This film draws heavily on biblical themes and you can certainly see
similarities with such films as "The Seventh Seal" (1957). Both films
show the price that good men have to pay when they fight evil and the
unsettling truth that the rule book goes straight out the window when
you are dealing with something so diabolical that it has no boundaries
or limits at all.Se7en shows us a world which has been destroyed by its own sins, a
wasteland in which values are minimal. The killer, having nothing but
contempt for this world, sees it as his mission to expose the faults
and show everyone what they have become. It is a fascinating twist that
when the killers motives become clearer, Somerset with his greater
understanding actually feels some degree of empathy with him. This is
lost on Mills though, whose level of clarity never reaches the same
point.A previous reviewer mentioned that you begin to expect the unexpected
whilst watching Se7en and i completely agree. Eventually if you think
of the most obvious outcome in any situation and predict that the
opposite will happen, it usually does. Even the finale itself became
kind of predictable because by then you are conditioned not to have any
hope. This is a minor flaw though because the story is so well and so
shockingly told.Director David Fincher didn't pick up another script for 18 months,
such was his exhaustion and frustration following the completion of
Alien 3. Apparently he agreed to direct se7en after one reading of
Andrew Kevin Walkers screenplay because he was drawn to its hard
hitting delivery about inhumanity. He stated: "It's psychologically
violent. It implies so much, not about why you did but how you did it".
For the camera work specially altered film stock was used to make the
visuals look as dark and unsettling as possible which is complemented
well by Howard Shores music score.The Most disturbing message that Se7en puts across, is that the fight
against evil is destined to be a Pyrrhic victory. But regardless the
only thing we can do is fight on whatever the cost. We have no other
choice."The World is a fine place and worth fighting for." I agree with the
second part.

******
21 August 2005
10
A stand out film dealing with a particularly unpleasant Serial Killer,
"Se7en" (along with "Silence of the Lambs"), is something of a
milestone in this genre. An intelligent script, and admirable actors
including the excellent Morgan Freeman, Prad Pitt, Gwenth Paltrow and
Kevin Spacey, with a cinema noir style, and very grisly murders
representing the Seven Deadly Sins. It is the performances however that
lifts this movie above the average, Morgan Freeman as the older world
wise detective, Pitt almost manic as his young enthusiastic sidekick,
Poltrow plays the wife with a fine degree of sensitivity, and Spacey
does his usual brilliant psycho routine. There is a pivotal scene with
Freeman and Paltrow in a café which shows the depth of performances
here. They are believable characters in a dark disturbing world wherein
it always seems to be raining. An effective thriller with tight
direction and atmospheric photography.

******
14 October 2007
9
Despite clichés, and a very depressing finale, this is one of the
best-made films of its era and genre.The strengths of the film include an odd relationship between the two
lead cops, who seem loosely based on the two lead cops of the "Lethal
Weapon" series, but who (thankfully) never play for laughs, and never
really become "buddies" - the young cop is too arrogant, and the older
cop has too much experience, which the young cop refuses to
acknowledge. The two characters are also brilliantly acted by Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt (probably his best performance).There's one odd flaw in the film - about half-way through, I found that
I had learned to "expect the unexpected" from the film, which meant
that the rest of the film was predictable in a bizarre way - simply
decide where the expected move would be, and then expect the unexpected
move instead. The most obvious instance of this is in the finale
itself, which could be guessed at least 5 minutes ahead of time.Normally, this would be a formula for disaster - but fortunately, the
high quality of the film-making twists the film into an
edge-of-the-seat suspenseful waiting game as we watch with horror the
one cop's encounter with the insanity of pure evil.I didn't want to admire this film (to be honest, I dislike Brad Pitt
something fierce), but I'm afraid I must - very professionally made, it
delivers its promised suspense all the way.

******
28 July 2005
9
After the Alien-debacle Fincher proved all the critics wrong. This film
is one of the best in a genre that hasn't been very innovative for a
long time.Everyone know's the story by now, so I won't waste time telling it.
This film was trend setting with it's dark, gritty look and opening
sequence. We still see it copied in movies and TV-series today.
Everything is great about this film. I guess if anything, the weakest
link in the film is Pitt, who is grossly overshadowed by Freeman. But
let's not look for flaws when there really aren't any. The script is
intelligent and uncompromising. The direction is innovative en daring.
The production-design and cinematography are top-notch.Fincher is one of the big boys in Tinseltown these days. Seven is the
reason why.

******
31 January 2008
9
This is one of those dark movies, where it's constantly raining and wet
and where the light always seems to be dim. Appropriately enough, this
changes to bright and shimmering heat in the very end. As a kid, I
hated dark movies. But perhaps it is appropriate in this case, because
Seven attempts to be a statement about humanity: no one is without sin.The seven deadly sins are gluttony, greed, sloth, pride, lust, envy,
and wrath. Prime examples of people committing these are being punished
one by one, brutally and efficiently, by a psychopathic killer.
Detectives, and reluctant partners, William Somerset (Morgan Freeman)
and David Mills (Brad Pitt) are assigned to track down the killer.
Needless to say, the job gets accomplished. While some might argue it
is done surprisingly, I'd argue otherwise.For once, I wasn't impressed with Pitt's acting. I thought Freeman did
a great job. As usual, the villain, John Doe played by Kevin Spacey,
provides a chilling performance, even though he is not given as much
center stage as, say, Anthony Hopkins was in Silence of the Lambs. In
fact, the whole movie seems to hurry through without giving key
characters enough time to build up their emotional worth, particularly
Mills' wife Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow).In the end, Seven does manage to get its point across effectively.
While watching the movie itself, I thought it a bit anti-climatic, but
when mulling it over later, the images echo very strongly in my mind.
One of the most disturbing films I've seen.

******
11 November 2004
10
I love psychological thrillers and this is one of the best I've seen.
Morgan Freeman was elegant and convincing as a burnt out cop who wanted
to retire but found the fascination of the job tough to let go of. Brad
Pitt made the transition from cocky new guy to serious cop vry
convincingly. And what can I say about Kevin Spacey who is always
excellent. (Except to wonder why his name doesn't appear in the opening
credits - I looked three times.) And Gwyneth Paltrow as Pitt's wife was
as fresh and charming as ever. I truly enjoyed the performances of all
the main cast members.The best part of this film is that even when the killer is caught the
suspense isn't over. In fact - it may be just beginning.

******
7 June 2005
10
Se7en is a very complex and deep movie, while also being quite
disturbing. Andrew Kevin Walker created one of the most original spec
screenplays of all time, but it is the kind of story traditionally used
more as a writing sample than actually made into a movie. But the
creative team of director David Fincher believed in this extremely
dark, uncompromising story, and made it just the way Walker wrote it.The story revolves around two extremely well-drawn characters, David
Mills (Brad Pitt) and William Somerset (Morgan Freeman). In one sense
their relationship is the ultimate cliché -- the old veteran cop paired
up with the brash rookie (though Mills is not actually a rookie, just
new to the unnamed city where the movie takes place). But the contrast
between these two characters is played out not for laughs or cheap
drama but as the real working out of a moral question. Somerset, the
lonely, cynical older detective, cares about people but has seen too
much of the dark side of life to have much hope for society. Mills is
not as intelligent as Somerset (kudos to Pitt for being willing to play
a character that frequently looks foolish), and he lives by a
simplistic belief in the power of law enforcement to change the world.Throughout the movie, the two characters struggle with this conflict --
is human society basically rotten, and can one person do anything to
make a difference? Somerset, an intelligent, well-read man, is smart
enough to recognize the truth, however painful that is. Mills is the
kind of person who has never truly questioned the simple "values" he
was raised with. Somerset tries to educate him, tries to warn him, but
ultimately fails.In the end, it is only John Doe, the serial killer, who can teach Mills
(and by extension the audience) the truth -- that this world is very
often shockingly vicious and senselessly cruel. Doe and Somerset
actually have similar views of society and the world, up to a point.
But while Somerset still cares about his fellow human beings, Doe hates
them, and takes out his rage in a series of gruesome murders based on
the seven deadly sins.This movie is about the investigation Mills and Somerset undertake of
Doe's murders, his "sermon" to the world through serial killing.
Ultimately, Mills and Somerset can only do so much to try to stop Doe;
the killer always seems at least one step ahead of them, and stays that
way until the very end of the movie. In a normal Hollywood film, Mills
and Somerset would "win" in the end by catching Doe and setting the
world right again. But Andy Walker had a quite different ending in
mind, and Fincher and his team take the shocking conclusion all the way
to the limit of tension and drama.This movie, like Fincher's "Fight Club," was controversial for being
violent and gruesome. Certainly there are a number of gruesome and
disturbing images of murder victims' bodies, and many aspects of the
story are very troubling, to say the least. But only one person is
shown being killed on screen, and by far the worst of what happens in
this story happens in the viewer's imagination. Unlike most films that
have high levels of violence -- including, for example, Reservoir Dogs
or Silence of the Lambs -- this movie genuinely attempts to grapple
with the moral implications of what is being shown on screen. In direct
contrast with, say Quentin Tarantino, who uses extreme violence for
shock effect and to gain notoriety, Fincher actually shows less
violence on screen and raises far more probing moral questions in the
viewer's mind. I cannot think of any movie that contains as much
genuine debate and discussion among the characters about crime and
human morality as this one does -- while never becoming dull or preachy
for a moment.I cannot finish this review without a word about Mr. Fincher's
extraordinary visual talents. This is a man who ranks with the top
handful of directors of all time in his knowledge and grasp of
film-making technique. Everything from set design to lighting,
selection of film stock and processing techniques, camera movement,
frame composition, and editing work together to create an entirely new
level of visual brilliance. Fincher's use of technique brings to mind
nothing more than the work of Steven Spielberg in the 1970s, the last
time a director this extraordinary burst onto the Hollywood scene. A
whole generation has passed since then, and there is a new wave of
techniques and tools available to the filmmaker of the nineties.
Fincher uses every one of these tools to their utmost. The technical
work and supporting actors are uniformly superb. This is a movie that
works on every level. Andy Walker, having written a mind-blowing
screenplay, must have been stunned when he saw the finished film. This
movie will rock you to the core.

******
30 January 2005
9
Somerset, (Morgan Freeman) a deeply Intellectual Detective, with barely
a week left until his retirement and Mills, (Brad Pitt) the new cop in
town, who is a pretty weak detective, are thrown together to
investigate what at first appears to be another Homicide.After a second Victim is found, Somerset realises that this is no open
and shut case, and requests that he is relieved, in light of his
impending retirement. Mills gladly takes over the case and plunges
himself in way over his head.As the work of a Crimally insane genius continues, Mills grows more and
more erratic, and Somerset simply has to remain, to guide his young
partner through the case, which ultimately leads to one of the finest
climax's in movie history.With Wonderful Performances from both Freeman and Pitt and a really
dark and morbid direction from David Fincher, the movie is crammed with
suspense, intrigue and Excitement.My Favourite scene is John Doe (Kevin Spacey) tearing into Mills in the
car, driving towards the Climax, the acting is simply perfect as Pitt's
character is torn apart by the genius of the Criminally insane, and
Freeman interjects with insightful rationality, demonstrating his
superior mind. The Scene Carries such intensity, and at the same time
encapsulates the primary characters basic elements. Most actors can't
achieve this level of character depth, but these are three of the
finest actors of our time. 9/10

******
10 March 2007
10
In 1995 David Fincher released a perfectly constructed modern
masterpiece; Se7en. One of the most exhilarating experiences of
all-time and a classic to come.A cop; Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) has just moved into the city
with his wife, Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow) in hope of finally settling
down. Mills will take over the job of Detective Lt. William Somerset
(Morgan Freeman) an old cop who has seven days until his retirement
begins. Both are dedicated to the badge. They are put together on the
case of an obesity murder, in which a man has been forced to 'eat till
he bursts'. This then leads to another murder scene in which a lawyer
has bled to death, although the murderer didn't actually use the knife;
he made the lawyer do it. This is just the beginning of a mass murder
masterpiece crafted by the insane John Doe, brilliantly played by Kevin
Spacey.Whatever you do while watching it, do not see it as hollow. Se7en is
far from it. Many scenes study civilisation; present civilisation. And
its evil. Our society isn't a pleasant one. The film concentrates
mainly on the cops search; when it comes to the mystery part in finding
the killer, we discover the policemen's differences in methods, and how
the most obvious one does not actually work. Of course, its Somerset,
the one with the most experience who has the best way. He tries to find
out why. Why some man is killing these people using a specific
punishment. While Mills tries, unsuccessfully, to find out how; by
studying the crime scene for clues. He ends up bored. With the help of
the library, Somerset gets closer to the murderer. It may seem as
though the role of Tracey is a pointless part, but she is more
important than anything. She is the one who brings the men to being
more personal with each other. Notice how in the dinner scene she is
the one to introduce them by name. All making the climax tense and
difficult.Mills is the kind of guy to pull his gun out before his torch. He has
an arrogant sense of things though is 'by the book' and works. Somerset
has never even fired his weapon. He sees the evil round him. And he
wants to leave it. Though he is a cop so he has the permission to do
something about it. But the problem is, he isn't doing anything about
it. John Doe is. The reason why society is evil is because we are
allowed to sin. There is now nothing stopping us. It has become a
common factor of life. And there should be. That is why John Doe thinks
his behaviour is OK. But the problem is he is being stopped instead of
the crime out there. This is the harsh reality we live in.There are seven deadly sins. Gluttony. Greed. Sloth. Pride. Lust. Envy.
Wrath. And seven ways to die.Kevin Spacey is amazing as John Doe, portraying insanity perfectly. One
of the greatest supporting performances of all-time already. And he's
only in it for half an hour. Brad Pitt delivers a kind of forced
performance which adds to the Hollywood effect of the film though I
couldn't imagine anyone else for the part. Morgan Freeman played his
role with the greatest concentration. Throughout he needed a look of
woe on his face. And he did just that.The writing is extraordinary. The genius, Andrew Kevin Walker took an
interesting subject and created an instant classic. But most credit has
to go to Fincher. Who took aspects you wouldn't even think of looking
at and filming it. Together they project a deep film on our screens
that no-one should miss. In one scene near the end, he makes it so when
a word is spoken we cut to a character as that gives us clues to their
fate. A feast for the brain. One of the most imaginative scripts of the
90s. Fincher also knows exactly how to shoot the film. Whether it be
steady-cam for the slow and easy parts or the hand-held camera for the
adrenalin pumping scenes.The cinematography is what makes this an excellent movie. Everything is
dark. The world out there is rough, raw, grim and gritty. It does just
that. The effect it makes is astounding and truly works. The sinister
music that is added keeps the heart pounding throughout and keeps the
audience uncomfortable, in a good way. As that's what the film tries to
achieve. The opening credits are upon the greatest segment of film I
have ever seen. The jumpiness makes you feel uneasy yet intrigued to
keep watching. Every scene, due to the effort put in it, is masterful
and is what makes the film a joy to watch and observe.Se7en reveals the best glimpse we have seen of the disturbing
underworld. One of my favourites and always will be.10/10

******
4 March 2008
10
Seven is directed by David Fincher and written by Andrew Kevin Walker.
It stars Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey and
R. Lee Ermey. Music is scored by Howard Shore and cinematography by
Darius Khondji.An unnamed US city and two cops are on the trail of a serial killer who
kills his victims according to which one of the seven deadly sins they
have committed.Having been stung by the studio interference and negative fall out
regarding his directorial debut feature film, Alien 3, David Fincher
waited three years before committing to a project that he had control
over. The result was Seven, a dark masterpiece of unremitting creeping
dread that showcased the work of a clinically excellent director. Seven
is not just a movie, it's an experience, an assault on the senses, a
jolt to the brain, a trawl through the dark recess of some sick city
where it always rains and the darkness holds many fears. This is no
boorish slasher movie, it's psychological discord 101, we only see the
aftermath of crimes, the discussions of which forces us to delve deep
into our own imagination to fill in the blanks, forcing us to go where
we don't want to go, you sense the director is somewhere gleefully
pulling our strings."But that's the point. We see a deadly sin on every street corner, in
every home, and we tolerate it. We tolerate it because it's common,
it's trivial. We tolerate it morning, noon, and night. Well, not
anymore. I'm setting the example. What I've done is going to be puzzled
over and studied and followed... forever"Seven is very much an ultimate horror film, really is there anything
more scary than a serial killer who is smarter than the cops chasing
him? Not only that but they are, oblivious as they be, part of the
master plan. This killer is not only unstoppable in perpetrating his
violent crimes, he is, as Freeman's weary retirement bound Detective
Somerset says, methodical and patient. It's going to end bad, the cops
know it and so do we, and that's when Fincher and Walker stick their
hands into our guts and pull out the last semblance of solids to
deliver one of the greatest endings of modern cinema. An ending fit to
grace any noir, neo-noir or smart ass psychological horror movie from
across the ages. With each viewing of Seven there's the repeating wave
of bleak emotions that come as the reversed end credits roll,
desolation and disbelief, sadness and shock, our trip through earthly
hell is over, but only in the psychical sense!Faultless cast performances, no doubt eked out by what we now know is a
task-master director, photography that brilliantly brings to "light"
the melancholic sheen of a decaying society and a Howard Shore score
that crawls out of the speakers and cloaks your body like some evil
Incubus or Succubus. Seven, a masterpiece of unease and evil wrung out
by a master director. 10/10

******
18 May 2001
9

`Se7en' is all about harsh style and gruesome substance  while it's
probably not a film for everyone (particularly the squeamish), it is one of
the most moody, memorable films made in recent years.  A sense of absolute
dread pervades each and every scene, either from the powerful words and
deeds of the characters or from the dreary sets and atmosphere created by
director David Fincher.  There's a quote from the film `The Crow' that
goes,
`It can't rain all the time' . . . well, in the world of `Se7en', it can 
and it does.`Se7en' is the story of world-weary police detective William Somerset
(Morgan Freeman), a man who's probably seen more terror and sadness in his
lifetime than any man should ever be forced to see.  Partnered with the
young cop David Mills (Brad Pitt), Somerset is assigned to find the serial
killer known only as John Doe.  The horrific crimes of Doe are patterned
after the Seven Deadly Sins  for Gluttony, one victim was literally forced
to eat until his internal organs exploded; for another, Greed, the victim
is
forced to cut an actual pound of flesh away from his own body.  John Doe is
a highly literate, intelligent killer; but so is Somerset, and an
astounding
game of cat-and-mouse filled with unexpected twists ensues as the hunt for
Doe gets underway.Andrew Kevin Walker's script for `Se7en' is absolutely dazzling.  It's
smart
and powerful, and doesn't pull any punches  the bodies, maimed and
tortured, inexorably begin to pile up in graphic fashion, and Somerset and
Mills aren't allowed to minimize the horrors they're forced to find.  Each
new corpse brings a true feeling of revulsion . . . and of dread, as the
realization hits that another body will be forthcoming unless John Doe is
found.  The story is filled with misdirection and red herrings; just as the
audience starts to think that the unfolding events of the film are starting
to become predictable, the film lurches further into the unknown darkness,
keeping the edge of uneasiness that pervades `Se7en' fresh . . . and
constant.  Kudos also to David Fincher's stylish direction  this may be
Fincher's best film to date.  The entire look of the film is dark and
gloomy, almost a suicidal form of 1940s film noir, evoking a despairing
atmosphere that never relents or shows a glimmer of optimism.  Combine that
with Fincher's knack for turning even the most mundane scene into a
nailbiter  `Se7en' features a scene with Somerset and Mills standing
together in an empty field, and yet the scene is still incredibly tense 
and `Se7en' becomes an exceptionally powerful, disturbing film that's
difficult to turn away from.The cast?  Also excellent.  Pitt is perfect as the cocky young detective
Mills, mixing together the right amount of bravado and testosterone at the
start of the film, and then later tempering that swagger with cynicism 
and
fear  as the movie progresses forward.  In a way, Mills is a surrogate for
the audience; he starts out thinking that he knows exactly what's going to
happen but as events slowly unfold before his horrified eyes, it starts to
dawn on Mills that he is mentally unprepared he is for a maniac like John
Doe.  Pitt handles the decline of Mills from overconfident to completely
paranoid with great skill.  The killer John Doe (I won't reveal his name
here; the actor's uncredited in the film, so I won't mention it either on
the off chance that you haven't read it elsewhere) is simply great.  He's a
quiet, intense figure who is Machiavellian with his calculated words and
actions.  Many other actors might've just mimicked Hannibal Lecter to
portray John Doe . . . but the awesome performance in `Se7en' of the
uncredited actor is actually better  and more unsettling  than Lecter
himself.  The best performance of the film, however, may belong to Morgan
Freeman as Somerset.  Freeman is perhaps the only person capable to
tracking
down John Doe, simply because he has seen so much sadness and horror
before.
Nothing Doe does, no matter how vile,  is able to derail the detective's
efforts.  As Somerset, Freeman imbues the character with a certain tired,
weary attitude . . . but still lying somewhere beneath that attitude is
hope, and that small glimmer of hope, along with the wisdom of experience,
is what prevents `Se7en' from spiraling into complete despair.   Somerset's
hope, small as it is, becomes the audience's hope as well.With the possible exception of the very end of the film  for all its
daring
audacity, Fincher chooses to play it a little too safe at the film's
conclusion   `Se7en' proves to be an uncompromising tour de force of
modern
horror.  If you're not easily bothered by graphic horror and gore, then go
watch this film.  You certainly won't be disappointed.  Grade:
A


******
3 August 2004
5

I won't bother with spoilers, as there are plenty of them in the other
comments.When all was said and done, my wife and I looked at each other and said
"This is the scariest movie ever?"What I saw was a run-of-the-mill "insane killer gets tracked down by
the older, smart cop and the younger, gung-ho cop while manipulating
everybody in the process". Perhaps I've become jaded, but I found
nothing here that was particularly scary or mind-bending. A clever
nut-job leads the police on a mad chase, punishing people as "sinners".
The only difference between this and a half-dozen other serial killer
movies is the theme of the killings and the fact that the killer turns
himself in 3/4's of the way into the story.This leads to the "twist" ending that seems to remain with so many
people. I didn't find the "twist" horrific, though. I simply found it
jarring. It didn't fit and it didn't particularly surprise me either.
Once the killer decided to let Mills live, you knew he was going to
mess with him somehow. The only surprise is the degree of what he did.
As far as I'm concerned, they could have dispensed with the whole
"wrath" setup and ended with John Doe's words to Mills - "You're only
sitting here because I ALLOWED you to live and you'll know that every
time you look in the mirror."Instead, they had to go for a "shocker" ending. This is the "twist"
ending that supposedly makes the movie.Here's the thing, though - The ending doesn't fit the killer's MO.
We're given every reason to believe that John Doe is clever, capable,
and highly intelligent. He's on a mission. He believes in his mission.
He punishes the guilty for their sins, not the innocent. Why, then,
does he pick a completely innocent stranger and use her as a vehicle to
brand himself as personification of Envy? If he really was envious of
Mills (a fact that is highly doubtful), he was already deserving of
punishment so why kill an innocent person to make the point? How does
the manipulation of Mills into becoming Wrath actually punish Mills for
having committed the sin of Wrath?None of these things make any logical sense within the framework of the
story. The ending is completely out of synch with everything we've
learned about the killer, including his own statements. All you can do
is shrug your shoulders and say "Well, you can't expect an insane
killer to be logical." and that just doesn't sit right with me. Not
after the buildup we were given concerning John Doe.I can't recommend this movie. If you want to see a taut, disturbing
film in this style (sans the insane serial killer) then rent "8
Millimeter" instead.


******
21 February 2005
9
When audiences went to see the latest production of a tragedy by
William Shakespeare at the Globe Theatre, there was a universal
reaction by the spectators to what they were seeing on the stage. It
was one of sadness, anger, sympathy and relief. The sadness was
normally due to the innocent victim (who was usually a beautiful woman)
being murdered in an unjustified fashion, such as Desdemona in
'Othello'; the anger would have been directed towards the villain in
the play whose dastardly deeds had resulted in the deaths of heroes and
heroines - here we have Iago, arguably the most evil character in the
history of literature ('Othello' again); sympathy was not for the
devil, but for the poor people who had overcome the denouement but had
to deal with its consequences (Horatio perhaps in 'Hamlet', or maybe
Father Laurence in 'Romeo and Juliet'); and lastly relief was felt
because the audience had survived the play's violence and could thank
their lucky stars that they did not have to live in a world so cruel.
Now stay with me here, because there is, in fact, a point to all of
this. I believe that Fincher's 'Seven' is the modern Shakespearean
tragedy, the modern 'Titus Andronicus', if you will. The feeling that
washes over you when the credits roll in Seven (which are damn good
credits I might add, start and finish) is on a par with a great
Shakespearean tragedy, and it is for this reason why I think that films
such as Seven should be considered as more serious in a literary sense.
Not only that, but the film even introduces the audience to legendary
texts such as Dante's 'Inferno' and Geoffrey Chaucer's 'The Canterbury
Tales' - so I would be inclined to try and influence more English
professors to watch this film. Now here's the part where I say 'Yeah Seven, woo, it's awesome! Yeah!'.
I'm just going to go out and say it: this film has everything that you
could possibly be looking for when watching a movie. The script, for
one, is great. Original, funny in places, exciting, sexy...the list is
endless really. Well played Andrew Kevin Walker; the boy done good.
Next we have the acting which, to put in a Romantic sense, is sublime:
people may argue that Morgan Freeman can only play one character, but I
think it's similar to the situation with Hugh Grant (his one persona
may be a bumbling, lovable fool, but he is damn good at it) and it's
the same for Morgan. Here he is at his fatherly, worldly-wise detective
best, and the comic double act of Freeman and Pitt is essential to the
film. Pitt's performance is probably just about overshadowed by his
portrayal of Tyler Durden in Fincher's other chef d'oeuvre 'Fight
Club', but in no way is this a demeaning statement to Pitt. He is, or
was, one of my favourite 'younger' actors (that's the Ed Norton, Johnny
Depp ring, as opposed to the Pacino/De Niro/Hoffman circle of
expertise) until 2005 came about - Ocean's 12, to put it mildly,
disappointed me greatly. However, let's think positively: with Seven
and Fight Club and Snatch, I'm sure Brad has something in store for
fans like me. Gwyneth Paltrow is probably the unsung hero, or heroine,
of the film and ironically she's the one who gets it worst (or does
she? Refer back to tragedy point about sympathy). The words 'never
better' spring to mind when thinking about Paltrow's 'Tracey'. There's
someone else I'm not mentioning here, despite the 'contains spoiler'
tick, but let's just say he/she/it provides, in my eyes, the greatest
twist OF ALL TIME. Last but not least, David Fincher is where it's at.
His undoubtedly cool style is the reason why this film is so...cool,
for want of a better word. Thanks to him, Morgan Freeman is cool,
Gwyneth Paltrow is cool, the man who works in that horrible place where
the 'Pride' crime takes place is cool, even the man/woman/thing with no
name is cool (to a certain extent). To conclude, there are certain films that when the credits appear at
the end, you think to yourself 'That has to be the best movie I've ever
seen'. 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'L.A. Confidential' are prime examples. In
my opinion, 'Seven' epitomises this type of film.

******
20 June 2005
10
At first, I was a little hesitant about taking time out of my life to
see Seven. I mean, I am a busy person... but this film was well worth
my time... Perhaps the best Brad Pitt film that I have seen, this film
involves two detectives (Pitt and Freeman) going after a delusional
killer (Kevin Spacey) who murders his victims according to the seven
deadly sins: gluttony, greed, lust, etc... Spacey takes pride in his
killings and leaves clues for the police, similar to "Son of Sam"
killer David Berkowitz when he murdered six women in New York City in
the 1970's ("Summer of Sam"= another great film)... This was an intense
thriller that had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish...Movies generally take a lot to keep me interested, and I am generally a
fan of comedies and action flicks. But Seven was different.... it was a
fantastic thriller that kept you thinking and waiting to see what
happens as Pitt and Freeman chase down the barbaric killer who feels
that he is doing "God's deed"... This film is a must-see!! My only
regret is that I had did not see it until 10 years after its theatrical
release... Please feel free to email me with any questions or
comments...

******
16 June 2005
8
'He is preaching.punishing'.Serial killing with clues from killer is not a new thing to Hollywood
but David Fincher's Se7en exceptional. Its evil genius. Se7en opens
with a homicide where a fatso is killed in a very strange manner. We
meet Detective Somerset(Freeman) who is about to take off and detective
David Mills(Pitt) has just fought to get assigned there. Somerset is
calm, mature and has achieved mastery over his job. He probably seen so
much that now he badly wants to go far away from this bloodshed. David
appears cocky first but turns out amiable character of the film.
Tracey(Palthow) is David's wife who hasn't got used to with guns even
after so many years of their marriage. It begins. Each killing is shockingly repellent. Like an artist's
signature every victim holds a note, a sin highlighted with lines from
Dante Alighieri' s 'Divine Comedy', Shakespeare's 'Merchant of Venice'.
And his name is John Doe(Kevin Spacey). Those lines are screaming that
this not just some insanity. He wants to make a point.Each murder is done by reaching horrific extremes of those deadly sins.
A fat man is fed until he burst. Then there is an infamous lawyer got
gun stuck on his head, handed a knife -a weighing scale is in front of
him and he has to cut 1 pound of flesh from his body by himself. A
druggist tied to bed for a whole year!! A famous model, her nose is cut
and bandaged again and gave a choice- phone in one hand to call help n
sleeping pills in other one to die rather than live deformed. A whore
is punished ruthlessly that you should see on screen only. John says,
"The world is so shittyand we get used to them".This Script is sumptuous. It mirrors today's society skillfully and
boldly. Nothing is hidden by the camera. All we watch is naked truth
that we hate to admit and most of the time that we hardly care. The
spirituality woven in has its impact all over. Most of all ending is a
blow. It is stunning.There are number of memorable sequences in Seven. One especially is
breath-taking when Somerset and Mills reaches John doe's apartment and
Doe directly starts shooting at them and chase sequence followed is
absolute fabulous. On other hand dinner party at Mills house we feel
wine mixed in the air. Tracey and Somerset's meeting at coffee shop is
the finest ones I ever seen. The intensity of that conversation can't
be described.This is a very dark film. It is all time raining. All environment
surrounding Se7en is so grim and ghastly it clouds viewers with the
same. Music refuse to leave us even when it is over. I must mention
titles and credits rolled, one of the best I ever seen. Se7en comes out with strong performances. Morgan Freeman is truly
outstanding. Brad Pitt made me his fan from this movie. The way he says
"Ladies and Gentleman we have a homicide here" and same David when
taunted by Somerset "You are saying you care for these people?" says
with assuring impulse "Sure I do.!!!". Gwyneth Paltrow 's Tracey
doesn't have much screen presence but when she is there, we just can
not stop love her character. In final half an hour we are introduced to
Kevin Spacey's John Doe. The preacher. What can I say about this
chilling work? Spacey gave such a performance that stings. We hate to
admit with this man but somewhere we know he is right. Somerset asks
him, "So you are saying some higher power tell you to do this?" Just
watch John Doe reply "Lord works in mysterious ways..". Interesting
thing pointed out by one of the fan is Somerset and John Doe both
observed the same facts about today's society but responds in different
ways, Somerset want to run away and Doe takes action.No matter how many thrillers I shall see but this will always one of my
favorites. It affects deeply. That's the power of Se7en. Se7en is a
terrific thriller and a modern classic.

******
2 May 2010
10
I didn't know what I was getting into when I sat down to watch this
movie along with my friend. He had brought the DVD to my home and as he
is a hardcore fan of Brad Pitt, he has bought almost every major hit
movie of Pitt and since I am also a fan, we both watched it together. I
thought it would be a cool movie like other Pitt films, but it was so
dark and has so much more than other films of this genre.Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is on his last week in duty
and he's all set to retire when the case of a strange death is made his
responsibility to solve. Though all others think that it was a psycho
who was responsible for the death, Somerset has his doubts, he thinks
that the murderer is simply a clever and disgusted man who is trying to
rid the society of evil. In many ways, his and the killer's view about
the degrading society is alike, except that Somerset wants to leave the
city for the country life and the killer is taking action. Enter
Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt), the young and dynamic sleuth who has
a positive view on the society, and he is made the partner to Somerset.
Then onwards, there are more disgusting, shocking deaths with the seven
sins as its identity. The seven sins are - Gluttony, Greed, Sloth,
Envy, Pride, Lust and Wrath. While Mills believes the killer is an
insane person, Somerset tells him that he is a very clever, normal man
and nowhere near insane with his precise killings and no clues to be
found anywhere. The killer is a John Doe (played brilliantly in a cameo
role by Kevin Spacey) and it takes every last bit of Somerset's and
Mills willpower to not get carried away by the magnitude of the brutal,
methodical killings. Tracy Mills (Gwyneth Paltrow) is the wife of Mills
and they are very much in love. Will the detectives be able to stop
this killer who claims himself to be a servant of God and who will bear
the brunt of this maniac's insanity eventually - The society or the
detectives? David Fincher is at the helm of this amazing film. This could have been
a routine cop-killer story, but he does not even step into the tired
and old Hollywood clichés and is not afraid to make this a dark, unique
and depressing tale about the human life. Also, he does so in a very
powerful and clever way. I was racking my brains to figure out who the
killer was, as in films like these, they would show the killer
beforehand. And in the end, it was true; the killer had come in contact
with the detectives. Morgan plays the old and more worldly wise man,
rather in contrast to Pitt's character who is a hot-head at times. No
matter how insanely talented Pitt is, the press always seems to give
more importance to his charming looks and relationship with Jolie (back
then, it was Jennifer Aniston). Tracy is genuinely portrayed by Gwyneth
Paltrow. She played a major part in bringing Mills and Somerset
together. I loved her scene where she introduces each other. Though she
didn't get enough screen-time to have satisfied me, I got over it as
the ending was so emotional and I cried (I am a straight guy and I am
not ashamed to say that I cried) when Pitt finds out what was in the
box. I could see that one coming a couple of minutes before the movie
got to it, but it doesn't mean I didn't get emotional at that point. I
was hoping against hope that it wasn't what I was thinking. But, it was
and I cried. Don't see this if you can't handle brutal death scenes
(although they show only the aftermath of the death, it is still
nauseous) and are easily bored when things are not non-stop action.
But, the screenplay is one of the best I have seen in this genre. Also,
the colouring layout of the movie is dark, everything is subdued and
always raining, except save for the climax which is bright and hot,
which served as an irony of sorts and it was wonderful. When John Doe
tells Mills to become wrath, I got chills running up and down my spine.I still consider Fight Club to be the best Pitt-Fincher movie, but I
can't ignore this brilliantly made movie. Though not everyone will like
this film (case-in-point, my Brad Pitt fan friend), because of the dark
overtone, I loved it as it isn't flashy and predictable like most
movies of this genre, and actually was very brilliant.10/10

******
15 August 2012
6
First off, I KNOW that I'm gonna get grief and derision from most here
because, I'm sorry, but I don't really think this film is the be all,
end all that everyone thinks it is.YES, it is well made, directed, and acted; and the lighting is sharp
which fits the nihilistic 'Noir'ish mood. And, yes, it was indeed
pretty much the first of it's kind which set a gritty, dark tone for
crime films to come. Fine... I really have no specific negatives about
the movie. HOWEVER... At the end of the day did I personally really
find it THAT entertaining...? Not really... Yes, the unexpected ending
is both shocking and dramatic, but does it honestly make sense...?
***SPOILERS Keven Spacey clearly and explicitly states the reasons why
he has committed these murders: That people are doing all these very
bad things everywhere all the time and people just don't care; so, he
is setting 'the example' of what people should be doing to punish these
'sinners'. Okay... Now we are supposed to believe then that out of the
blue he kills a COMPLETELY innocent woman (who is also pregnant) which
to me the SOLE purpose is for an (admittedly extremely dramatic and
shocking) plot device to set up Mills to kill him...??? Come on... I
don't buy it. It is TOTALLY contrary to the very motivation of Kevin
Spacey's character. But yeah, what an ending, sure... *** END SPOILERSAnyway, the question is, what do we find truly entertaining about a
film? Putting stylistic touches or technical competence aside (such as
visual effects, special or moody lighting, excellent cinematography,
sound design, etc.) to me it primarily is this: How engaging or
absorbing is the plot or story? How does it carry us along as it
develops? How involving and complex are the characters and how
interesting is the interplay and relationships between them? Now, these
are just basics for most films. I realize that there are special genres
or styles that we enjoy individually simply because we like those types
of films (1950's Sci Fi, Slasher Horror Films, Ultra-Cheeeeezy Kung Fu
movies, etc.) But, with this film at the end of the day what do we
have...? Sure, we have this ghoulish, creepy, dark story of a killer
who is killing by way of the 7 Deadly Sins. Okay... Characters...?
Well, yes, all the actors concerned do a fine job; no real complaints
there. BUT...! How deep or complex are they? How fascinating are they
really? How engaging and intriguing are their interactions? To me
personally, I felt that both the plot and character development to be
rather shallow and superficial. I mean, WHAT do we really know about
them? How deeply are we drawn into their lives and relationships? I'm
sorry, but to me I really don't see a whole hell of a lot going on here
other than a bunch of neatly lit, dark and somewhat moody scenes with
little or no real substance. And the overall 'message' we are left
with? The quite trite, common, and ultimately boring 'No one cares
because the evil that people do is so arbitrary and horrible, so what's
the point?' Yeah, real depth there...So, yeah, the film is well put together and there's nothing really
'BAD' about it per se; but, I do not feel myself that after all is said
and done that you walk away from it with much of anything. There are
darker and FAR more entertaining Horror films out there; and there are
also dark, gritty, and INFINITELY more complex and engaging crime films
out there. Films where afterward you actually feel like you have either
been truly entertained by a story that makes you think and guess and
wonder and also with characters who make you feel and care MUCH more
about them because they are portrayed in a better, fuller, and more
complex way.So, do I like dark, ambiguous, moody films? YOU BET! Do I like the
dark, even nihilistic overtones of period FILM NOIR? ABSOLUTELY! Do I
even like films with little substance BUT have TONS of style and mood
(a la David Lynch, say) YES SIREE!!! But to me, this film, although of
good quality, honestly strikes me as a 'One-Note' simplistic film and I
just do NOT quite buy into the ending at all; it is merely a completely
nonsensical plot device to give us a slam-bang ending. I mean, just a random example that comes to mind, I've seen Sandra
Bullock's crime film 'MURDER BY NUMBERS' like 3 times and I've fully
enjoyed it each time. You have a main character that is extremely
complex and engaging; you have antagonists that are thoroughly riveting
and with a layered relationship that is completely fascinating. And,
you have a story that as it unreels truly draws you into the psyche,
feelings, and motivations of the characters. And this is just an off
the top, fairly above average example; nothing Earth shaking or
anything, but just a simple example of what a movie is SUPPOSED to be.
Entertaining...But, I will say this though... It has to have probably THE best opening
credit sequence and background song ever!!!For this film though, I seriously doubt that I would ever really have
the desire to sit down and watch it again...*** EDIT (2015.02.14)Heh, I'm actually thinking about giving this another chance and
watching it again... :) I'm curious if my impressions will still be the
same...

******
10 May 2005
10
i love this film, it is the ultimate thriller film, everything about
se7en is brilliant. the cast are well picked and make the best
contributions, the main characters Somerset and Mills are portrayed
perfectly through Freeman and Pitt. in my opinion this is both Pitt and
Freeman's best film, they still have not outshines there fantastic
performances. Paltrow as mills wife was a good choice though there are
a few other actresses that could have played this part, though i think
that what paltrow brought to the role was the fragile emotional side of
the character, so i am pleased that she played this part so well. the
director is my favourite of all time, Mr David Fincher! he is a
fantastic director, not just for this film but for his other films like
fight club. he gets fantastic results from his cast and crew and makes
the perfect film. and as i'm a budding editor myself i have to mention
the fantastic edit on the film, by the editor Richard Francis-Bruce, i
do love the edit on seven as he cut at hit points and generally did
well.if you haven't watched it watch it, if you've seen it seen it again! i
certainly will.

******
14 October 2012
7
This movie was just awesome.A thriller that really leaves you on the
edge of your seat the whole time your watching. It starts morgan
freeman who always does a superb job, accompanied by brad pitt who
always did an outstanding job. And to top it all off it was directed by
David Fincher who has made some great movies.This movie is about two detectives (Freeman,Pitt) who are sent to
invesitage a weird string of murders. There is a murderer killing
people using the seven deadly sins as justification.Overall this movie was really good. Great actors, great story line and
a lot of twists and turns to keep you interested. I really liked it.

******
5 April 2007
9
David Fincher's best movie until date, Se7en is a dark portrayal of a
genius psychopath killer, brilliantly played by Kevin Spacey. He is on
camera for no more than last 30 minutes of the movie, but so dominant
is his character that the entire movie seems to be cast around his
uncanny-ness.The hero of the movie though is neither he nor Brad Pitt nor Morgan
Freeman  the two detectives entrusted with the task of tacking him
down. It is the plot and the script, extremely brilliant though very
murky and enticingly morbid. You see gory murders that leave trace of
heart-rending torture, but all that it makes you do is become more
inquisitive about the killer. The killer is the sole obsession with the
detectives too and the contrast between Brad Pitt's edginess and Morgan
Freeman's poise is very well portrayed. It parallels the contrast
between the killer's poise and the edginess of the action sequence.The climax of the movie is startling, revealing and disturbing. It
characterizes the essence of Se7en, a movie that stirs you and makes
you sit up and take note of it. Calling Se7en a psychological thriller
is understating its significance. It is a movie that goes well beyond
that, making you aware of the morbid possibilities that exist in human
mind. The movie is also remarkable for the fact the cinematic climax
does not provide you any catharsis, it just sets your mind thinking 
not in the least about what it takes to craft a script as this and to
make a movie as disturbingly poignant as Se7en.

******
23 May 2005
10
This is an outstanding movie. Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey are
pitch-perfect, and Brad Pitt is solid. Pitt actually had a lot to do
with this movie's success outside of his acting. He forced the studio
to keep the original ending, and he forced them to shell out the money
to get Spacey. It is fortunate that he did, as those two elements are
central to the movie's greatness. Spacey played the killer so
chillingly that it makes his message seem all the more unnerving and,
perhaps, correct. The uncompromising ending leaves the viewer shocked
and reeling. This movie could not have worked without it. Outside of
those obvious elements, another key to the film is Freeman's character.
His outlook on life is and how it is affected by the murders and by his
new partner is a key subplot the film. It brings more weight to the
picture. Also, David Fincher's dark, dreary direction adds to the film,
somewhat similar to the way Ridley Scott's dark vision adds to Blade
Runner. The constant rain is a nice touch, especially when it
ironically recedes after the killer shows up. I was never a Nine Inch
Nails fan, but their dark brand of music fits this film well, as
evidenced in the opening credits. Overall, I think this is one of the
great films of all time. Watch it if you can handle grisly images and
if you like unnerving endings.

******
24 July 2004
10

WARNING: SPOILERS AHEADAs far as the '90's are concerned, there were two good thrillers: The
Silence Of The Lambs and Se7en. Kevin Andrew Walker and David Fincher
appeared out of nowhere - B movie productions, actually - and took
audiences by surprise with a gritty story that mixed urban loneliness,
musings on contemporary life, the buddy cop genre, an unprecedented
villain in cinema, a violent message against modern society, an
intelligent plot with good dialogue and characterisation, and an
unforgettable twist at the end that launched a thousand imitations.
Indeed, the effects of the marvelous twist are still visible today, in
horrible movies like Secret Window, Identity or Godsend. It's become a
rule to expect for a twist in thrillers nowadays, sometimes in movies
that don't even need them. The one in Se7en made all the sense and
besides there was still a great story behind it with great characters,
powerful feelings and high stakes. Some thrillers today, though, seem
so committed with dazzling the audiences with their bad twists they
forget to tell an actual story in the meantime.On the surface, Se7en is a very simple movie: a retiring detective
teams with up his substitute and for seven days they chase a serial
killer whose modus operandi is killing each victim after a different
deadly sin. It's almost like those slashers where the killer picks his
victims one by one. Like I said, it's a simple story but then, all the
good movies usually are. What sets this villain - named only John Doe -
apart from average killers is that he has the determination, patience
and cunningness to elaborate a plan that has taken him over a year to
finally come together: Mills and Sommerset, the detectives, are just
poor fools walking into this trap. They're capable men on the whole,
and they even disturb John's plans once, which, to me at least, is what
sets off John's terrifying revenge at the end he just loves having the
upper hand. More remarkably, his plan does have a purpose: to sensitise
society with his murders, to force everyone to look inside themselves
and start thinking about what's wrong in society, through his twisted,
corrupted vision, of course basically, he wants to wake up everyone
from what he thinks is a collective sleepwalking, the way people go
around their business in every-day life without caring about the others
around them, locked in their own tiny lives like they're not part of
humanity. There are several high points in this movie, the twist notwithstanding:
any of the murder scenes is shockingly beautiful, sometimes dark and
grotesque, others beautiful and full of peace; listening to Bach in
this movie was a pleasant surprise, and so is the scene where it's
playing, as Sommerset goes about a darkly-lit library looking for books
about the seven deadly sins; John Doe walking into the precinct on his
own, drenched in blood, asking to be arrested, he strikes everyone as a
calm, peaceful little man, but his reputation is so famous everyone
just stays clear as if he were a bomber; the conversation between
Sommerset and Doe in the car as they drive to the place where Doe has
two bodies buried, and they discuss the nature of John's work: is he
just a sadistic bastard, or a servant of God? Or is he just a pathetic
madmen craving for attention?Se7en is an impeccable movie from the beginning to the end. I don't see
any faults in the acting, directing - Fincher's sets are outstanding! -
or screen writing. I loved it the first time I saw it, and it's still
one of my favourite movies today. I just wish more thrillers like this
were made on a regular - I don't mean hitting us with a boring twist in
the last second, but with solid characters, a good story and an
intelligent plot.


******
11 January 2004
10

I first saw this movie when I first visited America, I knew nothing about
this film (as it had just opened) so I paid my money and gave the film a
chance. It simply blew me away. The ending is just unbelievable. The
performances are fantastic, the direction and art design are exceptional
and
Kevin Spacey (my fave actor) popping up towards the end was the icing on
the
cake. Plus every time I watch the film now it reminds me of being in
America... it's my favourite movie, for so many reasons.
:)

******
26 December 2015
8
David Fincher's "Se7en" is one such movie that blurs the line between a
giallo horror and a psychological thriller. "Se7en" sets a mood which
is chilling, dark and puzzling. A mood that is present all through the
entire movie. The mood set is the excellent work of director David
Fincher, who wanted to give dark and gloomy atmosphere to the movie
just to expose a world which is rough, bleak and gritty. The effect it
makes is astounding and is does so by good camera work and lighting, or
the lack of it. The cameras used in this film was specially changed
film stock to make the visuals look as dark as possible which is
complemented well by Howard Shores music score. The ominous music that
is added keeps the audience uncomfortable, in a good way. If it wasn't
for disturbing message that "Se7en" puts across, and astonishing dark
scenes, I would have not given the rating I gave.The assignment of roles in the movie is excellent, even though I
loathed Brad Pitt's character. Brad Pitt's character was at times
annoying and glorified. All he did was slow down the overall
investigation process. His weak presence makes it seem that he was
never the Lead or the Assistant detective in the investigations of the
crime. All he said was excessive swear words and not something tangible
and due to this reason, his interaction with Morgan Freeman's character
was frail. At times I felt Morgan Freeman's character would have done a
better job leading the investigation alone. The conversation in the
police car was really insubstantial. I would have really despised this
movie it wasn't for the phenomenal acting by 'actor who played the
Killer'. It would've been so much better if Brad Pitt's character
wasn't such a weak character and if he just stop talking at times and
listened to the astute Morgan Freeman's character. Whilst watching the
movie I wholeheartedly wanted to despise on Brad Pitt's character and
to an extent Brad Pitt himself but having watched and loved Brad Pitt
in David Fincher's Fight Club I often found myself forcibly liking Brad
Pitt's character and justifying his decisions and his exchange of ideas
but I failed. Morgan Freeman's was excellent in the role of a veteran
detective and a wise mentor for Brad Pitt's character**SPOILER**The biggest sin in this movie is perhaps not the character but the
ending. I found the ending awfully predictable. I could have seen that
one of our main characters would eventually be one of the 'victims'.
Especially after getting to see the 'wife' and she revealing something
crucial at a buildup stage just screamed that she was going to die. The
buildup was for nothing if it wasn't for the predictable ending. I had
a tiny hope for something magnificent and grimy, since the killer's
talk about the sins and how his killings were justified but the killer
too just disappointed me in the end. Also it made me dislike Brad
Pitt's character that much more, because I was hoping he wouldn't shoot
the killer, and that I might get a reason to respect him as a
character. I don't care how if a certain movie has a happy or a sad
ending, but this movie would've ended on a strong note if he hadn't
killed the killer. The director could have found another way of
exhibiting the last sin. Morgan Freeman's character could have and
should have done something more in preventing the last 'execution'.
After all he is the one who saw clearly what the killer's grand plan
was. The ending scene was one big anticlimax and thus this movie could
have been my second favorite David Fincher movie following Fight Club
if not my second favorite movies of all time.8/10.Note: I used 'actor who played the Killer' instead of revealing the
actor's name is because David Fincher wanted the killer's identity to
be a surprise and I shall oblige.

******
29 February 2008
10
The greatest thriller of all time right next to Silence of the
Lambs.David Fincher has outdone himself and it shows.The story is
simple.Two detectives must apprehend a twisted serial killer who
punishes his victims for their own sins.But what they come across will
soon change them both forever!!!Expert story teller Fincher builds non
stop tension which nearly explodes by the end of the movie.Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt are at their best here.There is great chemistry
between the two and Gwyneth Paltrow is terrific as Tracy.The end of the
movie is one of the most shocking experiences ever on film.The first
time when I saw Se7en i was shocked,horrified and just couldn't believe
what just happened.THE END will shock you be sure but that is one of
the reasons the movie is so good.The final lines by Somerset are
moving:"Ernest Hemingway once wrote that the world is a fine place
worth fighting for...I agree with the second part".

******
7 January 2008
10
This is by far the finest serial killer movie of all time. The script
is beautifully paced and original with a fantastic twist at the end.
The acting is superb, everyone is on the top of their game. Morgan
Freeman shows his versatility and superb natural ability in the role of
retiring detective Somerset, Brad Pitt gives the performance of his
career as the young feisty Dectective Mills and Gwyneth Paltrow is
fantastic as his highly sympathetic and caring character of his wife
Tracy. But of course it is Spacey who steals the show as the compelling
chilling "John Doe".His entrancingly calm and chilling performance lifts the picture above
many others of its genre and his pure evil glint is just as chilling
even more so than Anthony Hopkins in "The Silence of the Lambs".I believe that Se7en is far far superior to "The Silence of the Lambs"
and others of its kind. It was one of the greatest films of the 90's
(for me second only to "The Usual Suspects") and i feel is constantly
underrated by many. I am glad to see it at #36 although i feel it is
worthy of the top 20.This is David Fincher's finest hour as a director with his drab rainy
surroundings adding a superb drab atmosphere to a drab city. Andrew
Kevin Walker's script is however will be what remembered as an
incredible story, perfectly crafted and acted out beautifully by
Spacey, Freeman, Pitt and co.A MUST SEE FILM FOR EVERY FAN OF GREAT 90's MOVIES, ONE OF THE DECADES
GREATEST.

******
24 March 2013
8
I didn't really hold out much hope for SEVEN . It's a film that's
almost 20 years old and one that I frequently miss usually on purpose
when it's shown on television . I've always thought David Fincher was
painfully over rated . " Best director of his generation " claim many
people which is patently untrue if you've seen a film by Danny Boyle or
Darren Aronfsky or Ang Lee . The premise itself doesn't inspire
optimism being a couple of mismatched police partners trying to track
down a serial killer who is motivated by the seven deadly sins . I
almost believed I was going to be watching a reworking of the Vincent
Price camp classic horror movie THEATRE OF BLOOD without the funny bits
so I went in with very low expectations What Fincher has done is construct a thriller that is dialogue driven
with a sense of portent dread . It'd be very easy , perhaps too easy ,
to shock the audience with gore and startle moments . Instead the
director resists this very easy temptation and put the audience in the
shoes of detectives Somerset and Mills so this is a rare thriller where
the audience join up the dots when the detectives do . The film is
greatly helped by Morgan Freeman who was probably Hollywood's most
effective character actor at this point but both amazingly Pitt and
Spacey hold their own against this acting legend In short this is a very good gloomy thriller with very dark
cinematography and very dark subject matter . The fact that there's so
much understatement to it is refreshing and nearly 20 years after it
first hit the big screen it remains director David Fincher's best work

******
25 February 2009
9
"Se7en" (1995) Dir: David FincherThere's no cinematic theme I can think of that has run the gamut from
Trash to High Art (via Blockbuster) quite like the Serial Killer movie.
Throughout the history of the medium, many of these films have failed
to captivate large audiences the way that "Se7en" did and continues to
do, usually because they were either shamelessly exploitative or far
too deliberately psychological in their approach for most viewers. It's
a tough balance for a filmmaker to strike, but with "Se7en" David
Fincher made it look so simple. It is one of the best Serial Killer
movies ever made.Part of the reason film-goers consider Freeman, Pitt and Spacey so
highly today is because of "Se7en". All three actors excel in their
roles. Freeman's Detective Somerset is a week away from retirement when
he becomes involved, alongside his own replacement Detective Mills
(Pitt), in what is surely the most horrific multiple murder case of his
long career. Mills is determined not to shy away from his first case in
town, and is shown to be more impulsive than the erudite Somerset, who
immediately connects the killings to several great literary works
including "The Divine Comedy" and the writings of St Thomas Aquinas.
They are always lagging behind the killer, walking solemnly through
endless downpours to survey the crime scene of these increasingly sick
murders, barely able to grasp the calculated depravity of the man they
are chasing.There are brief meditations on human apathy by both Freeman's character
and the killer himself but aside from these, "Se7en" is essentially
plot- and character-driven. This works to its great advantage - too
much philosophy would have affected the momentum of the film, which is
expertly weighted and allowed to accumulate at the right points.
Nothing is clichéd, and there are no simplistic 'red herrings' to
stretch the action out. It is a thoroughly modern crime film that
borrows the religious themes from Horror and parts of its aesthetic
from Film Noir, successfully widening its appeal in the process.I've learnt to slightly concede in my critical judgement over years of
watching silent films, art films, propaganda films, slow-moving
European epics, counterculture movies et cetera, and so part of the
reason I enjoyed "Se7en" so much is that I didn't need to concede
anything while watching it. Quite the opposite, I was never anything
but totally gripped by it. This is the power of really decent American
film-making when it successfully balances visual style, directorial
control, individual performances and, above all, a great story (which I
won't spoil for you any further by elaborating upon in this review!)

******
7 February 2009
10
At one point in "Seven", Detective Somerset points out that if the
serial killer turns out to be the devil, that might live up to their
expectations. But who precisely is the man named John Doe? He might as
well be called 'the man in black'. He's a dark angel on a shoulder,
mine and yours, whispering truths we never care to learn. He's that
little voice inside ourselves we smother by apathy. He's the
anti-conscience unable to relativize the evil forces in this world. Or
maybe relativizing is just a term often used to mask the fear of facing
horrors we're unable to understand and overcome. So we don't even try
at all. Se7en is as much a thrilling puzzle as an ambiguous morality
piece. It present us with a vile world of unpunished sinners where even
the biggest heroes lose the fighting courage (Somerset), and even the
most driven good do-er minds are corrupted (Mills). Sound familiar?
While Noir cinema clearly influences Fincher's work, "Seven" plays in
present America, and by doing so becomes even more original and
relevant."Seven" at no point absolves the attrition ("When you regret your sins,
but not because you love God.") philosophy preached, but the movie
nevertheless sparks intrigue through it by making Kevin Spacey's John
Doe incredibly smart and - sidestepping the cliché- not ego-maniacal.
He massacres not for fame or as an ill-aimed attempt to avenge his
childhood traumas; he ends lives to prove a point. A point he's so
determined to make he's willing to give up his own life in doing so.
The point in question: sinners deserve to die. Do they? We all carry
the guilt of at least one mortal sin. Let he who is without sin throw
the first stone. I feel a little soiled quoting the bible, being an
agnostic. Fincher is an artist. He doesn't just state his point of view
or tries to indoctrinate viewers. In most movies, everything the killer
says is the opposite of the movie's message. Here, this rule does not
apply. Why? Well, because the center of all that is good and pure in
this movie, the young idealistic detective, succumbs to the temptations
of vengeance killing. So we basically have two horses pulling in
opposite direction. Ambiguous! I am firmly against capital punishment
personally, but the movie does very well in studying it's characters
thoroughly so their motivations ring true, twisted as they may be,
they're authentic. Besides the brilliant script, "Seven" has many other
virtues.A fault of many good movies, the fault that lowers their status from
great to good, is the lack of visual attraction. Many serious drama's
flaunt production values that barely rise above documentary level. If
you're using an audiovisual medium, actually use it. "Seven" includes
some terrific camera shots, Fincher follows the Noir school in making
optimal use of shadows, among others in a scene where the killer's
shadow looms in the rain puddle and subsequently threatens Detective
Mills at gunpoint . Fincher gives a creative spin even to fairly
standard thriller elements. The chase-sequence in the hallway for
instance, where the camera finds itself very far from the action so we
see the detective chasing a tiny silhouette. Instead of using up my
thousand words listing awe-inducing audiovisual elements(which I could
easily accomplish), I'll spend some attention on a curious element,
namely Brad Pitt's performance.A character actor like Morgan Freeman can be compared to a singer like
Frank Sinatra, he can't hit a false note if his life depended on trying
to do so. Even if the end result sometimes is less than impressive,
which occurs considering the multitude of roles he takes, he always
saves some of the grace. Brad Pitt on the other hand received more
spotlight on his looks than on his acting chops in the early days of
his career. The growth process of his acting ability curves bizarrely.
He performed remarkably in some early work ("Kalifornia", "12
Monkeys"), yet intersperses those bright bursts of talent with hammy,
flat turns in "Seven Years in Tibet", "Legends of the Fall", and
(certainly in comparison with Tom Cruise's phenomenal turn) "Interview
With The Vampire". My best guess? He needs a lot of direction. Why else
would Fincher get such a great performance out of him in "Seven" and,
let's not forget, "Fight Club"? Freeman and Pitt are star-crossed by
Spacey though, who - in a surprise, uncredited, appearance - steals the
movie. He plays the villain with a familiar patient smart aleckyness,
it's scary to think of how much of them could be living right next
door. Who hasn't got a theory that they're dying to get proved right?
How many of them will get the little push that they need? As Spacey
himself remarked once, people don't recognize him in foreign countries
because without his glasses he looks like an ordinary accountant. He's
the ideal choice for John Doe, bar none.Some critics have done injustice to "Seven" by naming it "a by the book
thriller". A by the book thriller doesn't deserve to get this much
recognition. A scintillating character study embedded into a thriller
plot however, that's a whole different story. Speaking of stories, the
greatest script writers have always understood the ending to be the
single most important part of any story. From "Psycho" over "The
Silence of The Lambs" to "The Usual Suspects", masterful conclusions
have blown audiences away, flooding them with emotions albeit surprise
or shock, anger or overwhelming sadness. This one is all of the above.
And it ranks among the very best of the nineties, as does the whole
film. It's not a stretch to call it the second most influential and
second best thriller of the '90s0

******
28 December 2008
10
"Se7en" may be one of the greatest movies I have ever seen. The idea is
very original and intense. The movie is not boring for a second. You
will be entertained the entire time. This movie is definitely not for
most people, but if you like violent and thrilling movies, this is a
definite see. This movie came out a long time ago, but it is up there
as one of the best movies in the past 20 years. Kevin Spacey plays an
astounding performance as "John Doe", the serial killer who uses the
seven deadly sins as a purpose to murder. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt
as well play excellent roles in this great movie. This movie is one of
my absolute favorites and I could watch it every week and never get
tired of it.

******
2 March 2008
9
Incredibly gritty, very fluid, and most disturbing are all ways that
one might describe David Fincher's Seven, a film, as all of these
reviews on here will attest to, is about a serial killer-maniac killing
people based on the seven deadly sins. There is little need to rehash
the plot here then but what makes Seven such a good film and one of the
best thrillers of the last few decades? 1). Two strong, key
performances by Brad Pitt and, in particular, Morgan Freeman as New
York police detectives just united as one, Pitt is coming, and the
other is about to retire. Freeman and Pitt have some chemistry between
them and let's face it - Freeman is just plain good at just about any
role he assays. Add to this strong supporting work from Paltrow and R.
Lee Ermey and especially Kevein Spacey as the killer. Spacey's voice
and looks sent chills down my spine each time he was on screen. 2)David
Fincher knows how to direct. This film is gross and really is selling a
very seedy product as something more. Fincher makes that happen with
the crisp dialog between Freeman and Pitt, the very low lighting
effects throughout, the quick pacing of the film, and the depth of
characterization that he allows his characters to have. 3) The story is
well-conceived, well-written, and just crazy enough to be believable.
The film has many scenes which are shocking and designed to be so -
they succeed. But behind all that blood and seedy atmosphere lies a
chess game between two police detectives - each good at what he does in
a different manner - and one crazy but brilliant sociopath killer. The
journey they take us on is one scary ride.

******
11 February 2004
9

This great thriller is about a serial killer (Kevin Spacey) and his Se7en
victims who represent the Se7en deadly sins. Two cops (Morgan Freeman &
Brad
Pitt) have been assigned to investigate this case.This is the best movie of the 90's, it has great thrilling moments, Morgan
Freeman & Brad Pitts performances are excellent. Se7en has one of the best
but shocking and surprising endings of all time. The end is something
nobody
would expect, i kept rewinding over and over again to see them 3 short
seconds where you see... (im not going to spoil the movie).Kevin Spacey's role in this movie was a surprise for everyone, well except
for the people who use IMDB, it said who the killer was played
by.The most shocking moment for me was when you see that body on the bed and
everyone thinks that person is dead because of the state of the body, but
its not, that scene shocked me alot, i never forgot it and never
will.Overall i gave Se7en 9/10, everyone that likes thrillers should go see
this
movie, HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.


******
8 September 2003
10

Se7en is excellent thrilling mystery that has a great cast! Brad Pitt was
very good and at the when he found out, his acting was superb! Morgan
Freeman was also excellent! Kevin Spacey played John Doe flawlessly!
Gwyneth
Paltrow was good. R. Lee Ermey was good as always! It was surprising to
see
Richard Roundtree in the movie. John C. McGinley had a small part which he
did good for the limited time he got to perform and Richard Portnow was
good. The music by Howard Shore was very good. David Fincher's directing
was
unique! The last part of the movie when John Doe turns himself, when he is
in the car with Pitt and Freeman, and when they were on the desert and the
helicopter scenes were through the binoculars, and when Pitt and Freeman
were going back and forth, that entire scene is one of the greatest in
cinematic history! This film is really horrifying and not for the
squeamish
but if you love gruesome murder mystery movies this is a great one to
watch!

******
16 May 2003
7

"Se7en" was the serial killer movie of the week at the time of its release. 
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt--apparently representing Reason and Passion,
respectively--are cops on the trail of a serial killer. Kevin Spacey plays
the killer as a Hannibal Lecter wannabe with a vengeful-angry-God complex:
he bumps his victims off in ways that reflect the Seven Deadly Sins.  Not a
new idea; Vincent Price made two similarly-constructed movies in the '70s:
"The Abominable Dr. Phibes," in which the inspiration is the ten curses of
Pharaoh in the book of Exodus; and "Theater of Blood," in which
Shakespeare's plays provide the motifs.  ("Se7en" makes a nod in the
direction of its predecessors by mentioning the "pound of flesh" associated
with one of the murders.)  The difference is that the Price movies were jet-black comedies, while
"Se7en" is a straightforward suspense thriller, and a relentlessly grim,
gray, dark, rain-soaked one at that.  It's technically well-made and
unusually literate, drawing themes from Dante, Milton, Shakespeare, and
medieval theology.  And there's a strong echo of Dostoevsky's "Notes from
the Underground": when the killer's lair is located, it's found to contain
2000 handwritten notebook journals of 250 pages each.  (Quibbles: if he
writes that much, when does he find time to do anything else... such as plan
and execute fiendishly clever crimes?  Also, we're told that none of the
journals or entries are dated.  As one who has kept a daily journal for ten
years, I find that unlikely, especially since the killer is ultimately
revealed to be even more, shall we say, detail-oriented than I
am.)The movie's ending (which I won't reveal here) is distressingly
downbeat--and surprisingly so, as well.  It leaves a nasty aftertaste.  It
could be argued that anything less would've been a cop-out, but it still was
about as entertaining as a sucker punch.  "The Silence of the Lambs" left us
with Lecter on the loose, but at least there was salvation (the girl was
rescued), redemption (the lambs were silenced), and retribution (the killer
was dispatched without the incidental destruction of anyone else).  By
contrast, "Se7en," which offers none of the above, is easy to admire, but
hard to enjoy.

******
21 January 2002
7

I thought this movie was a pretty remarkable exercise in style and an
incredibly controlled performance by Morgan Freeman.  Most of it is kinda
cliched  the retiring cop breaks-in a rookie (by-the-book vs. the loose
cannon working on a hunch), the clever serial killer, the soulless city, the
standard noir ending where the searcher realizes that he is what he's been
searching for and so on.  
The art direction is wonderful, with a real attention to
detail.
The movie makes for riveting viewing the first time around.  I find myself
skipping chapters though when I try to watch it again.To make the last act measure up to the first hour of the movie, I think the
writing should have emphasized the idea that the wrath/envy set up was an
example of John Doe improvising after the detectives found his apartment. 
The wrath/envy scene doesn't have nearly the convoluted menace of the Sloth
or Gluttony scenes.  It's a noir thriller and Gwen is unaccounted for - the
end seemed pretty obvious to me compared to the craziness of "HELP ME" in
fingerprints.


******
2 January 2013
7
Throughout history the Bible and its wisdom have been used as an excuse
for murder. The director in "Seven" cleverly makes use the seven sins
as Kevin Spacey's Divine permission to commit the biggest biblical sin
of them all; murder! While Spacey is sacrificing his victims in the
name of religion and punishing them in graphical behavior for their
weaknesses; Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt appear as the prophets
defending and protecting all that is good by trying to catch him. The
director David Fincher keeps you on the edge of your seat as you watch
each brutal murder appear across the screen and as you watch Freeman
and Pitt getting closer to their killer. Freeman always appears the
wiser while Pitt gets more and more engulfed with rage as the killer
taunts his pursuers while punishing his victims. We the viewers, are
filled with anger and wrath (one of the sins themselves), as we want
the killer to be caught but we realize at the end that he wants more
than that! At the end the shocking revelation takes over our minds and
fills us with even greater anger as we want Spacey punished! We also
want him dead for his last brutal act! We also want Pitt to kill him!
The question to be asked, is the unborn child saved from been born in a
world full of religious contradiction or should those who wrong us be
punished without question?

******
15 September 2007
9
After years of experiencing dull, formulaic, clichèd so-called
thrillers, it's always satisfying when a genuinely great movie comes
along. I have absolutely no hesitation in proclaiming 'Se7en' to be
such a film, with director David Fincher  after achieving a somewhat
mixed result in his cinematic debut, 'Alien³'  firmly proclaiming his
place as one of the 1990's most promising new talents. It's somewhat
surprising that the movie had managed to elude me for so long, since
I'd been wanting to see it for a while, and it was only last week that
I managed to get my hands on a DVD copy. And so, without further ado, I
invited over a friend, who has an equal partiality towards good
thrillers, and enthusiastically promised him one of the best of its
decade. 'Se7en' didn't disappoint.The film takes place in a dark, gritty, unnamed metropolis, where it is
always raining and danger looms ominously from every alleyway. Reserved
and hardened Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) has seen
it all in his lifetime, and is finally preparing to retire to the
country, away from the madness of the city. His replacement, impulsive
Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt), has transferred here at his own
request, and is eager to make his mark, even though his career choice
could be harming the wellbeing of his lonely and vulnerable wife, Tracy
(Gwyneth Paltrow). Both detectives are soon drawn into the case of a
serial killer, John Doe, who is ritualistically murdering his victims
according to the Seven Deadly Sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, lust,
pride, envy and wrath. As the murders begin piling up, the two
detectives' investigation becomes an obsession, and the inevitable
outcome will drastically change the lives of both. Throughout the film,
Brad Pitt provides most of the comic relief, none of which detracts at
all from the horrors we are witnessing on screen.David Fincher has a unique visual style that is simply thrilling to
watch. Despite the thematically dark tone of the story, the film itself
is positively brimming with invigorating and vibrantly-contrasted
colour and lighting. The graphic murder scenes appear to splash out of
the screen, before our very eyes, enhancing the feelings of dread and
repulsion that accompany John Doe's horrific acts of murder. The rich,
highly-stylised use of colour also helps create a memorable atmosphere
of sheer foreboding; the imagery is sure to stay with you for many
years to come. Even as 'Se7en' abandons the gritty setting of the city
for the final act  shifting the action to a starkly-lit open field
beside a trail of electric power-lines  the film loses none of its
potency, the isolation of the climactic arena seemingly leaving our
main protagonists even more helpless and vulnerable than before.Our villain is anonymously titled John Doe, and is played with
delightful creepiness by Kevin Spacey, who only agreed to the part
under the condition that he remain unbilled in the promotion and
opening credits of the film. Unlike your typical serial killer, John
Doe is not a crazy, impulsive and stupid mad-man, but something rather
more terrifying: he is intelligent, patient and methodical. In one
particularly ghastly crime, he keeps a convicted drug dealer chained to
his bed for an entire year, removing his hands and his tongue, and
regularly paying his rent so as to not arouse any suspicions. John
Doe's entire life has been dedicated to Mankind's obsession with
committing sin, and, through orchestrating his crimes, he wishes to
preach to the society of their transgressions. John Doe, rather
uniquely, is given a large portion of the film's final half-hour, and
so he becomes a character that we come to know very well, as opposed to
the half-constructed serial killers who usually turn up in the final
five minutes only to be shot by the hero. Spacey is very good in the
role, though I can't help but feel that his performance would have been
even more effective had I not been familiar with much of his later film
work.The most exciting scene in the film is undoubtedly the hectic
foot-chase that ensues when John Doe arrives home to his apartment,
only to find Detectives Somerset and Mills waiting patiently outside
his door. However, the film's climax is also well worth mentioning:
though many interpretations have been floating around, my view is that
the final two victims are John Doe himself ("Envy") and David Mills
("Wrath"). In order to prevent himself from being labeled a hypocrite,
as Mills had suggested during the car-ride, Doe allowed his own deadly
sin - envy - to result in the death of Tracy, and so enticed Mills to
shoot him, simultaneously becoming the sixth victim and prompting Mills
to commit the seventh sin. Some have argued that, since Mills didn't
die, he can't be perceived as one of Doe's victims, but is being left
alive in these circumstances perhaps even a more diabolical punishment?

******
2 August 2005
10
I never understood why Seven was never given the credit it truly
deserves. This movie has a total package. You get horror(in its purest
form), suspense, drama and lots of action. I would rate Seven as one of
my favorite horror flicks. The way the film concludes with all seven
sins being committed and the way the last two unfold is magnificent
writing. The sadistic style in which John Doe disposes of his victims
highlights the suspense aspect perfectly. I don't know if there has
been a better selected cast. Brad Pitt as the rookie, cocky detective.
Morgan Freeman(one of my personal faves) as the veteran. Best of all
Kevin Spacey as the macabre and very twisted John Doe. If you haven't
seen this movie, rent it Tonnie.

******
8 July 2005
9
This story takes you where it wants you to go. The proof is that while there are some gruesome acts in this movie (you
only see the aftermath, no action), the most disturbing crime in the
movie is the least gruesome. There are very few movies that pull-off a mix of repulsive crime and
psychological involvement as well as this one.The character development was done very well with while not distracting
you by burying you in the personal life of each characterInitially, I felt the main detective character was a little
unbelievable a bit too methodical. As the character developed though,
you start to see that as a part of his personality, the element that
levels the playing field between him and the criminal. In the end, I
found him to be as diabolically analytical as the criminal.The chess game between the main detective and the criminal was
flawless. Had they got the criminal into custody any other way than
they did.. it would have ruined the movie.

******
8 July 2005
10
I went to a friends house last night and rented movies. I picked Se7en
to rent because I've always wanted to see it since I saw David
Fincher's masterpiece, Fight Club and his well made thriller, Panic
Room. People have always said this movie was good so I wanted to see it
if they were right and they were sure right. Seven is an insanely
brilliant film from start to finish. The performances by Morgan
Freeman, Kevin Spacey, and especially Brad Pitt are all phenomenal in
this chiller. The movie was just plain out suspenseful and left my
heart beating fast til the movie was done. The twist at the end was
very intense and you never knew it was coming. Totally unpredictable.
Overall, a fantastic film and David Fincher is a pure genius when it
comes to smart films and Se7en deserves to be one of the greatest
thrillers that has ever been made. I highly recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook: 9.5/10 **** A

******
4 July 2005
10
This movie really is a modern day classic. The film is a true suspense
film that always has you at the edge of your seat from beginning to
end. It truly is a great film for anyone to see. So I'll give it 20 out
of 10! The scenes were shot great and very dark so it made you really
interested. Brad Pitt played a phenomenal part as the new detective,
and Morgan Freeman as the old going to retire cop. they both had great
chemistry between their characters and that really helps the film. But
the most greatest part in the film was the ending! You would have never
thought that the killer would go to that extent! I will not give out
the ending, but believe me, you'll be be shocked!

******
2 July 2005
9
Se7en is a reflection of our everyday life, we live in a world filled
with media & information technology which makes people often live
beside each other instead of with each other, even though the serial
killer is portrayed as the devil in this movie i can empathize with his
feelings/opinion about seeing sins on every corner of the streets. The
intellectual, patient personality that's Sommerset & the young
rebellious "let's dance" Mills really contrast each other, creating
interesting character development.We as the audience are confronted with biblical/religious statements
throughout progress of the film concerning homocide cases, if Sommerset
had to choose a playing card then he'd retire as soon as possible, he's
been doing detective work for way to long, but however he does get
motivated by the unusual case of 7 sins that are about to unfold
including all the plot twists & turns.Se7en has been directed with unusual grimmy & dark look, during the
film it's constantly raining, as if time never seems to change the mood
is captured with great directorial vision, the dark & wet apartments
that seem to be abandonded for ages, a combination of brown & black
colors recreating a new kind of innovative film noir, consciously
leading us to unique cinematographic history.Sommerset comes to terms with our serial killer John Doe & even though
they might agree on certain points when it comes to the subject of
everyday life, these 2 characters are worlds apart at the same time, in
a sense that John Doe murders his victims using the 7 deadly sins.Pacing of this movie is nice but if you're expecting a big action
movie, perhaps you're better of watching a vin diesel (XXX) movie.
We're invited by the director to be intellectually stimulated, while
the story develops we must think along, asking ourselves new questions
about every single horror murder committed as we go.With that said the film is in my humble opinion highly recommended,
especially if you're a fan of the acting skills of Brad Pitt & Morgan
Freeman, it's got quality(not much though)action, dark mood, acting,
story development, character development, mystery, among others. Even
though not for the faint hearted, since some scenes of the committed
murders are visually shocking to say the least (adult rated), Se7en is
a great police drama by director David Fincher. * * * * * * * * * 9 OUT
0F 10 STARS !

******
11 May 2005
10
Se7en is great. Need I go on? Alright... Se7en starts off nicely making
it look like another day at work. Well it is, but it's the beginning of
something big. Not 5min into the movie and we're introduced to the
first murder scene which is a obese man with his hands tied together
under the table and his face smashed into a pile of noodles. He's
obviously dead. The killer in this movie picks his victims according to
the seven deadly sins, which if you don't know are: greed, gluttony,
lust, pride, wrath, envy, and sloth. The killer is very original in the
style he kills his victims, which are often times very gruesome.
Although they don't really show any killings in here just the way they
implied lust was enough to turn my stomach. The movie does a great job
with its dark setting and bad neighborhood. Symbolic that this city
sucks and is run down. The acting by Mordan Freeman and Brad Pitt is
sensational, as well as Kevin Spacy's acting, whom I praise for his
role. Overall this is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and the
ending... oh buddy, the ending will getcha.

******
23 July 2004
10

David Fincher has become one of Hollywood's most wanted directors since this
film and this is a fantastic film. Since this he hasn't done a bad film, in
fact most are excellent. Seven is more conventional than his films the Game
and Fight Club but it has a great script which is fantastically directed.
The actors of the film are of the highest calibre. Morgan Freeman, Brad
Pitt, Gwynith Paltrow and Kevin Spacey are all fantastic, Freeman and Spacey
in particular. The film has plenty of twists and is involving while
everything comes to a shocking and stomach churning ending. This is
definitely one of the best crime thrillers ever made.As with other Fincher movies it looks fantastic. The cinematography is
outstanding. The score is also fantastic and the overall look and sound of
the film is top class. This is a modern classic, no doubt.
*****

******
26 April 2011
4
Let me begin by saying that when I watched this movie I loved it. It
had a stellar cast and an amazing concept. The plot was at just the
right pace and never bored me. It had a dark theme although this theme
worked perfectly for the way the movie ran. The thing that ruined the movie for me was the ending. First of all the
fact that it was Kevin Spacy that was John Doe was obvious. Did anyone
have trouble discerning that the caller was Spacy? However, that only
bothered me because the filmmakers though the audience was so stupid
that they could not know Kevin Spacy would be in it from the beginning.The real issue was the fate of the last two sins. I do not remember the
order, however, Gluttony, Greed, Pride, Lust and Sloth were all
murdered before John Doe turned himself in. Then he turns himself in
and somehow convinces the detectives to bring him to the open field.
Then the head in the box sparks Brad Pitt's Wrath into killing Spacy's
Envy. The problem that I had with this ending was that Greed, Gluttony,
Pride, Sloth, Lust, and Envy are murdered and Wrath goes to prison. The
penalty for the other six sins are death, but, the penalty for Wrath is
prison. The concept makes no sense whatsoever. They should either all
go to prison or all die. Make up your mind.If I could have changed the ending it would be something like this:
-Instead of John Doe turning himself in he calls Brad Pitt and says
that Pitt and Freeman must meet him in this open field. They must come
alone. When they arrive Doe then draws a gun and makes Pitt and Freeman
put theirs away. Freeman is sent back a few yards and Spacy gives Pitt
the box with the head. Before Pitt opens the box Spacy puts away the
gun. Pitt is then overcome with Wrath, draws his gun, and shoots Spacy.
Only known to Spacy, a bomb is strapped to his chest with a dead mans
switch. Thus the bomb explodes killing Pitt.Therefore in my alternate ending Spacy dies from his Envy and Pitt's
Wrath kills himself.Just a thought.

******
23 August 2011
1
I'm surprised this film is even listed in the top 250 and that it got
this much praise. It really wasn't that good a movie. I liked the
concept and I love Morgan Freeman, but this movie just blew it.I didn't like some characters - mainly Mills -, the interaction between
characters and especially the script.Mills was annoying and overrated, a worthless character and Pitt
playing him only made it worse. During the movie I kept thinking that I
might be OK with Mills if he had been played by anyone other/better
than Pitt, but I'm guessing they wouldn't have wanted to play such a
lame character. I can't take a crime movie seriously when it has an
unprofessional moron as a detective. Bringing his wife in the scene
made the movie made all the rest painfully obvious. Appears only one
scene, what's the point of her role? Oh yes, she's going to die.Freeman and Spacey were great. The script is a puddle of vomit, and
they still managed to act it out brilliantly. I think I hated the
script more than I hate Mills. Excessive swearing (I don't twist my
pants at foul language, but there are so many scenes that could've done
without it so the viewer would take the guys more seriously. Also, the
words lose their impact when you say it a million freaking times.) and
weak interaction. The ending was the worst of all. The conversation in
the police car was so horribly dumb that it made me want to shake the
writer. It would've been so much better if Mills wasn't such a weak
character. If he had just shut his damn mouth. The ending was predictable. You'd have to be really thick to not have
seen that one of our main characters would eventually be one of the
"victims". Especially after getting to see the wife. The build up was
for nothing. I had a tiny hope for something grand and grimy, since
Spacey convinced me with his "what I've done is going to be puzzled
over, studied and followed" talk but he just disappointed me in the
end. The ending scene was one big anticlimax.And again, it made me dislike Mills' character that much more, because
I was hoping he wouldn't shoot him. That I might get a reason to
respect him as a character. I don't care if a movie ends good or not,
but the movie would've ended on a strong note if he hadn't killed Doe.
It's been nothing but a bit of gore and knowing what would happen next.
A waste of time basically.1/10 because I want to even out the balance a bit. I'd give a 5, but I
really don't think this movie deserves the praise it got.

******
26 February 2011
1
I can't remember the last movie I saw that was this full of crap. How
did they convince that cast this story would be anything other than the
"t-shirt"/"movie of the week" Brad Pitt's character said it was going
to be? The performances were fine (particularly Freeman's and
Spacey's). The script, however, was a travesty.First, the consistency of the killings is completely muddled. The first
five murders were committed by Spacey's character ("John Doe"--how
original) because of what he perceives to be the sins committed by
those he's killed. OK so far. The 6th murder (of Paltrow's character)
is also done by Doe, but not because of a sin she's committed, rather
because of the sin Doe perceives HE has committed. Got that? And the
7th murder is done by Pitt's character to Doe because of the sin Mills
(Pitt) carries with him (I guess?). But even if you link the "Envy"
murder of Doe by Mills as one of the 7 sinners who "deserved" to be
killed for their sin, why was Paltrow's character killed again? And
along with that, why does Pitt's character get to live for the sin of
Wrath? Another plot point that I don't think can be overlooked... If Doe was
the religious lunatic he was presented to be, the murder of Paltrow's
character and her unborn child would surely have been the 6th AND 7th
murders. Doe was aware she's pregnant. Of course, how do you link an
unborn child with a deadly sin? I see the writer's problem. His
solution was a train wreck.I also didn't buy at all that Doe was actually envious of Pitt's
character. It made for a quirky plot twist, but it seemed so
inconsistent for that character. It also didn't make much sense from a
plot perspective (see paragraph above).Have I got to 7 things yet? Did I mention the silly 7 in the title? How
about the constant allusions to Somerset's knife, the knife tossing,
etc... which turns out to be needed most in the film to open a box? I guess if you make the assumption that John Doe is insane, then this
master plan might make sense to the audience: He's insane, his plan
probably shouldn't make sense. But to think that his plan worked,
succeeded, was effective or even consistent at all (as Somerset's
character implies by telling Mills not to kill Doe and fulfill Doe's
plan), is giving WAY to much credit to the writer, and almost no credit
to the audience. I recently saw and reviewed Michael Haneke's "Funny Games" which would
fall into the same psychological/horror/thriller genre as "Se7en". And
as much as I was affected by "Funny Games" and impressed by Haneke's
vision and direction, I said that I couldn't responsibly recommend it.
After seeing "Se7en", however, I finally found Haneke's target
audience. If "Se7en" is on your recommended must-see list, then "Funny
Games" is really the must-see movie for you.

******
10 December 2015
8
This movie is regarded as the definition of a modern thriller. It is
easy to see why, as it is easily one of the most suspenseful movies I
have ever seen. What added to this suspense, was the straightforward,
yet grim storyline, that keeps the audience interested.The plot revolves around two detectives, William Somerset, and David
Mills, trying to solve the mystery of a serial killer. That killer,
John Doe, leaves clues around for unknown reasons. Detective Somerset
believes he (the killer) is following the seven deadly sins (hence the
title Seven, or Se7en, and is leading them to something. What this is,
is unclear, but they do eventually capture him, and he reveals that his
final victim, is David's wife Tracy, thus showing he was playing a game
with them all along.There are few movies I have seen, before or since, that are suspenseful
as this. It is also quite bleak, which did admittedly put me off at
times. It is still a great film, definitely worth a watch, if you are
old enough (remembering this movie is rated R), and whether or not you
enjoy it, you will probably find it interesting. From me it gets 8/10

******
12 November 2015
8
I arrived 20 years to late for the hype of this movie but that doesn't
make it any different. One of my favourite thrillers. They don't make
them like these anymore.. Realistic characters, an evil serial killer
but not as much emphasis on gore more storyline.David Fincher did a class job, acting from Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman,
Gwyneth Paltrow and Kevin Spacey was beyond outstanding.Se7en follows detectives Somerset and Mill... Somerset is an older
mature detective whos ready to retire whilst Mills is an energetic yet
not as knowledgeable, we see more of Mill' private life with his wife
Tracy.The movie kicks off after the murder of an obese man... suspicious but
no motive the cops are at a standstill. That is until a wealthy lawyer
gets killed and in blood 'Greed' is written. Knowing there is a serial
killer on the loose its down to the detectives to hunt a man with an
obsession with the deadly sins killing innocent people.The ending to this movie I like a lot, I wont give it away but it shows
how sick and twisted minds of serial killers are.Se7en will surely stick in your mind

******
13 July 2015
10
This film got everything right! I mean every single casting choice,
scene, and line was perfect! This was Brad Pitt's best role in movie, I
don't recall a movie where he ever achieved better acting than here.
Also, in my opinion, the same goes for Morgan freeman, him and Brad
make a great on screen team. The film was a real mind bender, which I
love! The dialogue was unbelievably great! The plot was so genius as
well. The twist ending was one of the best twist endings I've ever seen
hands down! This movie has perfect acting, characters, plot, dialogue,
ending, and it definitely keeps your attention throughout, I wasn't
bored once, and that's very important to me! 10/10, not a single flaw
👍🏼

******
1 March 2014
10
After his calamitous experience working on his début film Alien 3
(1992), David Fincher took on a small genre picture that, little did he
know, would revitalise his career and become one of the greatest films
of the 1990's. Se7en appears to begin as your typical detective neo-
noir, with the cynical veteran and the naive rookie taking on an
elusive serial killer seemed hell-bent on turning the sin against the
sinner. But, set in an unnamed and permanently drizzly American city,
Se7en is a meditation on evil and a pessimist's depiction on the modern
world, climaxing in one of the bravest and most memorable endings in
Hollywood history.Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is on the verge of retirement,
where he plans to leave his inner-city life behind him after years of
fighting on the side of good. His replacement is the brash Detective
Mills (Brad Pitt), an optimistic young recruit eager to learn, who
Somerset takes under his wing. Their first homicide investigation
involves an obese man who has been fed at gunpoint to the point of
causing his stomach to rupture. With Somerset ready to leave the force,
Mills takes on his first solo case in the murder of a rich attorney, a
man forced to cut a pound of flesh from his own body. The murder scene
has the words 'greed' written in blood. Somerset eventually finds the
word 'gluttony' etched in grease in the apartment of the first victim,
and he becomes convinced the murders are connected, and that the killer
is murdering under the guidance of the seven deadly sins.The genius of Se7en is rooted in the way the movie keeps the audience
as clueless as the detectives. Normally in genre pictures such as this,
we either know who the killer is and eagerly wait for the investigators
to put the pieces together, or we have a line-up of suspects and red
herrings to decide from. Here, apart from brief glimpses during a
thrilling chase scene, we are devoid of clues. The killer is always one
step ahead of Somerset and Mills, alluding to the idea that the
mysterious 'John Doe' is indeed having his work guided by a higher
power. Of course, he is not, he is merely a man, but this helps gives
Se7en dramatic weight, rather than it becoming a nihilistic exercise in
cruelty.When, three-quarters of the movie in, the killer hands himself in, the
movie becomes a masterclass in writing, slowly building into one of the
greatest climaxes in film. Somerset, a decent man who has devoted his
life to the side of good but has had the fight slowly drained out of
him, meets his nemesis in John Doe (Kevin Spacey). But as they talk,
Doe's reasoning becomes clear and, shockingly, almost sympathetic.
"Wanting people to listen, you can't just tap them on the shoulder
anymore, you have to hit them with a sledgehammer," he says. It's about
a world gone to s**t, a view shared by Mills' wife Tracy (Gwyneth
Paltrow), who talks to Somerset in a diner about allowing a baby to be
born into the world after discovering she is pregnant. Cerebral and
Gothic, Se7en transcends the genre on so many levels thanks to some
bleak yet stylish direction by Fincher, and it still manages to astound
after almost 20 years of repeat viewings.www.the-wrath-of-blog.blogspot.com

******
20 February 2014
10
For whatever reason, it is almost always raining in the city in which
this film takes place. In the pre-credits sequence, Mills and Somerset
stand outside in the rain. Somerset asks Mills why he would ever want
to come here - the city is dank, gritty, riddled with crime. Perhaps at
the end of it all, Mills would ask himself the same question. It - and
he - is about to become terrorised by a serial killer of otherworldly
proportions.The killings are committed as ironic punishments against those who have
been seen to commit one of the seven deadly sins. They are grotesque,
even creative in a morbid kind of way. Somerset suggests that these
killings are linked, and that the killer is preaching. Just what about,
they're yet to know.Seven is marked by a remarkably dense atmosphere. The cinematography is
deceptively gorgeous, bringing with it a strange contradiction to the
urban decay and grime of the city. The villain, an elusive figure known
only by John Doe, seems to be a figment of their imagination. They
can't find any clues or leads. There isn't any forensic evidence. The
killings themselves are the only indication that he even exists. His
intangibility takes on a a haunting presence, an almost supernatural
quality. And yet, Seven walks the fine line, never making you feel like
it is unrealistic. The film becomes surreal without being fantastical.Seven has a screenplay that could have made Alfred Hitchcock wince. The
idea of dense plotting seems to no longer take on a meaning. The film
carries constant existential dread with it, that inevitable chaos and
tragedy will befall the main characters. It manages to make a run of
the mill dinner scene between the main characters an exercise in
inexplicable suspense. Yet at the same time it twists and turns at a
frantic pace. You have no idea what will happen next. You couldn't
possibly guess. With these two elements entwined, it escalates towards
the unbearable.Grounding all of this is a cast of strong, believable characters.
Grounding them is a masterclass of acting. Morgan Freeman is a
regularly acclaimed actor, so I don't mean it lightly when I say this
is the best performance of his career. His silent despair and visible
insecurity as the case falls apart in his hands is the emotional
vehicle of the film. Brad Pitt brings great energy and intensity with
him as his young sidekick, and the chemistry between the two is
fantastic. The seemingly generic pairing of a to-retire veteran and
hot-headed rookie is played straight with courage. The depth of the
characters and the strength of the actors' performances keeps things
fresh and interesting. The rest of the film is bolstered by these
strengths.With tight pacing, dense plotting, fantastic cinematography, brilliant
acting and an incredible supporting role from Kevin Spacey, Seven is a
modern classic. It is polished in almost every degree. It makes every
other crime drama look like a textbook. We may never see something like
this ever again.

******
17 January 2014
9
I am glad I knew as little as possible about the movie before watching
it. Seven is a meticulously crafted psychological thriller and one of
David Fincher's best films! That shocking ending blew me away and
completely caught me off guard. Seeing the two detectives following the
leads and clues to catch the killer was always riveting and thrilling,
so the whole journey to discover his real intentions was quite
interesting to watch. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are excellent as
always, but Kevin Spacey is the one who steals the show as the
ingenious serial killer, who is usually one step ahead of them. David
Fincher is truly one of the greatest filmmakers of our time and I still
haven't been disappointed by his work so far.

******
27 November 2013
10
I've watched this true masterpiece several times over the years,I have
yet to watch a film that comes anywhere near it in terms of pure horror
at the lengths humans will go to inflict pain on each other... The
brilliance of this film is you don't see the acts been done,it's left
to your own imagination. Brad Pitt,Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey are
fantastically cast , the setting is wet and dark,( you never find out
where the city is meant to be ).A Constant feeling of dread runs
through this film which I can only say is an absolute must watch movie.
Its is in my(and many others) opinion, probably one the best films ever
made in the history of film making .. WATCH IT!

******
31 July 2013
10
Its today's cult status this movie gained thanks to the excellent work
of director David Fincher (whom this was only the second major movie in
his career) and screenwriter A.K.Walker (who also wrote the screenplay
for "8MM"). With this film Fincher ranked himself among the most wanted
directors and gained a reputation of true heir of Hitchcock, which was
confirmed by his later movies "Play" and "Panic Room". The assignment
of roles in the movie is excellent, and I especially need to emphasize
Brad Pitt's acting (as in "Fight Club") which proved that he is not
just a beauty figure whose main task is to lure women to cinemas, but
also showed that he knows to act! Freeman is excellent in the role of a
veteran detective - like it was made for him, and Spacey in the role of
the killer was, as usual, brilliant and gravely. The atmosphere of the
film is so dark and depressing that the bizarre and terrible murders
make it even more stressful. I was particularly impressed by the way
murders were described, which are quite original and leave a big
impression on the viewer. (Something like that was attempted in
"Resurrection" with C.Lambert but not very successfully, and "Saw" -
interesting, but not on a par with "Se7en"). All in all this is an
excellent and original movie which is rarely seen.

******
31 December 2012
10
Remember the Silence of the Lambs which is regarded as the greatest
Crime/Thriller film of all time. Well, Fincher's Se7en can rival that
masterpiece.Se7en contains everything that a film should contain. It has a superbly
created soundtrack by Howard Shore who rightfully, deserved an Oscar
for this work. The correct casting is given for Dt. Somerset as Morgan
Freeman and Dt. Mills as Brad Pitt. This really begun Pitt's career as
a great actor. The two, on screen, share incredible chemistry that
automatically bonds them together well. The story itself is remarkable and easy to follow. It follows the story
of a serial killer who uses the Seven Deadly Sins to kill seven of his
enemies in order to complete his masterpiece and in order for the world
to remember and respect the seven sins. The film has that mysterious
tone to it and gives certain creeps. The characters in this film are
quite memorable and they themselves boost the film. The acting in the film is just sensational, the directing and pacing is
just brilliant and there really wasn't a slow part of the film. All
characters were enjoyable and so, the film seemed more enjoyable. Kevin
Spacey did a fantastic job at playing John Doe. The first time we see
John Doe as he shoots the detectives, we don't believe him as such a
threat but later on in the film, as he reveals himself to the
detectives, we understand the mastermind he really is. This character,
more and more, reminds me of Hannibal Lecter. The ending contains such a brilliant turn of events that the film
itself becomes better.****SPOILER****When Somerset warns Mills not to shoot John Doe due to his outrage at
John killing his wife due to the sin 'Envy' and Mills himself finishes
John's mastermind, and therefore John wins, as Mills commits the
seventh and final sin, Wrath at losing his beloved. ***END OF SPOILER***Therefore, comes the end of my review to one of the greatest movies
ever made...PERIOD!

******
29 December 2012
9
As a 15 year old, I did not know what to expect from the movie. All I
knew is that it was supposedly good and that the actors were the best
there are. The storyline takes the viewer on a journey along with the
characters. The viewer soon begins to empathise with Brad Pitt's
seemingly over- confident character. This is similar for Morgan
Freeman's cool, calm and collected camera. This turns out to be
significant towards the end of the movie. This movie is no murder
mystery like any other, and perhaps not much of a murder mystery at
all. This is due to the difficulty that the detectives have when
attempting to solve the case. With any other actors, the movie may have
been unbearable as it is often slow paced. However the acting was so
real and, well, brilliant that you can't take your eyes off the screen
for one second. All in all, the magnificent, unpredictable storyline
combined with brilliant acting makes this movie a must- watch for all
fans of film.

******
1 September 2012
10
If you will see this movie the first thing will come into your mind
will be"Oh my god". This is a tale of a serial killer and let me tell
you this one is quite different from other you seen. This guy (kevins.)
is looking so intense in the movie. Though the story seems fit to the
characters but the creepiness of the main idea is very unique....!! And
like always brad pit is looking handsome and morgen is intelligent but
kevin is a winner in this movie. when i saw this movie last night i
wasn't thinking that it will be so intense like its review says on IMDb
but just after watching it for 30 min. it gripped me in such a ways
which words can not define. this is movie which you will remember for a
lifetime and discuss with 1000 people and everyone will have the
different theory for the characters but i bet on that - everybody will
be agree on the idea and the intensity of the movie. A must watch if
you like the serial killer movie and light blood n gore but i bet the
idea will more hit you then this. I am giving it 10/10!! Best in its
category.

******
4 July 2012
9
Seven is a superb suspense thriller. The movie is binding with stellar
performances by all the actors. Brad Pitt in his portrayal of a
detective who is impatient with his partner is perfect , so is Morgan
Freeman calm and calculated and , Kevin Spacey the serial killer who
thinks his killings are justified .Gwyneth Paltrow also is brilliant
playing a wife full of hopes.The seven deadly sins are not a monarchy to anyone , each one of us in
a way is affected and how deeply rooted they may be even in good people
keeps us thinking long after the movie is over. The story telling is
great and so is the direction , a must watch.

******
15 June 2012
9
David Fincher, Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt and Kevin Spacey: You can't go
wrong with this team, can you? This is why Se7en is 9 out of 10 for me.
Almost perfect among the films categorized in the group of
thriller/crime movies. With a very solid plot which does not allow the
film to turn into a cliché about cops chasing a serial killer, Se7en
stands out as a successful thriller. It's a good crime/mystery story
delivered by exceptionally good acting, very good directing and a
flawless screenplay. While Morgan Freeman steals the show, Brad Pitt
proves that he's a promising actor, and not just one of the most
handsome men in Hollywood. Needless to say, Kevin Spacey's performance
as John Doe leads to one of the unforgettable villains on big screen.
All in all, it's a must-see and definitely one of the best of its kind.

******
12 June 2012
8
Are you afraid of the deathly sins? By Dionne van der Nat, Floris van
Hoogdalem and Myrte TjoaThis review is about the film 'Seven', directed by David Fincher. The
film is set in 1995, the year in which the movie was released. In which
city the film is set, is unclear and unmentioned in the film. The two
main characters, detectives Mills and Somerset are played by Brad Pitt
and Morgan Freeman. It is a thriller which is very well directed and
acted.The film se7en is about two detectives who try to solve a series of
brute murders. Detective Summerset is retiring in seven days, the seven
days relate to the title of the film and the seven murders committed.
Mills, the young detective, is desperately willing to do a case on his
own. Every murder committed relates to one of the deathly sins. When
the two detectives discover after the second murder they are dealing
with the seven deathly sins they know there are some more horrible
murders about to happen. Summerset and Mills try and do their best to
catch this guy, but are they able to stop him in time? We thought seven
is a very good film and enjoyed watching it even more than once. The
film is really catching and moving. While watching the film you have
the feeling you are really in it and everything in the film is really
happening around you, you can feel the terror and fear of the
characters. Unlike other films you can relate seven to reality, without
knowing everyone sometimes feels or acts like the deathly sins, what if
you would be murdered if you did again...? Firstly, what makes this movie brilliant is that the acting is very
convincing in Se7en. The character of William Somerset is brilliantly
played by Morgan Freeman. His facial expressions, the way he talks and
even his body language makes us believe in the character of William
Somerset and he develops throughout the film. The connection between
him and Brad Pitt is great and also shows us what a great actor Brad
Pitt actually is. David Mills is the young gun in the movie, he is
eager to learn and Pitt sells this really well. The two completely
different detectives develop their 'bromance' throughout the film and
you develop a form of sympathy towards the two. Another great acting
performance is from Gwyneth Paltrow, who plays Mils' wife. The young
actress has to make David Mills feel comfortable in his new surrounding
and she tries to do that, although she herself is very insecure.
Paltrow might be one of the most important characters in the whole
story.Secondly, the editing plays an important role in the movie. On the DVD
version of the movie they show how and why they have sometimes edited
the light and shots. When a scene with a negative mood is filmed, they
edit the light in such a way that it is very dark at the set. When a
scene with a positive atmosphere is filmed the set has been edited much
lighter. The head-space of the actors has been chosen with care, e.g.
in a serious scene they want to show the whole face of Morgan Freeman
to show how serious he is and they also do this in the opposite way to
create suspense. The use of the reverse shot is used quite often in
this kind of movie, especially when there are interrogations. Se7en is
not an exception, this technique also creates suspense, and you can
clearly see the intentions of the one who talks. The average shot
length in this movie is different per shot and this makes you think
about it. The director has done this sometimes to create suspense,
sometimes to make things clearer for the viewer. The use of parallel
editing is not used that often in this movie, but when it is used, it
is very effective and sometimes it shows a surprise.Thirdly, the use of camera-work is from big importance in the movie.
The director sometimes does not show things to manipulate us into
thinking nothing is there. The use of reverse shot has been discussed
in the paragraph above and this is vital in the movie to show the
emotions from the characters during conversations. The way we see the
corpses for the first time in this movie is also very well done. The
camera is moving very slowly and you will see the grossest thing first.
This creates a form of disgust and sometimes leave you breathless. The
close-ups are mainly to show that the characters are worried and you
can see the desperate look in their eyes. The movement of the camera
when the detectives are chasing someone makes you feel part of the
action and is therefore used effectively. The angle of the camera is
sometimes used to make one of the characters look heroic (low angle) or
to make a character look weak and vulnerable. The low angle technique
is effectively used when the detectives chase the serial killer and it
stocks your breath at that point.We think this film was really well thought of and very well casted.
Everything said in the film really makes you believe the serial killer
could stand right behind you. The camera-work is very well done and the
music well-chosen. The suspense keeps up throughout the entire film and
at the end of the film we were breathless. We think this was a very
good movie, and although is was made almost twenty years ago, the
special effects are used effectively and the actors are believable. We
really recommend watching this film!

******
11 June 2012
10
"Se7en" is one of these cinematic rarities that elevate themselves to
unsuspected levels of depth after each viewing, in the greatest
tradition of film noir and detective mysteries. Like "Chinatown", it
reinvented the noir genre with its own particular atmosphere, both were
and are still atypical for their time, and both end with a case solved,
yet a puzzling conclusion."Se7en" is less about the series of crimes committed than the two men
who lead the investigation, and the way their relationship evolves and
highlights their respective approach to life, to death, to the world
they live in, with an implicitness that respects our intelligence
enough so we can respect the film in return. This intelligence (or
subtlety) is not immediately palpable, and the opening scene can
mislead some viewers by falsely establishing the sort of odd couple
we'd expect in a cop team: the wise veteran and the hot-headed
youngster. Of course, you can trust David Fincher's directing and the
cleverness of the script because there's much more to say about Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt in these two roles, among the best of their
careers.Morgan Freeman is Sommerset, a cop in his last week before retirement
but not THE typical cop about to retire, (as a matter of fact, nothing
is typical in "Se7en"), he's a law enforcer who never fired in 34 years
of service and never got shot either, quite an achievement for someone
who doesn't work in the most secure neighborhood. Sommerset incarnates
the typical noir protagonist, whose optimism was eroded by years and
years of facing and fighting the most sordid crimes. Although he's not
the most likely to have faith in humanity, he's not cynical because he
still respects his job. However, he's lucid about one thing, as long as
there will be men, there will be rapists, killers, and criminals of the
worst species. Sommerset is lucid and competent, he's like a spotlight
of hope in a gloomy darkness, and that's enough to gain our respect,
he's calm even when facing the most horrific and gruesome crimes, like
the poor obese man forced to eat to death.This opening crime is spectacular and graphic, but Fincher restrains
himself because the horror is sometimes more efficient when it's
suggested. The horrific aspect of the first crime is also distracted by
the first interactions with Mills, Brad Pitt, as the replacing
Detective. Mills is not a rookie, he's got his share of thrills and he
knows his business. The problem is his temper: too cocky, too
hot-headed, too sure of himself, he can't stand Sommerset's patronizing
attitude. The progress of the investigation depends on the partnership
between Mills and Sommerset, so they do their best to accommodate each
other but it's only when Sommerset is invited to dinner by Mills' wife
Tracy, that the ice is broken. Tracy here is essential, and not just as
a simple plot device, she's a sweet and caring housewife, beautifully
played by Gwyneth Paltrow. Tracy loves her husband and provides the
extra level of depth needed to appreciate Mills' character who's more
one-dimensional in contrast with Sommerset.Tracy is the emotional connection between the viewers and Mills, and
consequently between Mills and Sommerset, she's the heart of the film,
and plays like an efficient counterpart to the gloomy atmosphere we're
plunged in since the very start, it's no wonder that she 'hates the
place', she embodies hope, family, marriage, loyalty, the best in
humanity. And that's the most brilliant aspect of "Se7en", especially
from a 29-year old director: David Fincher, with a remarkable
craftsmanship, establishes all the elements of the puzzle in the first
half-hour, setting the atmosphere: a rainy, dark and totally
unappealing little town. It's a hellish, nightmarish world where we're
plunged, where only feeble spotlights can penetrate a nightmarish
darkness, it's one of these places, you're afraid to walk like in a
dark room where you can accidentally put your foot on a sleeping
cockroach. Talk about a hostile atmosphere.But this atmosphere is perfect because it fits the nature of the crimes
committed, and creates the disturbing urge to establish a peaceful
relationship between Mills and Sommerset, which coincides with the
discovery of the first two murder's links: a fat man is killed by
eating, a successful lawyer forced to trade parts of his body to
(temporarily) spare his live, two words written in various parts:
Gluttony, Greed  an obvious 'to be continued' message to the cops. So,
everything leads to the conclusion that the crimes are related to the
seven deadly sins, and this time, it's not a killer who kills, but, as
states Sommerset: a killer who preaches. But Mills calls a spade a
spade, and by labeling the unknown man as 'demented' and 'crazy', he
lamentably clouds his judgment while Sommerset is more rational and
tries to think like the killer. Mills is all about emotional reactions,
Sommerset thinks before he acts, impulses and reason, interestingly,
it's the former who believes in love and family, as if 'passion' could
work like a double-edged sword.The atypical nature of the crimes and their author elevate the film,
Sommerset goes to library to try to find out hints in Saint-Augustin's
books, Dante's Inferno and other medieval and metaphysical classics.
Though "Se7en" doesn't necessarily go deeper in the subject but it
touched them enough to carry a sort of pedagogical value. We might not
read all these books after, but I'm sure many of us, would question
their approach to some crucial religious notions like faith,
forgiveness, innocence and passion. On that level, the film is not just
a cat-and-mouse thriller; it's also a descent into the most hellish
aspects of humanity, incarnated by the villain's face, what's more with
a perfect conclusion, leaving us with a truly awkward and uncomfortable
sensation, free enough to see the half-full or half-empty glass.Again, "Se7en" is a film that respects the viewer's intelligence.

******
20 April 2012
10
David Fincher is one of Hollywood's most popular directors, but it's
the film Seven that got him his start. This is one of my all-time
favorite movie, because it features one of the best casts ever put
together, and one of the best endings you will ever see. This dark and
gritty crime thriller follows the investigation into a serial killer,
who kills his victims based on the seven deadly sins. It is the type of
movie that can never be remade or out done, a once in a lifetime film
that will shock and thrill audience for decades to come. It's on many
top ten lists, including mine, and you will be hard pressed to find a
better film. From beginning to end this film is a winner and it is
definitely one that should be in your queue.

******
14 November 2009
8
Thrillers are either a hit or a miss. They can be awesome while many
can be awful. Seven is in the Very awesome category. Basing the film
around the seven deadly sins is an concept that everyone can relate
too. We have all sinned meaning we can be put ourselves in the shoes of
the victims ( not all victims mind you ) . When you imagine a film in
which it always cloudy and overcast with rain pouring down 24/7 , you
would think it going to depress you . Truth is , you don't actually
notice the weather , but instead take huge interest on what happening
in the homes of the city.I'm not an huge fan of Brad Pitt but it seems that when he teams up
with Fincher , he always puts on an good performance. Then there's
Morgan Freeman, which is fairness, is playing Morgan Freeman. He fun to
watch but you know what type of performance he going to act out. Both
are very good but the one who steals it is Kevin Spacey. He may be in
it for 20 minutes, but his role is extremely memorable. His character
is well made and maybe deserves a bit more screen time . The film is
very well made and an joy to watch. It keeps you awake and leaves you
to wonder about the next deadly sin. When watching it, you can clearly
see that Seven was an influence towards Leigh Whannell and James Wan
and there SAW film. Everything about SEVEN was great, the concept, the
acting, the finale. I highly recommend this film.

******
21 May 2008
10
Thinking back, I do believe this was my first 18 certificate film I
watched at the pictures and it left a real impression. It's always been
a favourite even though for some inexplicable reason I have only seen
it just the once.So it was with some trepidation that I bought the 2-disc DVD on ebay
recently and decided to watch it the night before last. I wondered if
knowing the dramatic outcome already would spoil the viewing pleasure
of what goes before.....It didn't.I wasn't wrong as a 15 year old in my assumptions that it was the best
thriller I'd ever seen and while I've seen some great films over the
last 13 years I'm pleased to say that this one is right up there with
the best of them. It's also weird how I seemed to remember every single
detail from every scene, even with my notoriously dodgy memory.I just can't fault this flawless film, Fincher was on top of his game
here and it's definitely my favourite of his and I am a fan of Fight
Club

******
24 February 2008
10
It really was. I saw this movie in a Five Below store. There were about
10 copies of the normal version, and abut 2 of the special edition ones
that look like notebooks. I went on a limb and bought the special
edition for $5. I had no idea what this movie was like nor what it was
about. But I am so glad I took the chance and bought it. This movie
turned out to be a personal favorite. Morgan Freeman was excellent, not
just because he's a great actor, but because in this movie he was
different than the "optimistic, nature-loving" characters he usually
plays. In this movie he plays the close-to-retirement Detective William
Somerset, who dislikes the world and what it has become. Brad Pitt gave
a great performance as the loud-mouthed, over-jumpy Detective David
Mills. Usually I don't like Brad Pitt and I think hes obnoxious and a
lousy actor, but in this movie I'll make an exception. He was obnoxious
in some ways in this movie, but it fit his character perfectly. Gwyneth
Paltrow gave a decent performance as the stressed Tracy Mills. R. Lee
Ermey was great as the Police Captain, I always enjoy his performances
no matter what the circumstances. Even the bad guy (Will not give the
actor's name to prevent spoilers) was Grade A in his part. The weather
was rainy for most of the movie, and scenes were always lighted in
small doses, meaning it was dark and gloomy for most of the film. THis
really set the tone. I recommend this movie to fans of crime, thriller
movies. 10/10

******
14 February 2008
9
Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is about to retire. He
is teamed up with a young new detective David Mills (Brad Pitt).
Together they try to find a serial killer who uses the seven deadly
sins as his M.O. Meanwhile Mills' wife Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow) fears
for her husband's life and is very depressed.Dark and depressing but just fascinating. Director David Fincher shots
the entire film in dim light and shoves the victims mutilated bodies in
our face. The grimness of the tone wears you down but that's
appropriate considering the subject matter. No humor either. It all
leads to a truly harrowing ending. There was supposed to be a happy
ending but they (wisely) chose not to do it. Freeman and Pitt work very
well together and both give excellent performances. I even thought
Paltrow (who I hate) was good! Kevin Spacey is very good too in a small
role.If you have trouble with blood, gore and disturbing subject matter stay
far away from this movie. But if you can handle that, watch this one.
It's depressing and unpleasant but riveting.

******
14 January 2008
10
"Se7en" is unique because of the extraordinary sympathy it manages to
foster for its two main characters; it's unique because of its bleak,
hopeless environment that serves as a symptom of civilization's general
decline. It's strengthened by its brilliant performances capturing
mostly decent people struggling to survive in the sewer without
becoming tainted by it. The fictional John Doe would most likely agree
with all these theoretical snapshots of despair - the difference comes
in his psychopathic desire to come up with a plan that he thinks will
solve it.Few forms of popular entertainment manage to afford the villain his say
whilst still maintaining a sensible distance from his horrific acts.
What I like best is the film's depressing contention that there isn't
as much distinction as we think between the good guys and the bad guys.
We're all affected by the distasteful aspects of society, but do we
just hope that our own positive contributions will be enough to offset
them - or in extreme situations, when we stare into the abyss, will the
abyss stare back at us? Some may well be upset that the killer's justification contains
reasoned objections. It is really only by resorting to crime that he
reveals himself as a madman. Rather than be outraged, though, I prefer
to celebrate good writing that allows us to see hidden facets of an
issue, however unpalatable the resultant consequences of such a
viewpoint may turn out to be.

******
30 November 2007
9
What is the most simple way to present the Human's dark side? The
answer is by sins: Sins that from the Fifth Century announce Man's most
awful deviations from God.This movie isn't catholic yet, nor does it have an approach: it's
impressively dark and violently grim. From the first start, the
characters are presented surrounded by a whispering, sad rain. The mood
is also set with dampened colors and grayish tones. Nobody ever smiles
in the film, they laugh for few seconds when united in a dinner. But
throughout the story, Detective Mills (Pitt) and Detective Somerset
(Freeman) will set up on a case that is horrendous and enigmatic: a
serial killer roams the city with the Capital Sins as basis to create
his assassinations. He preaches, according to Somerset. Mills isn't
accustomed to the following Odyssey, he is yet not aware of the fatal
obscurity of the Human Mind. Somerset is about to retire, and he knows
what he deals with his job, Morgan Freeman with his tired eyes show you
everything the character has seen among his trail.As the play is opened; the killer behind the murders shows to be
analytical and intelligent and he isn't afraid of people chasing him:
he just introduces him to his ultimate "work". He plays with them. He
presents a puzzle for them to solve as he is in total control. Kevin
Spacey will surprise everyone with his psychotic demeanor and his empty
gestures, showing spiritual deprivation."Se7en" is likely not for everyone. It is intended to expose the Dark,
Twisted side of mankind, engulfed by a series of morbidly well thought
murders. Actings are stupendous, all variating from a negative panoply:
depicting Sadness, Anger, Worry superbly. Nothing is cheerful, nothing
is lightning and warming. The movie shows you perfectly what man is all
about on their obscure range. It is shattering, it is demanding. But it
is one of the most excellent experiences on nowadays cinema.

******
12 November 2007
10
You really can't say enough about Se7en. It may have lacked critical
acclaim (how this wasn't at least nominated for Best Director and Best
Original Screenplay is beyond me), but this film is easily in the top
10 films of the 1990's, and one could argue that it is the best. Andrew
Walker pens a marvelous script that is brilliantly realized by David
Fincher, along with the help of 3 of the greatest actors of their
generations.David Mills (Brad Pitt) is a young up and coming detective who's just
been transferred. His partner is William Somerset (Morgan Freeman),
who's on the verge of retirement. Different though they may be, they
must track a serial killer who is choosing his victims according to the
seven deadly sins (gluttony, sloth, greed, lust, pride, envy, and
wrath).What makes Se7en so excellent in my mind is how incredibly real it is.
There's the gritty feel to the film, and Fincher uses great shots and
locations to effectively pass on his intentions to us. The film is one
of the most suspenseful I've ever seen, and that is also attributed to
Fincher, not to mention a wonderful musical score. Andrew Walker's
script is fantastic. Easily one of the best of all time. It's such a
simple concept, but the creation of the characters and the depth and
development of each one is one truly remarkable quality of the script.
The best quality of course, is the unpredictable, unorthodox, and scary
ending that will make your stomach sink like a weight. The
cinematography and editing are brilliant as the film is fluid and
seamless. Technically, this film is perfect.The acting...well, anyone who's ever said Brad Pitt is for show
obviously hasn't seen this or Fight Club. He's wonderful as the
motivated, yet rash and sarcastic David Mills. It's a great character
arc, and Pitt plays the complex character with heart and ease. Morgan
Freeman...what can you say? He's Morgan Freeman, so he's excellent.
Once again, a well written character that the actor takes and makes his
own. Freeman is magnificent again.Of course, our 2 detectives are great, but the true stand out of the
film is the actor who plays the killer, whose inclusion in the film was
kept secret until the day of release. Don't worry, I haven't spoiled
anything. He gives a magnificent, yet haunting and disturbing
performance that will stick with you for day after day. It is one of
the best villainous performances of all time. The final confrontation
is spectacular because of him.All in all, Se7en is a must see if you are a movie fan. It's one of the
best films I've ever seen, and you'd be a fool to miss this classic. As
terrifying as it is suspenseful, Se7en is a thriller that will stick
with you, an experience you'll never forget. I cannot recommend this
movie more.10/10 --spy

******
19 October 2007
10
This film has many indelible moments, an amazing cast: Morgan Freeman
as Detective Somerset is impressive and real. The Charlie Parker
soundtrack with the blues sung by Billie Holiday "I Cover the
Waterfront" captures the dark mood and underlying violence which exists
in the city. Being from New York, the street scenes at night are 100%
accurate, executives, harried workers, hookers and dealers all
intermingle in a pastiche of chaos.We see the early scene where Freeman first meets novice detective David
Mills (well portrayed by Brad Pitt) and he asks him what NYC homicide
is like, and won't agent Somerset regret retiring? Freeman answers
tiredly ..."I am moving....anyplace...far away from here"...Sloth, Greed, Lust, Pride, Envy, Gluttony, the seven deadly sins as
proclaimed since Medieval era. Each murder is precisely carried out.
John Doe is creating his masterpiece, an artwork of perfect murder.
Kevin Spacey is superb as John Doe. His presence and diction are
cutting and menacing. I would love to see him in more of these roles.
The quote from Morgan Freeman at the end of it all resounds true: it is
the quote from Hemingway. The theme is "ask not for whom the bell
tolls, it tolls for thee"....Everyone is affected by violence. Best
thriller and suspense, other than Hitchcock. Kudos to David Fincher and
the cast The screenplay is amazing, I have bought that as well as the
DVD. Highly recommended. 10/10.

******
8 September 2007
8
This movie is a cross between Silence of the lambs and Bone collector.
There are some very clever investigation scenes and clever writing and
set creation.This movie was a showcase for Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman. This
movie had one of Morgan Freeman's best roles where he plays a educated,
intelligent and experienced detective. Brad Pitt has a role but is not
as impressive.This movie certainly had a new approach to police / horror movies. This
movie and Silence of the lambs brought a whole new level of gore and
horror to mystery movies. This is not a kid friendly movie and does not
have a happy ending.

******
20 July 2007
8
I know. All of the previous comments told you all. But I want to say
something of my own.This great thriller will live longer indeed. For a lot of reasons. The
one I want to talk about is the strong focusing on the characterization
firstly in this script. Because this is something really rare in any of
the American thrillers nowadays.Here you have 2 points of view, come from 2 different generations, or
simply 2 kinds of human beings.The first is (David Mills / Brad Pitt) who is so rash, tense, running
mostly after his sensations and always relies on the photos, the shape
of things. But despite his true zeal, courage, and idealism he is so
unwise and very impetuous who can easily hurt or lose himself. He is
too weak to wait justice, so he goes and gets it by his hand because he
is a slave for his excitability.. his emotionality.The other one (William Somerset / Morgan Freeman) is an earlier
generation who has all the goodness and rationality. He is discreet and
cold proficient expert, who relies on the books. This one is not
perfect either ! He is too feeble to stand love or its pain,
responsibilities, or loss. So there is no joyful thing about his life
nor lasting thing in his life ! Both of them make together one heck of a perfect unit; so they succeed
in pursuit the killer. But HEY, it's not (Lethal Weapon). So you'll
have them both at variance, too contradictory, and the only clear
medial between them is the first's wife. Therefore, when she died, and
Brad Pitt killed the killer; the borderline already ended and there was
no medial anymore. So separation became the fate.They are two very irreconcilable ways, or persons, or feelings : the
love which kills the fear; so Brad Pitt lost his life. And the love
which is killed by fear; so Morgan Freeman is losing his own !! And as
for (John Doe / Kevin Spacey) the limit went to extremes; so he had his
fear, or his love, or maybe both, killed too long ago. He was despising
the extremism of the human lusts because he wasn't one. He lost his
humanity completely. Hence he became a killing machine, a loose
madness, or the extremism itself.Balance between your love and your fear or you'll be the killer and the
victim ! That's one premise which will make this film live for so many
upcoming generations.

******
11 March 2007
9
The serial killer movie is one of the (if not the one) concise genres
of the 1990s. David Fincher started his feature film career in the 90s
with "Alien 3", a good but not great sequel to the "Alien"-series. But
this film already revealed his sensitive instinct for threatening
scenarios. With "Se7en" he made one of the best thrillers of all time,
an archetypal film for the word 'genre-defining'. So many films copied
the style of it in the following years until now, that this style
ultimately became nerve-racking for me in every new film. This is the
one problem I felt while re-watching it. New audiences may not even be
able to really understand what made this movie so great when it first
came out. But its qualities are still visible today. The character of
John Doe is a masterpiece of evil man-characterization. Kevin Spacey
owns the screen his whole screen time, but I also like the
characterizations of young hopeful cop and old cop, who has lost his
faith in the good of life. As I said: One of the best thrillers of all
time.

******
23 November 2006
10
This picture takes some considerable constitution to watch, to endure.Se7en is not a nice film.The sets and locations are dark, gritty, grimy, nasty and bleak. There
are no bright hues, nothing flashy or rosy to welcome the viewer.What grabs us first(perhaps) are the very real homes of Det. Mills and
Det. Sommerset. There are sound effects of the police sirens passing
by. There are the muffled sounds of neighbours through the walls. There
is the ticking of various clocks.This looks a lot like 'real' life.It's quite hard for me to put a lot of this into words. The
investigation, after the subsequent finding of the first victim takes
Mills and Sommerset, and the film viewer into a dark, seedy world where
the crimes performed by the 'killer' are inspired by the seven deadly
sins. It's important, I feel to view se7en from time to time, simply to
make us feel better about our own life. The score and the sound effects
fit the dirty, nasty unforgiving feel of the film. You arn't sure if
it's John Doe that is the enemy or the world outside. I'm sure as I
type in the safety of my own home somebody somewhere is committing an
unspeakable crime. Maybe they will be caught. Maybe they won't.The acting very good from the main characters, and solid from the
lessors. The interesting part of me is looking at how Mills and
Sommerset work as a team, being of an entirely different nature.
Sommerset is calm, collected, intellectual, elloquent, subtle and wise.
Sommerset is like a sniffer dog released from the pound after a long
and tedious stay. Grumpy, intolerant, verbally unrefined, impatient,
yet with a good heart.All of the crimes shown strike cords within us. Some more horrific than
others; all thought provoking and psychologically challenging. Just how
*do* you continue to eat, completely full and unable to swallow another
mouthfull . .only there is a gun to your head and the trigger will end
your life it you stop .. It's hard to recommend this one to anyone. Film fans i.e those who
appreciate a well made movie will be on the edge or their seat come the
building chase. Others will look on in partial disgust, partial
intrigue as the camera shows the horrific detail of John Doe's
methodical skills.What un-nerves me, is to think that out there there is a John Doe out
here. He's not count Dracula, he's not Jack the ripper. He is a normal
man, perhaps enjoying a simple life. We might see him in the food
market or the pharmacy. We might see him and acknowledge him, or we
might not. That individual has a darker plan in his mind that you or I
or any *good* people could conceive of, and we won't know until
something happens. There are no apologies and no compromises. This is a brilliant, bleak,
horrific and psychologically damaging look at the darker side of human
nature. Highly recommended for those of a mature mindset.

******
30 September 2006
8
After the abysmal failure of Alien 3, David Fincher held his breath for
three years and made a new start with Se7en. His signature style of
direction is all over it. Se7en is filthier than a dead stray dog at
the bottom of a New Jersey toxic waste dump. It looks so miserable that
people nailed to crosses seem happier.The plot explores the extreme pitch-black side of the human psyche and
was entirely the creation of one writer. Andrew Kevin Walker, a former
Tower Records employee, conceived, in hell, a heinous story of a serial
killer who offs his victims in the style of the Seven Deadly Sins. What
was he smoking when he came up with that idea? Brad Pitt plays David
Mills, an arrogant, over-confident, semi-experienced detective who is
way ahead of himself. He uproots from a decent precinct, dragging his
suffering wife (Gwyneth Paltrow) with him, to transfer to the worst in
town - an unnamed, rainier-than-Glasgow Los Angeles - for no other
reason than "to make a difference". Good luck.Morgan Freeman is William Somerset, the most jaded and world-weary cop
on the force. He only has a few days with Mills before retiring to a
simple life in the country. Mills could learn a lot from him, and if he
had any sense, he would. Sadly, this does not happen.In Fight Club, Fincher exposed the rotten underbelly of a free society,
the seedy flipside of American culture that most people pretend doesn't
exist. Somerset says the only way to deal with a world this bad is to
be apathetic, the polar opposite to Mill's belief that he can make the
world a better place.Few scripts make for good reading, but Andrew Kevin Walker's writing is
one of the film's many strengths. He explored dark, character-driven
horror/drama in shockers such as Brainscan and 8mm, but this is the
meanest. The irony of each victims' death is made entirely justified by
the killer's logic behind the madness. Of course, he does not believe
he is insane. Just the world he lives in. Haven't you ever felt like
that? It is important for such movies to have an atmosphere and Se7en
is so rank that you can smell it. Pitt and Freeman deliver great
performances, although Pitt should learn to breathe through his nose
and not have constantly pursed lips. It becomes quite annoying.Se7en is definitely the film that kick-started Fincher's career. Had he
made The Game right after Alien 3, there would have been no Fight Club,
Panic Room, or Social Network.For that tiny minority who knows nothing of the film it's high time you
checked it out. Even if you don't enjoy, you cannot deny its power and
effect.

******
15 February 2004
7
Two cops - one young, one old - chase a serial killer that is leaving a
paper trail.This is actually one of the best films that I have seen that I have
only wanted to watch one. The reason being that while it has an
interesting plot, plenty of action and a great twist it also has a
horrible aftertaste. Like spending too long trying to clear a blocked
drain. Hollywood has, for far too long, glamorised crime and the chasing
criminal so it is surprising to see a film maker going the other way.
This is a dark, decrepit and cold world where everything is falling
apart and unkept. This seems a deliberate policy move that features in
many of David Fincher's films. Interesting - in that is different - but
strangely alienating and depressing - and these are emotions I don't
want to wish upon myself.The serial killer and the criminal that leaves clues are nothing new,
but the way the plot develops is. If you know the twist the movie will
be cut in half and thank god I saw it without knowing the pay-off-
although I knew there was going to be one. This is a movie after all.Brad Pitt never convinces as a professional of any type. Here he seems
to have become a cop overnight and without much training. Morgan
Freeman does his usual quiet-but-logical act that has bought him fame
so late in life. He is nearing retirement (in the film), but I thought
all cops were about to retire in movies - I took that as read!This is very involving stuff and we are drawn to grandstand finish that
we will remember forever - but what is Se7en in longterm reflection? A
horrible world in which horrible people carry out horrible acts for
reasons of self-gratification?Serial killers have existed since the dawn of time, but America is home
to half of the world's population of them. Why is this? Maybe it is the
last chance to make a mark on a society where being in the media and
being in the spotlight are prized? When you have killed someone you are
interesting, when you haven't you are not. Simple.

******
11 August 2003
8

Seven is by now more or less a modern classic. The movie is so dark that
I
almost felt depressed when I left the cinema. I disagree with another
reviewer who calls it "One of the most overrated "thrillers" of all
time".
The only point this reviewer has is that the camerawork is great. Good
acting, good story, great camerawork. Bottom line; If you are looking for
suspense you will get it here. You might even get a depression, but
that's
for free.One of David Fincher's (director) best films. Fincher is very talented
but
probably also very depressed considering the movies he has made. Except
for
Panic room (there is a turkey for you) he has made a couple of very
interesting and unusual movies (Fight club, The game).Thriller rating: 8/10
Movie rating 7/10

******
2 December 2002
8

This has to be, without a doubt, one of the most beautiful movies I have
yet
to see.And I'm talking on it's artistic value. Not on it's less-than-delightful
subject matter. Every detail that went into the making of it, from the
photography, to the meticulous care with which the props were concocted
is
incredible. So many pieces, in such an intricate puzzle, that all come
together to form a multi-faceted, and beautiful film.The acting is well-done. While not amazing, I'd have to say each one of
the
characters were perfectly formed, and played off of each other in exact
harmony.The storyline itself is somewhat classic in its cop-thriller genre. But
as
you take a closer look, it has been magnified not only to account for the
90's audiences bloodlust, but to step past it, making it seem grotesque
to
ever want to witness such a thing.It doesn't hold back in showing true ugliness. Which is something that
Hollywood often neglects.

******
17 October 2000
10
A while back I thought after seeing Seven that this is a film gets in
the crowd of the macabre disturbing films including Texas Chainsaw
Massacre, Clockwork Orange, Dawn of the Dead, etc. It does and then it
doesn't as well. It has that kind of horrific core on display of
humanities ills alongside the violent nature. But it is also a
Hollywood thriller, with big stars, and on that level it's just as
affecting and successful. It's almost like a crossover film by having
this mystery-investigation side of the story, led by Putt and Freeman,
while the investigation itself making it pretty clear its
no-holds-barred moments. Fincher's work as a director here is absolute
in making style serve the story.It does this and more by making grissly images of cruelness and dark
vibes that would make Nosferatu cringe (slightly). Story follows aging
detective (Freeman in one of his better roles) and new detective (Pitt
does OK here, too) who hunt down a killer who is doing it in according
to the 7 deadly sins. Nailbitting all the way to the end, even when we
find out the John Doe (and if your on this site, you know Kevin Spacey
plays one of the most clever villains in recent thriller history).
Entertaining, and with an everlasting appeal that has spawned on a
series of lesser films (i.e. Saw), and still holding up just as strong
ten+ years later.

******
30 May 2000
10

Se7en is a movie that is 100% suspense, style, and substance. The movie
rises above a made-for-video serial-thriller, and joins Fritz Langs 'M',
Johnathan Demme's Silence of the Lambs, and Michael Mahn's Manhunter as the
best in its genre.It is downright depressing, and downbeat, without a hint of humour. It is
also compelling and intriguing at the same time.The best thing about Se7en is the direction. David Fincher proves he isn't
some sadistic sicko, by heavily implying the murders and only showing the
aftermaths.Freeman gives a decent performance as Sommerset, and Pitt gives his usually
wisecracks as Mills, but Kevin Spacey steals the show in a small, but
important part.   It has no horror movie cliches, making it an intelligent movie, too, but it
has one scene that will make you jump right out of your
seat.Just when you think it is time for a chase with the killer, and the good guy
shooting him for a pleasant, satisfying way to end the day, Fincher takes
you for one last turn, which will leave you feeling emotionally
drained.PLOT: 8 DIRECTION: 9 SCRIPT: 9 ACTING: 8 CINEMATOGRAPHY:
8OVERALL: 8.5


******
14 February 1999
8

Freeman & Pitt have great chemistry. Very dark atmosphere in this film. Kevin
Spacey is creepy in a small role. Paltrow fits in nicely.Rating:****1/2 (out of five) 

******
14 March 2013
10
This movie effected me emotionally more than any other movie I can
think of. (Except maybe for One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, for
different reasons.) Basically, it's about a young cop and an old cop
who's about to retire, who investigate a serial killer whose murders
are based off of the seven deadly sins.What makes it so horrifying is that you see the aftermath. You hear the
investigations, as they detail what happened. Match that with the
images of the dead bodies, and you've got yourself a profoundly
effective mental image. Good luck sleeping tonight! Aside from the
disturbing elements, the movie is still a good movie. Pitt and Freeman
give great performances as usual, and it helps that their characters
are likable. Pitt's character is an arrogant ass. Or is he? As you find
out by the way he acts outside the police station, he seems likes a fun
guy to be around. And as the movie goes along, you see how his job and
the disgusting murders that he has to get knee deep into affect him as
a person. Freeman's character is pretty much the straight-up good guy,
and you could argue that he's the typical "retiring black cop" that was
made more common by Glover's character in the Lethal Weapon series.The story is very engaging, as the investigations become more intense,
and the more the protagonists get wrapped up in the case. So much so,
that the climax (which begins with possibly the most heart-pounding
chase scene I've ever seen) becomes one of the most jaw-dropping and
engrossing pieces of film I've ever witnessed.The dialogue is good, but with only a couple memorable lines (which I
won't say, because they either possibly spoil the movie, or aren't that
great unless you've actually seen the scene.) However, with that said,
the dialogue is used as a tool for sending a graphic mental image to
your head during the murder scenes. And that, is probably the best
words can do in a movie.Overall, if you can get over the shudder-inducing murder scenes that
I've only brought up about a thousand times up to this point,
definitely give this movie a go.

******
3 March 2011
5
Now don't get me wrong and don't know any sick nut jobs like john doe
is supposed to be but however - the film really just tries to prove how
cunning and self righteous spaceys character is rather than how sick
and scary which he would have to of been to do those things. The actual
explanations of what john doe has done by the investigators (at any
point in the film) or the written account of john doe's random thoughts
in the book that detective sommerset read aloud were more disturbing
than spaceys performance at the end of the film.Morgan freeman plays a reasonably believable part - brad pitt is pretty
cliché but he isn't an absolutely pivotal character so it doesn't bring
the movie down too far but spacy is a real disappointment his part was
pivotal - the film is building him up the whole movie as you don't get
to see him until near the end and if he would of pulled it off the rest
of the movie which was a bit slow would of been worth it.Yeah the whole idea of seven deadly sins was pretty much Hollywood
schmaltz but again that wasn't massively jarring to the entertain value
of the movie and could of been better overlooked if spacey made that
idea his own. If he had seemed totally detached from reality and didn't
explain half as much as he did to the mills character in the car; maybe
even played the 'seven sins idea' as a bit of a wind up to see if
people would swallow it - had he seemed more obscure and/or incoherent
at times and mixed it up with some head games and cognitive exchanges
it might of been more worthwhile.Bottom line i didn't believe he did those murders he seemed too sane
and plain. An unveiling of a monster it was not - and the line 'He
isn't the devil....he's just a man' - didn't excuse the performance

******
9 March 2010
8
I was totally taken with this film. It's not The Usual Suspects, but it
is really something. Unfortunately, I felt almost sick when I was
finished watching it. The madness of the murders and the general
philosophical sickness that carries it along put it out of reach for
some of us. I can't imagine the world portrayed here. Great cast. I
really thing Brad Pitt is excellent; and, of course, Morgan Freeman is
his usual complex self. Once again, however, in a relatively brief
appearance, Kevin Spacey steals every scene he's in. It's that
unflappable delivery of his. No matter what is said or done, he
anticipates it. The murders are hideous. The camera doesn't show the
most gory details (which I appreciated), but they are sold to us
through outside factors. I missed this the first time through and
wanted it to be part of my movie-going experience. I don't think I
could ever watch it again.

******
11 February 2008
10
This movie is such a 'blockbuster' that it is only movie I have ever
purchased on DVD. I do not purchase movies because they are a waste of
money to me, because I don't like to watch most movies more than once,
and because it is so easy to download movies to ones PC from different
websites for little money. But I purchased Se7en because this is the
one movie I can watch over again. Me purchasing a movie is the highest
assessment I can give. So watch Se7en for yourself; it is suspenseful,
a thriller, has a great cast of actors who all perform outstandingly,
and most important of all an ending no one could have guessed. I just
wish that other writers, directors, etc., could produce more movies of
this quality and genre.

******
2 December 2007
10
Long is the way, and hard, that out of hell leads up to light ... (John
Milton, Paradise Lost, Book II. Line 432) "Seven deadly sins, seven ways to die" is the tag-line for this intense
psychological thriller directed by David Fincher: ~ Detective Sergeant Mills (Brad Pitt) is set to replace Detective
Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman), a world-weary cop retiring after
years on the force. Somerset can see no end to the harrowing crimes he
has witnessed, the sickness that is the City. Dealing with murder,
rape, abuse, and poverty has become the Lieutenant's life and he now
hopes for some small shred of peace. Mills, on the other hand, is new
to the city; he is arrogant and brash, having little time for
Somerset's thoughtful and analytical techniques.As retirement beckons, so a new spate of killings begin. Like it or
not, Somerset is given the investigation by the Captain (R Lee Ermey)
while Mills is put on a different case. The murders are soon linked to
the same killer - a twisted genius who chooses his victims based on the
seven deadly sins in Dante Alighieri's 'The Divine Comedy' - and Mills
and Somerset are paired together once more.Despite their clash of personalities Mills and Somerset strike up a
good partnership, Somerset's introspectiveness and Mills's
self-confidence turning out to be a useful combination. Each one learns
a lot from the other; indeed, Mills's wife (Gwyneth Paltrow) thinks
Somerset is a good influence on the husband she is rapidly growing
concerned about.It soon becomes apparent that the 'sins' killer is playing a deadly
cat-and-mouse game with the detectives, enjoying watching them either
stumble or succeed at every turn in the case ... while he continues to
kill according to the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, envy,
wrath, pride, lust. They must stop him before he can finish his murder
spree and most probably disappear forever ~ Se7en is not only the most
accomplished film by David Fincher (Zodiac) but almost certainly - from
a writing and directing viewpoint - the best psychological thriller in
the history of film and television. There are none of the stereotypical
clichés found in countless thrillers of violence, no room for the
predictable, for the viewer is kept constantly in the dark until the
very end. And the climax is both ferocious and awe-striking ... for
once Hollywood kept the outcome a secret until the day of release, not
an easy thing to do.Whatever vision Andrew Kevin Walker had before he took his script to
screenwriter David Koepp (Secret Window) was ultimately realised once
in the hands of David Fincher. Fincher's dark and rain-driven sewer,
his city of sins, has yet to be matched on film. His choice of cast was
spot-on. Se7en is a true classic, crossing genres like crime, horror,
thriller and police procedural ... dark and moody, harrowing and
painful, Se7en will appeal to the darker side within us all.Co-stars John C McGinley as California (captain of SWAT team) Matthew J Lee-Williams, Review.

******
30 June 2005
9
Two cops chase a killer who uses the Seven Deadly Sins as a motive.Saw has a very similar story,but Seven has a *much* better
execution.The plot may sound sleazy and cliché,but Andrew Kevin
Walker's dark take on the materials is not:The core of John's plan is
very clever and Gothic,and you will become absorbed into the twists and
plot advancements.The murders are not only graphic,but highly inventive
as well,in a sick way,and very sadistic.The acting is top notch:I am a
fan of Morgan Freeman and he doesn't disappoint.Both him and co star
Brad Pitt do excellent and focused jobs.Kevin Spacy is also excellent
here.Director David Fincher and cinematographer Darius Khondji does an
AMAZING job at bringing the dark script to life:The movie is bathed in
darkness.There are some very well set up shots and the pacing is
consistent.Fincher gets the best from his actors,and never feels the
need to censor himself.The lead up to the conclusion is excellent,one
of the most suspenseful scenes in movie history,extremely nerve
wreaking.The end twist is just grotesque,yet the film ends on a subtle
note.Highly recommend to those who can stomach it.9/10

******
22 January 2005
7
Se7en is an undoubtful masterpiece concerning suspense, locations and
camera. The actors are also brilliant and the story is one of the most
thrilling and intelligent of our time. Really great: none of the
killings are shown and are left to the mind of the viewer. So, why
should someone like me who has just written so nicely about this movie
rate it with just se7en stars? It is because of its ending.
Surprisingly indeed, but... I think, a little too surprising. In the
ending this movie seems to lack in logic. The characters Pitt and
Freeman are playing make some progress in the story and they get to
know each other better and better. Freeman's role is the one of a very
intelligent cop who often has to calm down the hot-headed character
Pitt is playing. But in the last minutes of the movie - I cannot
imagine why - he doesn't calm him down and absolutely underestimates
the danger. It seems to me that this movie just wanted to have a
surprising, shocking ending (it really doesn't need to have!!!) and
spoiled it a little bit to me. But anyway, this is a brilliant movie
everyone should have watched. Once again, se7en out of ten!

******
4 September 2011
3
There are so many things wrong with this flick that I'm afraid I may
use all my alloted space just enumerating them. What intrigues me the
most, though, is the high ratings it gets here, which goes to show once
again that all what some people need is a few flashy tricks, some lame
thrills, random scares, and there you have them, jumping up & down
screaming "masterpiece"!.For starters, the plot is so thin it hardly provides for a 90 min.
flick. So, the need for padding was there. I can understand that but
they shouldn't have made it so plain and obvious as to get us right
into that just 5 min. into the movie. The tension building between both
cops at the beginning comes out of thin air, as there's no plot,
character, device justifying it, to the point that we are left asking
why Somerset is acting so grumpy--all retiring geezers I've met in my
life were rather happy campers, mind you. So, 35 min. go away
"exploring" this contrived character incompatibility between both, only
to see it magically disappear during an equally forced diner. But even
more incredible is that the just arrived in town Tracy would look for a
friend & confident--of all people--in the retiring partner of her
husband, a grumpy bachelor twice her age! Did she ever go to the mall;
did she ever say Hello to her female neighbors? True story: I was once
in a immersion course, where there were about 20 men & 10 women from
all over the world. After 1 week every woman knew everything about the
others--family, kids, etc, while after months I hardly knew what most
other guys did for a living. Point is, do the writers of this thing
know anything about women? Paltrow looks lost and confused in her
scenes with Freeman because she had been given the impossible task of
living up an absurd situation. Freeman himself realizes that, which
affects him too. And there goes the acting for both, out of the window.But the bad writing just doesn't stop there, it's all over the place.
Specially concerning Pitt's cop, who not only comes out as an
imbecile--sticking his nose into a bucket under the body of the dead
fat guy?--but also as a motor mouth who will keep spitting out
nonsense. But it gets even worse with Spacey. I loved his loser Lester
in AB but here he's completely unconvincing as a psycho. He looks,
acts, talks just too normal and his overall behavior doesn't make any
sense either. I'm not shrink but one thing I'm certain of is that nuts
are obsessive creatures. They got one craze and they won't let go. Now,
this guy is fixated upon punishing the impish, so he has dedicated his
life to it. But then, after having watching the marital bliss of the
Mills, he suddenly shifts gears and starts dreaming of picket fences,
of a nice house in the suburbs and of the proverbial little woman.
Sorry but things don't happen that way in real life. Obsessions have a
big momentum and at the point Doe is now, nothing could distracting
from his life mission. The idea of him being envious of cop Mills is
simply ludicrous. (BTW, Rorschach is a far better defined character in
Watchmen--as a deeply obsessed man, straddling the fine line into
madness--and you wouldn't imagine him envious of Dan & Laurie).Other flaws, a pacing unnecessary slow, with scenes that add nothing to
the action--like the banter in the Library for ex.--and an editing that
shouldn't make anyone proud, with random shots of GP, for ex., that are
there for no clear reason--except maybe to give us a clue about the
coming "twist", who knows. Some rave about the cinematography, but I
don't see much difference here with that of the standard Asian horror
flick--Ringu, The Eye, etc. One reviewer said that Se7en leaves you
nothing and I agree with that. I can pick randomly any CSI episode
(Peterson era) and I'm sure it will be better than this dog. 3/10.

******
27 March 2005
1
I finally saw this movie after seeing how highly regarded this was on
IMDb. I have to say I was extremely disappointed. I thought the plot
was interesting, but it quickly became see-through as the movie
continued. This is certainly not as good as people believe it to be,
and I found it to be dark and disturbing, and without any real
"mission" to speak of. Usually, a great movie is the kind of movie you
can view over and over again, and it consistently gets better with
subsequent viewings. However, this movie can hardly stand with those.
As I said before, it was fairly predictable from the start (I knew
about 45 minutes early that his wife would be dying at the end) and it
doesn't get any better every time you see it. For instance, check out
'Chinatown'; this is a legitimate film-noir thriller that does get
better with age; it features outstanding performances and a dense plot,
whereas this movie has a fairly methodical plot and some good but not
great acting. I just don't see the appeal that this movie holds with
people (similarly to Sixth Sense, which I figured out in about 25
minutes.) You may like it, but it just doesn't do it for me.

******
24 November 2015
10
Se7en is not only the best 90's movie but one of the best movies I have
ever seen, it captures the dark and gritty elements of crime and murder
but also introduced us to the smartest serial killer in cinematic
history!Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt were the perfect casting
choices to bring this intelligent screenplay to life, and Fincher did a
marvellous job at directing this masterpiece (I love Se7en even more
than I love Fight Club).It has the most thrilling twist that I have ever witnessed, the acting
in every scene is perfect (especially the end scene) and I still have
goosebumps from this movie to this day.Se7en is the King of thriller and suspense, and I insist you give this
movie a watch, it's ingenious and one of the best movies you will ever
see!Se7en: 10/10

******
20 November 2015
10
David Fincher has been one of most thoughtful directors in Hollywood
for many years, and his ingenious filmmaking all started in the mid-
1990s with this grim, but intelligently crafted psychological thriller.
This film follows David Mills (played by Brad Pitt), a newly
transferred police detective in an unnamed crime-ridden metropolitan
city, who is partner with an old veteran detective William Somerset
(played by Morgan Freeman) who is on the verge of retirement, to
investigate a string of gruesome murders all around the city. These
murders happen to correlate with the seven deadly sins which include:
gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, pride, envy, and wrath. Mills and
Somerset take in matters in their own hands to hunt down the sadistic
serial killer (played by an actor who I'm gonna keep a secret)
responsible for the grisly murders, only to be faced with a scarring
truth about his intentions.This David Fincher masterpiece is not a horror film, but it certainly
sits directly at the borderline of one. Complete with eerie visuals and
near non-stop suspense from start to finish, this film pulls audience
into an unflinchingly grim atmosphere that leaves shivers down their
spine and rarely lightens up. To add more to the dark tone, it rain in
nearly every scene taking place outside to give them a more somber
look. As the plot progresses, the audience are treated with nauseating
afterviews of the serial killer's murder. But instead of having the
camera linger over the gory details of the victims, we are giving heavy
implications of how they particularly occurred. These scenes do just
enough without the suspenseful music score to leave viewers at the edge
of their seats. Then there is the serial killer himself who is
portrayed as very sadistic, almost Lecter Hannibul-like, and creepy in
appearance. His way of outwitting the main characters are quite
shocking. The actor who plays him does an incredible job on his
portrayal. As the story continues on, it builds up to one of the most
haunting conclusions ever put to film, an ending that really pushes the
boundaries. Ultimately, it works pretty well.Se7en is one of the well-crafted and twisted thrillers I've ever seen
and one of the spine-chilling films Hollywood has to offer, thanks to
the incredible camera-work, brilliant direction by David Fincher and
fantastic script by Andrew Kevin Walker. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman
who play the main characters show amazing chemistry on screen together
and their performances work pretty well. While the film is really
great, it is definitely not recommended for the faint of heart.

******
17 August 2015
10
In one of the most excellent thrillers ever created, Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt can be seen. Morgan Freeman plays an old wizened detective on
his last week of duty before retirement. Alongside him comes Brad Pitt,
as a young detective new to the precinct, eager to take his place.
That's when the murders start to appear, starting with a fat man dead
face first in a plate of spaghetti. From there, the bodies start to
appear, with the theme of the Bible's Seven Deadly Sins. Each body is
killed by their sin, and the detectives have to race to find this John
Doe as he continues to tease them. This movie takes you on a ride, and
gives plenty of clues along the way, but you never seem to know more
than the protagonists do. The characters are written well, they develop
over the story, and no one ends where they started. Kevin Spacey as
John Doe was a brilliant casting choice, as he played the character
with such conviction that any viewer would believe the actor actually
believed in what his character did throughout the film. The team of
Brad Pitt's young gun and Morgan Freeman's wise old man played
excellently off of each other as well. A finely told narrative, this
thriller will keep you on the edge of your seat wondering what will
happen next. This is a must see.10/10

******
8 July 2015
10
In the mid-90s, director David Fincher read the screenplay for Se7en, a
mystery-thriller film and said that he found it to be a fascinating
idea. Little did he know, that the script copy he had been sent had the
original ending that New Line didn't want, so he had to fight to keep
it in the film. Either way, the film was released in September of 1995
and instantly had rave reviews, and managed to make even Roger Ebert
proclaim it as dark, twisted and a great movie. So, let's see if all of
these critics are whackjobs, or if this film truly is as good as they
say.Se7en follows two detectives - one set to retire by the end of the
week, and a rookie set to take over his position, as they slowly
realize that several seemingly unconnected murders are actually the
work of a serial killer basing his murders on the seven deadly sins.This film is one I had been fascinated by for a long time. Many people
referred to it as a basis for the dark and twisted films to come, such
as the Saw franchise, so I wanted to finally see why people were
constantly comparing the two. So, what did I think? Well, let's get
into it.The acting was phenomenal. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman both do
terrific jobs as the two detectives investigating this twisted case,
and both really play off of each other very well. One of the best
examples of this comes from the opening scene, where Pitt meets up with
Freeman and they have a chat. Quite intriguing. Kevin Spacey... I feel
like I shouldn't spoil who he is because of the plot, but believe me
when I say, he'll send shivers down your spine. Gwyneth Paltrow does a
stellar job as well as Pitt's wife, and manages to emote more than in
any other performance. Ha, I'm only joking. And R. Lee Ermey does a
good job as the police captain.The music in this film, by Howard Shore, of all people, was stellar.
One of the most effective scenes in the film, which is surprisingly the
opening credits, had a remixed version of a Nine Inch Nails song paired
with Shore's score, and it works very well. Hell, the score works very
well throughout the entire film. The lighting and just overall tone of
the film is very dark, which helps compliment the subject matter very
well. I just love some of the shots, like when they first come upon the
Gluttony crime scene and are using their flashlights all around, that
scene looks so dark and mysterious, you can't help but be intrigued.Of course, Fincher's direction is brilliant so we don't even need to
have a long discussion about that. The screenplay, as a whole, works
very well. It's very good at keeping us contained to these murders and
the people surrounding them and being affected by them. I can see why
Fincher really wanted to make this screenplay. The editing in this film
is definitely something to note, as scenes such as the opening credits
and the overlays of the days look very well done, and it's obviously
that either Fincher or the editor had very good ideas on how that was
supposed to work.Overall, Se7en is a very solid flick. It boasts some talented
performances, some great tone, music, direction and a solid screenplay
and some very bold, but fantastic, editing choices. If you haven't seen
this film, do yourself a favor and go see it because it's very dark,
and the twist ending will leave you reeling, I'm sure.10/10. Grade: A

******
21 May 2015
10
This was an awesome movie! Spacey should have won an Oscar he was
devilishly cruel and good! Even Brad Pitt had a stellar outing in this
as the young cop with something to prove, beautiful lady at home etc..
Morgan Freeman as the smart older and on the verge of retiring cop but
is pulled back in for this one last case.. is excellent. Its a shame
this didn't receive more Oscar attention. It really found its groove
later on I suppose as a classic. Not recommended as a family film has a
lot of violence as its a take on the 7 deadly sins. Overall this movie
was a 10 for me the cast the directing the story line was dynamite!
Well worth a watch a time or two!

******
15 May 2015
9
I watched on the recommendation. I am glad I knew as little as possible
about the movie before watching it. The team was great. I'm not an fan of Brad Pitt but always I like his
performance in Fincher's films. Then there's Morgan Freeman who is
playing Morgan Freeman. And Kevin Spacey was OK.Almost perfect among the films categorized in the group of thriller, it
can be compared to the "silence of the Lambs" because of its dark, noir
and almost gore plot. The film made me tense from beginning to the end."Se7en" is one of David Fincher's best films. This is why is 9 out of
10 for me.

******
24 March 2015
10
Se7en is a nerve-jangling thriller, hauntingly shot by visionary
director David Fincher, who crafts one of the most iconic films of all
time.Se7en tells the tale of a grisly serial killer who is twisted on
delivering a sermon against modern depravity. He murders his victims to
atone for the sins he deems them to have committed; his crimes echo the
seven deadly sins namely gluttony, greed, sloth, envy, pride, wrath and
lust. Tracking this gruesome killer (played with a quiet insanity that
makes your flesh crawl, by an actor par excellence  no spoilers here!)
is a cliché pair of cops. There's the jaded veteran Detective
Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman who brings great depth and dignity
to the part) who is in the last week of his employ with the police
department. Partnering him is a young, eager-to-kick-some-evil-butt cop
Detective Mills (Brad Pitt whose callowness works perfectly for his
character). After killing an overweight man by force-feeding him to
death in the name of gluttony and bleeding to death a lawyer for greed,
the anonymous killer is now turning his attention to the five remaining
deadly sins. As the two men investigate, the gulf between their
respective world-views begins to inform everything about how they
respond to the savagery of these crimes.It is impossible to deny the potency and artistry with which Fincher
executes the material. Although very little of each murder is shown,
the director expertly allows suggestion to lead the appalled viewer
towards the truly cataclysmic climax. Fincher's sepia-toned gloom
successfully lends the film the knock-out punch it intends to.
Purposely draining his landscapes of color, and setting all the tense
action against rain-washed streets and under-lit interiors, Fincher
evokes an atmosphere of nightmarish proportions as he unfolds a
gripping tale of urban horror. Se7en is riveting in a gut-twisting way. It plays out at an engaging
pace destined to entrance you with its abject horror. The film is as
dark and brutal as a film can be, without showing much actual violence.
Most of the stuff in the film is implied, but it's so damn disturbing
that you feel like you actually saw it. And that is the beauty of
Se7en!

******
12 March 2015
10
Wow, here is the thing, most movies that have been out for a long time
and I have been told that are great but have not got a chance to see
yet, well, most of the time they never live up to the hype. That is not
the case with Se7en. This is one amazing movie. The acting was stellar,
directing was spot on and the use of the city and rain added so much
atmosphere that it was almost another character in the film. I did see
the end coming even though I was hoping that I was wrong.(I think I
knew what was coming not because this movie was predictable, more so
that after this movie lots of movies and TV shows have stolen from it,
so it kind of easy to see where it was going, I am sure if I had seen
this when it was first out I would have been surprised) This is a five
star movie that I think will still be great 50 years from now. 5 Beards
Out Of 5 Check out my video review. http://youtu.be/WCVDBOziSrM

******
19 December 2014
8
Se7en is one of those films you watch in between long intervals. For
me, this was my third rewatch and my last. I don't think I have the
stomach for another. It is essentially a buddy cop flick, but the script touches on deeper
issues of the future of human society, sin, apathy, and predestination.
The Noir trappings are beautiful to behold, the constant rain, squalor,
grimy city that feels like every dystopian metropolis combined into
one. But it occasionally veers into fantasy with a plot that relies on
a few too many gimmicks to make it flawless. The villain is simply an
omnipotent being at times with almost magic powers. There are moments of genuine humanity that doesn't make it completely
hopeless, but the atmosphere is filled with so much despair and
nihilism that the grunge attitude of it does begin to wear as the clock
ticks by. And by the time the villain of the piece makes his grand
entry, I kept expecting him to appear with a leather mask on his face
and gloating evilly about eating a census taker's liver with fava beans
and a nice Chianti. Still, the dynamic between Freeman and Pitt is still enticing to watch,
and the story works as a parable or even sadistic fable at a
rudimentary level. But sometimes I wish the story hadn't been so
manipulative and fixed just so that it could punish these characters
and push them to insane lengths. I felt like character motivations and
development were being engaged at the behest of the plot progression,
so certain events begin to seem contrived just so it can reach the
shocking conclusion. I assume the writer was trying to teach a lesson,
albeit in a clumsy fashion. I would call it a minor 90s classic, and the dreamlike, twilight
zone-esque environment adds a nice surreal atmosphere. For those
willing to ignore plot conveniences and the dingy weather, this film
will take you along for a horrific trip into the darkest recesses of
what men are capable of.

******
2 May 2014
7
I liked this movie from the moment it started. To me, mixing religion
with anything makes 'anything' infinitely more creepy - and this film
started out just that way.I loved the premise of the movie and how each new crime is set up for
the viewer. Also that the movie is set up in a world where each day
seems grayer than the previous - and each crime more gruesome - it
really does a great job of grabbing your attention from the first
scene.Morgan Freeman does an excellent job of a weathered, yet wise,
detective - and then there is the Brad Pitt element. Ms. Paltrow does
fine work in this movie. And then there is Brad Pitt...I want to like Brad Pitt. Maybe it's just that I haven't seen the movie
yet where he does a great job and doesn't seem like he's trying to act
'too hard'. I have a hard time believing his character in this movie
(or any movie he's in for that matter). But, the other actors and the
script for this movie do a great job of carrying him along.Then there is the 'end' of the movie. I'm still annoyed by how this
movie ended. The last scene seems to be in direct contrast with the
imagination, set up, reveal, shock and get-you-by-the-short-hairs
script used in the previous 80 minutes of this movie.So...my 7 out of 10 basically means, for this movie - if it comes on -
I will most likely get sucked into watching it again. And then when all
the great scenes are over with and I've become weary of one person's
acting - I will find that the last 10 minutes are a good point to
realize, "I've been sitting down watching enough TV today - time to go
get something done. Like popcorn."

******
9 March 2014
7
Seven is an extremely good crime thriller. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman
are really good in this movie. The movie is really dark with many
effective scenes in the movie. It is like the director is going out of
his way to make the viewer queasy. All in all it is a good movie if a
bit dark for my liking but the characters are good and the narrative is
also worthy of respect. It is a blend of crime, horror and Thriller
movies and shows and in some respects it is a foreshadow to the CSI
series that now are all over TV.Great performance from Brad Pitt in this movie. The gritty feel of the
movie is also very realistic.

******
14 February 2014
6
i watched this movies honestly for Morgan and i love his acting. the
acting over all was good i liked it but i think watching this movie in
2013 and rating it is not fair but as i did so i rated and reviewing as
now a days i happen to watch a lot of movies like this and it seemed a
typical story :( and it was predictable the killer "at stairs with
camera" and at the end when movie name is seven and killer had murdered
five people and a police man is chasing him and his wife....... is
tired of his full devotion to work and being ignored and then she tells
his fellow police office about her pregnancy ..... there are other two
....which will add to total of seven.as i said early it is unfair to rate this movie in 2013 so sorry i did
it in 2013

******
31 December 2013
10
If Fincher didn't invent the convention of the brilliant serial killer
always being just one step ahead of the police, he unquestionably
perfected it here. This is the twisted psychopath unleashing his
vengeance upon the deserving, avaricious world at its absolute best.
And this remains Fincher's best film.Two cops in New York are hunting a serial killer. The presence of the
killer is momentous even before the detectives track him down, once
caught, the killer is channeled through Kevin Spacey with a
disturbingly authentic evil calm.Written by Andrew Kevin Walker, this amazing original script that was
almost never made. Walker wrote it as an original screenplay around
1991. Apparently he was quite depressed at the time. New Line Cinema
bought it, but it took years before it went into production Walker went
to work on other projects thinking the script would never be made, but
it was. It was released Sept 22, 1995. By using the seven deadly sins
as the basis for justifying the killer's prerogative, the film's plot
is definitely one of the best around, added to this amped up, excellent
performances by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman, the production comes off
flawlessly, but Seven is so haunting and goes down as one of the best
Thrillers of all time because of Fincher's vision of a hellish New
York. This world is poison and Fincher makes it seep. The grit and grime of the crimes scenes combined with filth of the city
streets, alleyways, rooftops, constantly being pounded with rain,
darkness engulf even the few happy moments of the film. So much of this
film's beauty is in the compilation. The sets and lighting are so
complex that making Seven must have been the result of a finely tuned
crew, each member bulked up on their own creative genius. It is how
everything, every element aligns perfectly that makes Se7en such a
phenomenal filmmaking achievement.More at getthebonesaw.blogspot.com

******
23 December 2013
7
First of all, the cast was great! Morgan Freeman (Somerset) and Brad
Pitt (Mills) did a great job and help create just the right atmosphere
for the movie (dead bodies aside). But one of the greatest villains of
all time must be Jon Doe played by Kevin Spacey. The character was
incredibly scary and completely out of his mind but still seemed quite
intelligent and focused. Spacey did a superb job in portraying him. The
story reminds me a lot of the book "Illuminati" by Dan Brown but
without the "happy end". And that's what I really didn't like: Why did
Mills Girlfriend have to die in the end?. I get why the writes chose
this Ending but did it have to be this cruel? I felt so scared and
quite throughout the whole movie and I really needed something good to
happen in the End. I would still recommend this movie because of the great cast and story.

******
22 September 2013
10
IMO this is David Finchers best film. Fight Club was good. The Game was
interesting, but this overshadows them all.Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt play two detectives who are after a serial
killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his M.O.Brad Pitt actually acts in this film, Morgan Freeman is awesome as
always, but Kevin Spacey delivers one of the best performances I have
ever seen.This film had me gripped from start to finish, however it is the last
30 minutes of the film that made this so special. Never before or since
I watched this film have I ever been so engrossed in a film than I was
in the last 30 minutes of Se7en.10/10. Superb.

******
12 August 2012
8
A psychopathic killer goes around killing people, staging their death
according to one of the seven deadly sins. Two cops are assigned for
the case, one is experienced and stoic and one is impulsive and heated.
As they investigate the case, they get caught up in the killers game
and need to immerse themselves in his psyche.David Fincher orchestrates this film as a pretty straightforward
thriller for the most part. The two cops go from crime scene to crime
while both of their characters get explored and you get to understand
why they work how they do. The dynamic between Morgan Freeman and Brad
Pitt really works here because neither of them is a cardboard cutout,
simply there to convey their respective life mottos, but real
three-dimensional human beings, allowing for some genuine conflict. The
killer here is a self-perceived messenger of god, on a mission to show
everyone how messed up the world has become. Kevin Spacey portrays him
as intelligent and seemingly controlled, rather than insane, which you
would expect from someone who puts heads in shoe boxes, thus making
this villain scary as hell.The ending is plotted perfectly and it thematically rounds up the
movie. Although its pacing isn't pulled off as perfectly as its
written, its still one of the best endings you'll ever see in a
thriller.

******
15 April 2012
9
David Fincher's dark, gruesome and intelligent thriller Se7en remains
one of my favorite films of the 1990s. It's dark visual tone and use of
pathetic fallacy coupled with the harrowing story of a killer
attempting to teach humanity a lesson is both disturbing and brilliant.
Fincher shows audiences his true capabilities as a director, and Se7en
is an exercise in storytelling, visual style, and suspense, making it
one of the definitive crime thrillers of the 20th century.The film begins in a miserable and unidentified cityscape, perhaps Los
Angeles, or New York. Perhaps it is simply a metaphorical version of
all the crime in American urban areas. This city seems  for at least
the one week the movie takes place in  perpetually covered in fog and
light rain. We are introduced to Detective Mills (Brad Pitt), a young
and impulsive cop who was transferred to the city. He is paired with
Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman), an older, calmer, meticulous
veteran to the force with one week left before retirement. The
contrasting pair make a nice centrepiece for the havoc which is to be
wrecked upon them by an unknown murder.Their first case together is the supposed murder of an obese man, found
bound to a chair, he was forced at gunpoint to eat himself to death.
His crime was gluttony. There are six more deadly sins, all of which
the meticulous, patient, and above all disturbed, serial killer plans
to use as his MO. They are: greed, sloth, lust, pride, wrath, and envy.
Somerset, who has a keen insight into the mind of the killer, asks to
be taken off the case but remains in contact with Mills as he reads
through Dante's "Divine Comedy", Chaucer's "Canterbury Tales", and
other prose relating to the seven deadly sins. Together the pair of
detectives get closer to the murderer, eventually ending in a climax
which is brilliantly scripted by Andrew Kevin Walker.The key to Se7en's success as a crime-thriller is the feel of the
movie. Fincher is terrifically talented at bringing to life the most
stylish interpretation of the material possible. The sinister
atmosphere of the city is only furthered by the grisly murders and the
seeming hopelessness of finding the murderer. Even when they find what
they think is his apartment they don't discover a single fingerprint.
Also vital to the film is the script by Andrew Kevin Walker. He gives
Morgan Freeman just enough poetic lines to run with, and the killer
presented here is unique. He is intelligent, he writes his thoughts
down journal after journal, he is patient, calm, sensible, and he seems
to enjoy killing his victims. Interestingly, the murderer is presented
with about 30 minutes left of the film, given a speaking role and made
an important character, opposed to simply being the unnamed monster
behind the killings who is caught at the end. I won't ruin who plays
the killer for anyone who hasn't seen the film, just know that it was a
smart choice both to cast this actor/actress, but also not to advertise
it.Brad Pitt gives a strong performance as Mills, the younger cop who
loses his temper more frequently, but still believes he can make a
difference. I wouldn't have liked anyone else to play the role, but I
could see a handful of other actors also embodying Mills. Somerset, on
the other hand, could not logically be played by anyone but Morgan
Freeman. Freeman's calm deep voice, and his presence on-screen is
unavoidable. His character more questioning of the supposed good nature
of humanity, yet still devoted to catching the killer. He is
intellectual, he reads Milton and Dante and Chaucer for clues to the
murders, and he thinks before he acts, unlike Detective Mills. This
difference in character serves as an essential plot point later in the
film. David Fincher has become internationally successful as a maker of both
highly stylish thrillers (e.g. Fight Club, The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo) and more sweeping dramatic films like The Curious Case of
Benjamin Button and The Social Network. Se7en was Fincher's first real
venture into the crime-thriller genre, and it stands as one of his best
works. The director is certainly unafraid of being uncompromising and
violent, and he shows a strong understanding of visual style and
artistic expression. Many shots in this film are incredibly memorable,
being just a part of what makes Se7en such an unavoidable film.

******
19 March 2012
7
This is a dark, disturbing movie. It is intense, scary, and thought
provoking. The dialogue is excellent. But it will disturb you. When I
went to see this movie in the theatre, I was on the edge of my seat,
not just out of tension, because I was straining to hear what everyone
was saying. I know they didn't have the volume turned down to low,
because the soundtrack, and all other sounds in the movie were LOUD,
its just all the actors sounded like they were mumbling. OK, maybe it
was just the accoustics of the theatre. I rented it once on VHS, and
there was the same problem -- you could barely hear anything that
anyone said. OK, I had a lousy VCR, I thought it would be different
when I got in on DVD. I watched it again last weekend, and it was still
the exact same problem. The sound editing on this movie is pretty bad,
which is REALLY frustrating, because its an amazing movie. You'd think
that someone else would have mentioned this to the producers by now,
and they would have re-edited it for the DVD.Still, if you have strong ears, and a strong stomach, this movie is
well worth watching.

******
17 March 2012
8
Seven deadly sins. Seven ways to die.Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) and Detective Lt. William Somerset
(Morgan Freeman) are two unlikely partners on a mission to find and
stop a disturbed serial killer whose crimes are inspired by the seven
deadly sins.One sin after another is punished through the killers' series of grisly
and twisted murders. Meanwhile the detectives are strung along by a
series of clues that lead them to each of the next attacks. Finally the
killer is captured, but his delusional mission is not yet complete.
There is still one final, chilling act remaining which he hopes will
strike at the heart of a world he believes to be rotten to the core
with sin.Kevin Spacey plays the maniacal "John Doe" in this cult classic. His
character is convincingly troubled and troubling all at once. But
Spacey isn't the only highlight of the film. The movie is excellently
acted all around and Freeman and Pitt are at the top of their games.The films horrible crimes are described in graphic detail and you are
left wondering after each one which sin will be next and in what
creatively insane manner the killer will strike. But there is no way to
predict the shocking twist ending which undoubtedly played a large role
in catapulting the film in to cult status.

******
16 March 2012
9
I think just about everyone who has seen ALIEN 3 can agree, it's pretty
crappy. We should all be thankful that Hollywood had the foresight to
realize that it's director David Fincher managed to show considerable
talent and saved it from the ultimate train wreck it's long,
problematic development meant it should have been. After throwing
himself under the bus to complete ALIEN 3, Fincher was given the chance
to prove what he was really capable of with SE7EN. The film is a modern
classic and most people will agree. I love a good serial killer story,
and SE7EN is right up there at the top of the list with the best of
them. Thanks to it's gripping story, talented performances, and an
ending that will go down as one of the most memorable, SE7EN is an
excellent movie well-deserving of the long-term attention it's gotten
and the status it helped to build for Fincher. In the film, Detective
William Somerset is one week from his retirement and begins training
his replacement, the younger and more naïve Detective David Mills.
Mills is a hotshot with an impatient attitude, recently transferred
from a small town to the big city where he hopes to make a difference.
Mills' first case, and Somerset's supposed final, turns into something
larger than your average homicide. A new serial killer has come to
light and he is using torture and murder to preach against the seven
deadly sins to his victims (e.g. an obese man is forced to eat himself
to death at gunpoint).This is a dark, twisted movie. From the very beginning we open with a
warped credits sequence and a glimpse into the methods of the
yet-unknown serial killer to the remixed sound of Nine Inch Nails'
"Closer". And it only gets more twisted from there. We never actually
see the murderer (with the inconspicuous name John Doe) in action as
the audience. Instead, we see the aftermath as Somerset and Mills
arrive on the scene and each crime scene is more brutal than the last.
John Doe is a psychopath and uses his victims to preach his message in
the worst way possible. SE7EN is the most gripping serial
killer/thriller since THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS and even now, almost
twenty years since it's release, is just as powerful as always. While
there may not be any brutal violence occurring on screen, I would still
recommend discretion for audience members who don't care for the darker
subject matter. Despite the fact the movie was released in 1995, I'll
try to remain spoiler-free when discussing the movie just in case, but
the end of this movie has been parodied and paid homage countless times
since. It's a strong ending and I'm glad it didn't cop out and go the
usual route where the killer is stopped before his crimes can escalate
and the story ends on a high note. Not here; it's a bittersweet ending
where you could even go so far as to say the villain triumphs over the
heroes.Every element of this movie contributes to its strength. The
cinematography from Darius Khondji is amazing. The visual style of this
movie is just as prominent as any performance. The high contrast,
abundance of low lighting, overcast weather and sharp instances of
source lighting (I really loved the red neon cross in Doe's apartment)
gives this movie an overwhelming feeling of gloom that coincides with
Detective Somerset's view on life in the city. I would love to get my
hands on the screenplay from Andrew Kevin Walker for this one, as it's
incredibly well written and was perfectly suited for the talents of
someone as visually strong as director Fincher. The cast in this movie,
again inspired. The only real important characters in the film are
Somerset (Morgan Freeman), Mills (Brad Pitt), and the killer John Doe
(who I won't spoil here on the off chance that someone reading this has
not seen the movie and somehow avoided any and all revelations about
Doe). Morgan Freeman is the kind of actor where you expect a powerful
performance, and he delivers just that. Somerset is a jaded detective
who's spent years on the force and seen it all (until Doe came along);
he's tired and he's ready to find a simpler life. I've also got to give
Pitt some great credit here because SE7EN was the movie that helped me
realize Pitt was more talented than I'd believed and more than just a
Hollywood pretty boy (further solidified in FIGHT CLUB, another awesome
Fincher film). And finally, the actor portraying John Doe is excellent.
Doe is a cold, calculating killer who truly believes in what he is
doing and the actor gives one of the best eerie performances. All
together, this all combines to create one of the best films of the 90s
and almost guaranteed to become a favorite.

******
1 March 2012
9
The seven deadly sins are used as a motive for a serial killer being
tracked down by detectives Somerset(Morgan Freeman) and Mills(Brad
Pitt). The first victim killed is an obese man who represents gluttony. A
wealthy attorney found dead is greed. Lust is an obvious choice, a
prostitute murdered and raped. A beautiful model whose face has been
slashed dies, pride is her great sin and all of the Catholic big seven
are covered by the end of this very well written and thoughtful
analysis of a sick mind.Freeman and Pitt make a great pair, and Kevin Spacey is creepy as John
Doe, the suspect. There is no easy solution and the ending is one of
the best I've ever seen.

******
16 February 2012
8
Awesome acting performances by Morgan Freeman & Brad Pitt, and Kevin
Spacey too; reminded me of his role in THE USUAL SUSPECTS. But, in
spite of such high quality performances, and some fantastic screenplay
and editing, nothing could make me deny the fact that the script was
just average & not anything more than that. Although the climax was
"gut-wrenching", as called by few, it was not at all so much worth
watching. I came through this movie, after having watched a lot of
movies of the genre of crime-mystery-thriller. I think such movies can
be made far better, by adding some kind of twists at the ending. The
one given in this movie was not essentially a twist; it was just
something to add 2 more to the 5 sins to make it Seven. I'm not at all
telling that its a bad movie.One can rate it 8/10 but obviously not
8.7. And you know there's quite a lot difference between 8 and 8.7,
here at IMDb. Movies like The Usual Suspects, Silence of the Lambs, Red
Dragon, etc. are better.

******
16 October 2009
9
David Fincher of Se7en, The Game, Fight Club and recently the Curious
Case of BB! What could you need more to get you into watching Seven if
you haven't yet?! Ah, let me guess, probably you'd need Brad Pitt and
Morgan Freeman. What else, let me see, hmmm what about the great Kevin
Spacey (come on Spacey of Americna Beauty, L.A. Confidential, Usual
Suspect, 21 and his first and best Seven). Now, add to all that 7 sins
which means 7 murders and not only that you need to guess what are the
7 sins because many people have watched it, loved it, praised it but
when I asked them who was the 7th victim, they simply didn't know the
answer. Count the people murdered in the movie once more and you will
know what I am talking about. This movie is, simply and in one word,
just amazing.

******
4 October 2009
9
Murder mysteries don't often indulge their audience's intellectual
capacity. They generally believe they can get by on suspense, intrigue
and our inherent and insatiable need to find out 'whodunit.' But
"Se7en" is a philosophical thriller that addresses a much bigger part
of our nature - the age old question of whether or not humans are
inherently evil. As gripping as it is the way it turns gears in your head in search of
any way to get mentally one step ahead of the plot, "Se7en" is a
first-rate crime thriller because of the ideas fueling the story and a
director in David Fincher who perfectly understands them.More than a story of two detectives on the trail of a serial killer
committing murders based on the seven deadly sins, "Se7en" wants to be
something bigger. It wants you to take a breather from figuring it out
and chew on something a little more sophisticated, like say, human
nature. The contemplative script by Andrew Kevin Walker gives us plenty
of time for this as retiring Lt. Somerset (Freeman) and Det. Mills
(Pitt) bicker over the killer's motives together or even have dinner at
Mills' apartment. It's not just about the mystery and what psychology
or ideals drive the killer -- those ideas echo throughout the film and
even in these basic conversational scenes.None of that would be communicated well, however, without Fincher
("Alien 3"). "Se7en" takes place in an unnamed rundown city, presumably
in modern day, and that locational flexibility allows Fincher and
whoever scouted locations the ability to film the movie in places that
would better tell this story about human nature. The murder scenes take
place in seedy, decrepit apartments -- all usually dark -- in attempt
to tell a story of humanity in its darkest place, at it's very worst.
Constant use of on-screen lights (e.g characters holding flashlights,
red lamps, etc) give the film its signature while also extending the
metaphor. It's the work of a director who understands the script
through and through and has command of his vision.The characters are also extremely sophisticated and believable as are
the performances of the actors playing them. Freeman comes fresh off
his Oscar-winning performance in "The Shawshank Redemption" and
absolutely dominates the pacing of the film. We take our cues on when
to relax, when to get more curious and when to get passionate from his
performance. On the verge of retirement, we see perfectly how this one
life-changing case challenges his hardened world view.Even Pitt's Mills, in his impatience, naivety and quick-tempered
rebellious perspective, goes quickly from characteristics that feel a
little forced to monumentally epiphanic near the climax. Pitt's taken
on numerous roles in his career where we think we're getting the shells
of a character role but we end up getting something meaningful after
all.That's sort of the way "Se7en" works on the whole. Before you can even
realize it, you suddenly realize you've been watching a thoughtful
two-hour sermon about mankind's true nature and its inclination toward
evil with a large order of murder mystery on the side. Few thrillers
give us the pleasure of meditating on such important ideas, in this
case a question at the center of philosophy for hundreds if not
thousands of years. ~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.blogspot.com

******
28 September 2009
8
Two detectives, retiring veteran Morgan Freeman (as William Somerset)
and hotshot rookie Brad Pitt (as David Mills), team up to trail a
serial killer chalking up victims as an homage to the "Seven Deadly
Sins" - "Gluttony", "Greed", "Sloth", "Lust", "Pride", "Envy", and
"Wrath". Don't read anything more about this film; I didn't, and still
had it figured out during the final road trip. That it's fairly
predictable, and presents two "stock" characters, doesn't mean "Seven"
("SE7EN" if you use all caps) is a bad trip.In fact, it's an excellent film, with a stylish look created by
director David Fincher and cinematographer Darius Khondji, from writer
Andrew Kevin Walker's intriguing story. Strangely, only film editor
Richard Francis-Bruce was nominated for an "Academy Award". And, there
were no acting "Oscars". Hopefully, Mr. Freeman just missed getting
nominated for "Best Actor"; he certainly deserved to be, for his
sharply focused take on the character type also happens to precisely
reflect the mood of the piece.******** Seven (9/22/95) David Fincher ~ Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt,
Kevin Spacey, Gwyneth Paltrow

******
22 September 2009
8
This movie is not for those offended by strong language and chilling
violence. But it most definitely is for fans of fine acting. Brad Pitt,
Morgan Freeman and Gwynneth Paltrow are superb, as is the surprise
appearance of the serial killer in the story -- I won't name him and
spoil anything for he is not identified until the final credits even
though you will recognize him immediately once you finally see him
towards the end of the film. The cinematography is excellent,
heightening the suspense all through the film. The musical score again
fits perfectly, my only complaint being sometimes it's loud enough to
muffle dialog you really want to hear clearly. Other than that, a fine
-- if blood-curdling -- film.

******
2 June 2009
9
Watched a movie after a long time and what a choice for a comeback .
Se7en is a shocking, disturbing, cold, sinful thriller which takes hold
of the audience for the entire length of the movie. The story is about
two police cops, one about to retire and one a very young new entry
played by Freeman and Pitt respectively. Just before Detective Somerset
(Freeman) is about to retire, a strange case of murder comes into
picture which introduces the police department to a cold-blooded,
patient and deranged serial killer who kills people one after the other
on the basis of seven deadly sins mentioned by religion which are
subjected to death of the sinner. Thus the serial killer aims at
killing 7 people, one for each sin respectively. Detectives Somerset
and Mills (Pitt) are given this case and they both try their different
methods to uncover this mystery and catch the killer. A very unique
plot, this movie is made even more thrilling by the classic direction
of Fincher. This movie can be called a milestone in the suspense genre.Brad Pitt as the young, restless cop Mills has done his job pretty well
. But there are some scenes where we feel that he is overacting a bit.
Morgan Freeman on the other hand makes us feel that this particular
role of Detective Somerset was written just for him. Kevin Spacey in a
small role as the deranged killer is impressive and makes us feel that
he is truly a cold blooded psychopath . Overall, a must watch movie
Rating : 8.5/10

******
16 February 2009
10
One of the best serial killer movies ever, and also one of the best
detective movies! This movie is great. David Fincher is one of the best
movie director's. All of his movies (with the exception of Alien3) are
interesting stories, and visually beautiful. This movie was made at a
time when Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, and Kevin Spacey were all amazing
actors. Since then they've all been in a few really bad movies. If you
haven't yet watched this movie, go watch it NOW!!! The plot development
is perfect. the acting, directing, and plot line were very well done. I
don't know what else to say about this movie that hasn't already been
said countless times, but this is definitely one of my favorite movies
of all time. One of the best movies from the 1990s. A must see!

******
15 September 2008
10
This movie was by far the most powerful psychological thriller ever
made to date. Three of the best actors in one film giving an air of
electricity could hardly be achieved by any other than The Usual
Suspects. A film where two cops try to unravel the mysteries about a
series of homicides, stemming from the seven deadly sins. Each
character seeping a film of evil from themselves even though they are
dead made the public think what if a serial murderer is right. That
each death was necessary as he saw fit, making sure that the deadly
sins was carried out to such a degree that the outcry from this maniac
was heard by the public. And in turn having each person reconsider
their lives and why we are here. David fincher did a brilliant job
directing this film, giving us a glimpse into the horrific underworld
of the deadly sins, in the cracks of the streets or sidewalks and where
the stragglers walk the alley ways, and even capturing the stink of the
scene where the public cringes their noses watching. Brad Pitt, Morgan
freeman, and Kevin spacey was magnificent together. Making the end
scene the most powerful ever created, and along with the end scene the
music that gave the film its most impactive climax to date. Wonderful
movie.

******
13 August 2008
9
This generally is a superb movie. I didn't really expect much of this
movie, but i adore mystery/thriller movies and well this is epic. I'm
not going to bore you with the plot because you probably read it above
but i will tell you why it is absolutely a great deserving much higher
on the IMDb top 250 list than a measly 34/35.It is a very eary thriller which is always sending a shiver down your
spine because of the constant atrocious weather and dark, empty rooms.
Every part of the killers sadistic nature is captured exquisitely
during the investigations and i'm glad that lots of clues are found
that link to the killers identity whereas in some movies they just get
one clue and they know where to go next which bores me. This had so
much more depth and each clue and piece of evidence links perfectly
into what the killer is going to do next.I thought Brad Pitt was going to be terrible and i would get to slate
down his emotionless acting, yet he was terrific. A great loving sense
for his wife and kids and also becomes more likable as his character
(Detective Mills) and Morgan Freeman's character (Detective Somerset)
become more like partners rather than just cops. Obviously Morgan
Freeman played the part amazingly and you always feel he has a great
sense of knowledge and wisdom which is what i expected.Each scene is well thought out and works well with the story so credit
to the writer and some terrific music helped emphasise the tension of
each scene.So all in all a spectacular movie which case shall remain off my shelf
and in my player for time to come. 10/10

******
27 August 2007
10
I love "Se7en". It's captivating, horrifically repulsive, thought
provoking, and violently thrilling. Fincher's style creates a
foreboding and appealing atmosphere that makes you HAVE to look, even
if mounting tension and repulsion would compel you to do otherwise.
Fincher shows you some very disturbing, bloody things in this film, but
he pulls back and uses implication rather than illustration at the
perfect times. The climax is incredible in its ability to effect you,
forcing you to be introspective about what you would do in the
character at center stage's position. Few films have engaged me
emotionally and mentally in such a way.

******
29 July 2007
10
Have you ever came out of a theater and thought, "Man that movie was a
complete piece of sh**. It had a terrible plot, no excitement, and a
under satisfying ending." Well this movie will give you a complete
opposite reaction. First off it is brilliant how the murderer in the
film kills people. He works by referring to the 7 deadly sins. Second
off, even at points of the film when things happen and you think that
you might know how this movie will end, you are completely blown off
your feet. I was so shocked about how this thriller ended, I couldn't
help but spoil the ending to many off my friends. Even the acting in
this film was terrific, specially by Brad Pitt. I hardly like any of
the other films that Brad Pitt has been in, but this role was terrific.
If there is one movie that you have not seen and want to pick up the
next time you go to the rental store, i suggest se7en. *Caution get
ready to pee your pants from the ending*I just became the living definition of what is wrong with user ratings.

******
3 April 2007
8
I thought this movie was very suspenseful. It's about two detectives,
Freeman and Pitt,who are trying to solve serial mysteries. The victims
were innocent people who were being killed because the crazy "john Doe"
condemned to death because they had committed a sin. The title to the
movie se7en are for the seven deadly sins; gluttony, pride, wrath,
envy,greed, sloth, and lust. "John Doe" whom the detectives can't find
any type of finger prints to kills each person and leaves clues for the
next killing. Freeman portrays a great detective in this movie, it was
like he was meant to be a detective, like in Along Came a Spider. I was
very intrigued when he stated "there are seven deadly sins etc......."
At first i was like wow!! How does he know this ? Then he teaches Pitt
what he should be looking forward to.Pitt goes and gets books and cliff
notes on the stories.The movie is set in New York, some of the places the detectives visit
is dark and gloomy. The are some scenes where you see the inexperience
detective Pitt, almost gags and/or cover his nose, which Freeman an
experienced Detective don't.The movie has a twisted ending which is a
mouth dropper. I would advise anyone to see this movie, especially if
you love a suspenseful, crime, gory movie.

******
12 June 2006
8
When I first saw Se7en, I thought it was reasonable. Then, reading the
endless comments on IMDb that held it up as some sort of masterpiece, I
became frustrated with people thinking that just because it is a well
put together serial killer film, it is a masterpiece. Yet of late, I
have realised, that Se7en is not a serial killer film. Not just that,
anyway.Se7en is an idea, a statement (if you're as pessimistic as that) about
the world we live in. There is not a single moment in this film that
does not scream "The world is a horrible place." Personally I don't
agree that that is true, but that doesn't make the notion of the film
any less masterful. So, it is since I have realised that Se7en is not
about a killer, but a horrible notion, that yes, it is a masterpiece.
Whether you enjoy it or not, is a different story. But if you have not
yet seen it, whilst you're watching it - consider Somerset's (Morgan
Freeman) point of view, and consider how the film expresses it.There are some brilliant dark films out there - but I consider Se7en to
be the darkest (and one of the best) of them all - hence the title of
this review, The Prince of Darkness.

******
6 August 2003
8

Se7en is your run of the mill detective thriller with a razor sharp and
bloody edge, though it is not only the gore that sets this movie apart.
With an incredible cast (Morgan Freeman, Brad Pit, Kevin Spacey, Gweneth
Paltrow, and R. Lee Emery), a sometimes overly slick but competent
director
(David Fincher of Fight Club fame), and a smart script by Andrew Kevin
Walker (8mm) this movie was a much needed shot in the arm for the
genre.We open on Dectective Somerset (Morgan Freeman) at the scene of a violent
crime, this pretty much sets the tone.  Dectective Mills (Brad Pitt)
enters
and we learn that Somerset is retiring and Mills is his replacement.  This
is there "transition" period and Mills last week on the job.These first few short scences are followed by one of the best opening
credit
sequeces ever made.At the scene of another horribly gruesome crime we come across a man who
has
aparently eaten to death.  When another, equally heinous, crime is linked
to
the first we realize that there maybe a serial killer on the prowl.  The
Race is on.  Can John Doe (Kevin Spacey), our friendly nieghborhood
psychopath, be stopped before he kills one person for every deadly sin (of
which there are 'Se7en'), will Somerset get is man before he is out to
pasture, and is there something more to these killings than at first
glance.I strongly recomend this movie, but only to the not so sqeamish.  With a
dark gritty atmosphere and filthy city as the backdrop to the
unconscionable
actions of mad man, you should not be let down.  This is a highly
entertianing film with more than one layer.  If you have not seen it you
are
missing out.     

******
11 March 2002
7

Morgan Freeman is everything a man can be - full of wisdom,about to retire and contemplate his life, etc.  Brad Pitt is everythinga man wants to become - new to the force, full of hopes, dreams,visions.  He has a wife and wants to start a family.  Kevin Spacey iseverything a man doesn't want to be, but is only understood bythose who are psychotic like him - to an outsider, Spacey'scharacter is true evil but to those who can sympathize with him. Spacey is the voice for those who know not what they do.  Seven isdisturbing, not for the mild hearted, and made me jump at parts(something that rarely happens.)

******
20 October 2001
8

This film was VERY VERY exciting.And it was also technical brilliant and the
acting by Morgan Freeman(which is a great actor)has never been better but
also Brad Pitt is good.Even if the film are good it´s extremely Dark and I
am not sure if I like the end because it´s one of the most dark endings I
have ever seen.Still the film is very well done,well acted and VERY
exciting.4/5

******
21 February 2001
10

After seeing it a while back and thinking it was a good thriller, I saw it
again, maybe getting more out of it a second time. Boy was I right. Seven is
a complete masterpiece, a movie that is so tense, riveting, chilling and
dark that it is a revelation in cinema history. Not one scene I found to be
gratuitous, boring, or bad. Some of the scenes in it disturbed me so badly,
I couldn't get to sleep for a couple of days, namely the knife-rape part.
Seven is much like Fincher's recent masterpiece, Fight Club, in it's view of
the dark, ugly side of the world. Seven takes us there and never lets us
back for air, and fascinates us at every thrilling minute. A landmark in
cinema history. 10/10.

******
10 March 2000
10

"There are seven deadly sins captain, gluttony, greed, sloth, wrath,
pride,
lust and envy. Seven."A killer is on the loose in the Unnamed City and they are using the seven
deadly sins as their MO. Two cops are assigned to investigate, Sommerset a
world weary cop, soon to retire, and Mills an experienced investigator,
but
new to this city and its ways. Its an old combo, but Fincher makes it
work,
and work well.Pitt in my opinion is at his best here. He portrays a very believable cop
(at least in my experience) dedicated and not too cultured. Freeman, while
playing the intellectual-about-to-retire cop Sommerset, brings forth great
presence to the movie, the calm ying to Mills raging yang (or is it the
other way round?)Some of the most disturbing aspects of this movie, are not those which we
see, but those which we are left to think about. The killer's reasoning
behind the murders almost makes it justified, perhaps the most disturbing
aspect of all.The action sequences are all realistic and believable(well, as good as it
gets in Hollywood anyway). The constant rain, the dilapidated sets, unique
camera angles, innovative film processing and a oppressive soundtrack make
Se7en a complete indulgence of the senses.As for the ending, it has to be seen to be believed.This movie will scar, but then, isn't that what good thrillers
do?

******
10 January 2000
10

Dark, evil tale of a killer using the 7 deadly sins as grounds. The cops on
his tail are always one step behind and get to witness the unbelievable
cruelty that the murderer has inflicted upon his victims. No compromise:
this is the most evocative film to appear in recent years, and I bet the
ending had Andrew Kevin Walker bouncing up and down shouting: "I'm the king
of the world" too. Fantastic.

******
16 November 1999
7

Se7en is a very excellent movie. The cinematography is outstanding, and
combined with the production design it creates an extremely dark and bleak
village (I don't believe they identified it). The screenplay is
intelligently written, the direction is well done also. Though Brad Pitt,
who to this date I have seen him act well only once (12 Monkeys), is not
very convincing as detective David Mills, it doesn't really matter. Morgan
Freeman is incredible as always, playing his calm, cool and wise character
he has mastered in every way. Kevin Spacey is breathtaking in his small but
pivotal role. He does his best supporting work ever here, he was only better
in The Usual Suspects, and possibly L.A. Confidential.       The film starts out on a crime scene, where we are introduced to
detective Mills (Pitt) and Somerset (Freeman). They talk, and we learn that
Mills is new in the force, and that Somerset is a veteran that is retiring
within the week. They don't get along well, and when they find a mysterious
murder (an overweight man was forced to eat spaghetti until he burst, and
the word gluttony is found written in grease on the wall) Somerset suggests
he be moved to a different case as well as Mills. This is denied, of course.
The 2 find a couple other murders with words written bizzarely on the walls
or the floor, and they deduce that the murders are linked to a serial killer
who kills according to the seven deadly sins. 
       Though I saw the censored version on ABC and probably didn't get the
full effect of the movie, I still think I have a pretty good idea of the
movie's quality. It's brilliant. 
       So then why is this movie only a 3 out of 4? There are missing links
to the story, and sometimes there is too much relying on suspension of
belief. However, you must see this movie, if not just for the last 20
minutes where we finally meet John Doe, the man behind the killings who to
the amazement of Mills and Somerset hands himself in and volunteers to give
a full signed confession to all of the crimes. The catch? To take Mills and
Somerset, alone, to the scenes of the last 2 "killings".......

******
11 October 1999
10

Its should be classified as the best thriller ever made. Its a classic.
Morgan and Pitt where extra ordinary, they were made to be together in this
great movie. Though in was not the full version of the story its still
great. In the book Pitt hurt Morgan with his knife and then he was taken to
the court, he served a short period as far as I remember.

******
28 June 1999
7

My approach to Seven was one of low expectations.  Based on the
stylistic opening credits, I was expecting to be assaulted with low-angle
extreme closeup murky cinematography designed to capitalize on human
reflex.
American film has been thwarted with bad technique in the
suspense/mystery
genre.  Instead of style and creativity, many directors have opted for the
ole standby of loud unexpected noises/music followed by the alerting
appearance of the villain.  Snore...However, such is not the case with
David
Fincher's Seven.  The style of Seven is fairly straightforward for the
first
seventy minutes of the film:  What you see is what you get.
Unapologetically grotesque images from the crime scenes of a serial murder
and a flood of rain in a dingy, dirty-textured metropolitan city.  The
plot
is nothing we haven't seen before, but it was plenty enough to keep you
interested in learning about the murderer.  However, the main characters
could not have been more contrived.  Morgan Freeman's character, Detective
Summerset, was catatonic to the point of being convincingly dull.  The
writer went for the starkest contrast with the character Detective Mills
(Brad Pitt) by giving him the playground mentality of hockey player turned
homicide detective.  The results were destructive to the film's effect.
In
the end, Mills and Summerset do their best to ruin the audience's interest
in their involvement.  Gwynneth Paltrow would receive mention if her
character weren't a mere fixture within a plot.  The characters just
didn't
help this film at all.  It was one of those all too often cases where the
actors look the part but the part is badly written =(  However, much to
the
credit of the production designer and cinematographer, the mood of this
film
was still very effective.  There was however one other regrettable
inconsistency:  For the first seventy minutes or so of the film, the
audience forcably endures the foul, wet and lonely darkness of the city
environment only to have the rug pulled out in the closing moments when
the
setting changes to a sun-bleached desert scape.  Hmmm...7 out of
10?

******
2 June 1999
8

Seven is far superior to serial-killer cliches such as Silence of The
Lambs.
Seven's graphic morbidness only helps exemplify the realities of the
situation. Great acting by Pitt, Freeman, and Spacy. The characters are
believable in that they are not perfect or even-tempered;they are real.
The
movie is real. ...But if you can't handle violence, gore, reality, or
political-incorrectness then stick to Mary Poppins.

******
10 July 2013
10
If you want to get obsessed about the seven deadly sins this is the
movie you've been waiting for. Have I never would imagine, Brad Pitt
and Morgan Freeman to produce a fine team work in acting. As well as
Kevin Spacey for his role as the villain.It's a film about a maniac serial killer that uses seven deadly sins as
its reference. As you can imagine, seven deadly sins brings seven
deaths and that's just about the amount of victims in this movie.
Brought to the eyes of the viewers perfectly till the end.The movie starts with gluttony, and then greed, sloth. lust, pride,
envy, wrath comes to follow quickly as the films pace increases to the
end. Every death/kill is brought beautifully. The set is as
representative as it can get to describe you the sin.A film that gave me a real hype about what it wants to deliver. Surely
must watched movie. This is one of the best film I have ever watched.
10/10

******
4 July 2013
8
I'm a little late to the party with Se7en, as I first watched it just
this year. One of those things where it's been in the queue forever and
I'm slowly working my way through. Anyhow as a result of my
procrastination, my "experience" of the film was slightly desecrated,
but my appreciation was not. I realized just before I reached the
massive twist of the film that I saw what was coming. I don't even
remember who spoiled it for me...but oh well.The only reason I address this is the final scene of the film is by far
the most talked-about aspect of the film...by FAR. And I didn't think
it was greatest final act shake-up I've seen, but the movie itself is
incredible. My favorite part of Se7en is it's stylishness. David Fincher delivers a
beautifully noir aesthetic to the piece that colors the entire story.
And my other favorite thing about Seven is the surreality of the
nameless, ever-raining, Gotham-like, hellhole city where our mystery
unfolds. I cannot overstate how much I love that story-telling choice.
It gives the film an immeasurable sense of dread and intrigue.
Aesthetically, simply a masterpiece. Se7en's other major strength it its leads. The script doesn't over-talk
anything; it's economical and concise, but provides just enough
chemistry for it's protagonists to make this "buddy cop" film stand
out. Pitt and Freeman turn in some of their most thoughtful work and
play excellently off one another. It's a character piece that succeeds
without dwelling too long on exposition or any forced "bonding". Their
relationship develops naturally, and in the face of abject
psychological chaos, calm moments are brief and rare. I suppose it would be unfair to not mention Seven's creatively macabre
components as well. I realize I didn't include a synopsis, but if you
haven't already heard it 100 times from cinephiles and review sites,
I'm sure it's somewhere on this page. The killer in Seven patterns
takes inspiration for his murderous work of art from the seven deadly
sins, and dispatches his victims in accordance with said sins. But the
bizarre and disturbing, (albeit not explicit) murders are still a means
to an end. The film's really about the tone, characters, and noir feel.
8.1/10

******
29 June 2013
9
Se7en has a lot of things going for it: A talented director and two
among the best American actors of the past 20 years (Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt, the second at the start of his career). Furthermore, the
plot is interesting enough: two detectives (Somerset and Mills) the
first just before retirement with his much younger colleague try to
resolve a number of murders perpetrated by a serial killer somewhere in
a north American city (looks like Philadelphia but could be Chicago, it
does not matter).I think the strength of the movie lies with the interaction of these
two characters who are so different from each other and see their job
from very different perspective. Both are very good professionals but
Mills is more ambitious and sees the murders as a puzzle to be solved
and does not spend much time trying to understand the killer's
motivations and mindset. Whereas Somerset is more resigned and perhaps
pessimistic about the efficiency of the police force to fight and
contain the evil of the serial killer and the crime in a big
metropolitan city like the one the action takes place.Finally, I thought that the movie tried to impose a visual style, e.g.
the way of showing detailed images of crimes and human depravity and
torture that made me feel uncomfortable at times. If the director's
message is that crime is bad because it looks 'bad' visually then I
have some reservations.

******
23 June 2013
10
It is seldom that a movie with such an eerie mood can continue with a
continuously building story line and characters who are so dynamic.
Modernism and beliefs lie at the heart of the movie, and Se7en does an
exceptional job in executing a great plot with even better acting.Most actors would not be capable of filling the roles of two detectives
in such a morbid case. The stars Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt act
wonderfully in their respective roles, and manage to remain in
character and evolve throughout the film. Being initially introduced to
the two men, both at different stages of life, viewers begin this
exhausting journey which neither characters are prepared for. With superb performances, underlying themes and a carefully manipulated
script, Se7en truly does succeed in encompassing the qualities every
great movie should. The numerous connections to religious and social
affiliations offer a different view of the world, and share the side of
things most do not see. Although the acts displayed are corrupt, which
is a purely subjective topic, insights into the mind of a killer offer
this movie a trait most lack - perspective. The brilliantly written script, including fabrications many people
would never even contemplate, puts Se7en on a new pedestal. This
thought-provoking thriller is one for the ages, and is one that I
highly recommend.

******
22 June 2013
9
A very exciting movie! The cast fits well with the narrated characters,
the acting is beyond question. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are a
wonderful combination. The story is is not only captivating and
exciting, but also convincingly brought over. The case and the murders
are so disturbing and brutally staged, that it quickly becomes clear
with what kind of monster they have to deal with. Kevin Spacey plays
his role as the killer convincing and also fits very well into the
overall picture. The tension starts to build up very quickly and leaves
little to the end, there are many twists that keep you tied. In my
opinion the only weak point of the film is the fact that from about 2/3
of the film, the end is easily predictable (at least for me). All in
all a very, very good psychothriller if not one of the best! 9/10

******
8 June 2013
10
Sin: 1-transgression of divine law; 2-any act Regarded to such a transgression, especially the willful or
deliberate violation of some religious or moral principle; 3-to commit a sinful act. The Sins began the film and led to the
end,but it was no sin making this film."Se7en", as you can see, it is about the seven deadly sins: Gluttony;
Greed; Sloth; Lust; Pride or Vanity; Envy; Wrath. It all starts when
the veteran Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and the rookie
detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) are both faced with a line of
murders, and every death there is a message written with one of the
deadly sins. They begin to notice that the killer, who later discover
is called John Doe (Kevin Spacey) uses all sins for a different kind of
murder. Soon both detectives begin a long study and research behind the
insane psychopath who will later lead them to an unexpected end.With "Se7en" David Fincher showed the fantastic director that he can
be. He went from hated (thanks to "Alien 3") to a true filmmaker giving
a spectacular direction. Each scene is shot accurately making the film
more tense and the investigation more thrilling. But it also gives
credits to Andrew Kevin Walker (screenplay) with a superb writing
delivering dialogs very well written and developed, and an insane study
in each of the sins, but even with the gloomy environment, the movie
manages to have humor that pretty much serves to calm the frantic pace.The cast is just wonderful. Morgan Freeman superb as always; Brad Pitt
once again great; but who stands out is Kevin Spacey, after his
appearance everything in the film seems to have a relapse, the suspense
increases, the atmosphere darkens, all thanks to its whimsical and
cultured expression of "serial killer".An electrifying thriller, well directed and written, loaded with
stunning performances, leading to an unexpected ending. "Se7en" is the
film that brought David Fincher to filmmaking life and to the world his
fantastic films.

******
14 May 2013
7
There is no crazier movie in the 90s that can cause to feel uneasy like
the way Se7en did. Seven used imagery and your ability to imagine the
insanity level of the perpetuator, to thrill you. The whole idea of
using a gore scene to take majority of the movie's screen time and then
satisfy the weird nature of some viewers was totally eliminated and the
movie just focused mostly on character development which many may see
as boring but it (the movie) still carried on to be a masterpiece. When
you see the way the co-stars interact you will just bow in respect to
their mastery of acting. Morgan Freeman played the old father figure
and a detective who has seen too much of the streets and is so eager to
retire and leave it all behind, while Brad Pitt played the younger cop,
who is full of energy and is ready to jump off roof tops and chase down
bad guys. The movie also made use of an array of supporting actors that
are very good on their own to star in a film, actors like Gwyneth
Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey, and Kevin Spacey, were also onboard in this
thriller.Seven features the newly transferred David Mills (Brad Pitt) and the
soon to retire William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) as homicide detectives
who become deeply involved in a case about a sadistic serial killer
whose accurately planned murders corresponding to the seven deadly
sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, wrath, pride, lust, and envy.The movie's name is seven but it is mostly characterized by Se7en and
it is a most see in many levels. The thrill that the movie brings and
the chemistry of the co-stars is one that you will not just find lying
around in any movie. Seven became the first of 3 films that director
David Fincher and actor Brad Pitt did together (that is as of now 2013)
the others were The Fight Club (1999) and The Curious Case of Benjamin
Button (2008).The movie was a massive hit in the 90s and it was a both a critical and
a commercial success as the 30 million budget brought in over 327
million in the box office. Andrew Kevin Walker received a BAFTA Award
nomination for Best Original Screenplay and the editor Richard
Francis-Bruce was nominated for an Academy Award for Film Editing.
Seven won the MTV movie award as the best film in its year.If you haven't seen Seven before or you are in the mood of another fun
thrilling ride as we chase down Kevin Spacey, then make time to see
this movie again.www.lagsreviews.com

******
24 March 2013
9
This movie is one of the best thrillers ever made, in my opinion. It is
my favorite together with Silence of the Lambs. The actors are great. I
kind of guessed the ending before it actually took place, but it was
very fitting to the whole movie. The idea to base the murders on the 7
deadly sins is very interesting. The whole plot makes sense and is
well-done. I read that some viewers found it disturbing, which is true,
it is NOT a movie for kids. But I wouldn't call this movie particularly
graphic or scary. It is right in the middle, suspense and action but no
bloody gore or "shock just to shock" mentality. I recommend this movie
to everyone who likes good thrillers!!

******
10 February 2013
10
This movie is fantastically written and constructed. From the beginning
we see a trend of murders develop in that of the seven sins. As the
movie progress' you can sort of guess whats coming next, despite this
the movie keeps you guessing, as there are a few curve balls along the
way. When detective mills(Brad Pitt) and detective somerset(Morgan
Freeman) finally track down the sadistic murderer known as John
Doe(Kevin Spacey) the action and drama intensifies. Se7en is greatly unique, i have watched many movies of this genre and
none compare. This is supported by the fantastic ending. As John doe
draws detective Mills into committing the final two of the seven deadly
sins, it was hard to predict what would happen next and what would be
in that mysterious package that was delivered.'The box'. Although we
never actually see what it is, its pretty obvious by the reactions. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt both show their great acting, as they are
both given a character that suits their stereotype. Kevin spacey also
plays a brilliant part in that he is so plain and shows no real emotion
which suits the movie correctly as nothing is to be given away. He also
casually drops hints into what the outcome of his 'great work' will be. Absolutely fantastic movie a must watch! 10/10

******
30 September 2012
9
Now I have seen this movie over 100 times and I have never gotten tired
of it. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play the role of their lives in
this movie. David Fincher's ability to make a gritty police film such
as this is amazing. Brad Pitt plays a rookie detective called David
Mills. He is assigned a job with William Somerset(Morgan Freeman). Here
they go through a series of killings by a person known only as John Doe
who uses the 7 deadly sins as his MO. After watching this film over 100
times shows that great films like this are dying. Se7en shows that a
great film can leave a footprint on cinema history. This is why i am
giving Se7en 9 out of 10

******
22 September 2012
9
Se7ven is a classical movie on crime and detection. The film moves
around two detectives; one seasoned and one novice. They are on a
mutual assignment to investigate and arrest a heinous serial killer
involved in torturing and murdering people. The story is excellently
written by Andrew Kevin Walker; depicts great home work on plot, might
involve review after review by him before finalization, in depth psyche
of all characters and order of happening of events in an ascending
order of gravity. The psyche of the killer was greatly conceived. There
are a number of films on torturing and serial killing but it was a
unique idea that what paradoxical impact one can perceive from great
writings of Dante! It's a genuine thinking of writer and super
cinematography by the director. Acting of Morgan Freeman is splendid.
He has the god given talent of absorbing into characters created for
him. His dressing however resembles to "Columbo" somehow. Brad Pitt was
great except in last scene when he was double minded; his hesitance was
understandable but acing was not that great as it was in whole film.
Viewers' interest, suspense and mystery of the film lasts until the
last scene as nobody was suspecting what actually happened; again full
marks to writer and director. This movie is up to the level of Psycho
by Alfred Hitchcock and we have David Fincher; an Alfred Hitchcock in
pipeline. This is the movie of the Director David Fincher. He is the
captain of the ship and knows how to set sail, where to speed up, where
to show emotions..... all is excellent. The choices of sets and
locations are great. The direction is simply magnificent. Special
effects and Sound is impressive. The music by Howard Shore is
inspiring, striking and exciting. The music plays a very important role
in the epic.

******
6 September 2012
6
Let's skip the outline (it's everywhere here). Instead, let's start
with some quality points: (++), (+), (0), (-) and (--).Excellent (++): Morgan Freeman (didn't surprise me; anyone?). Gwyneth
Paltrow (the way she plays her relatively small role is anything but
defective). And surely the dialog, practically all along, but
particularly when Somerset (Freeman) and Tracy (Paltrow) talk heart to
heart (trust me, at that moment, even the screen smokes).Good (+): directing, Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey, camera work, editing, the
way the movie depicts the police' daily life--along with the
questionable approach they've sometimes got to take... (The good points
are quite aplenty. But considering the space, we've just got to stop
here).So and so (0): screenplay (this is sort of a bargained price; we'll get
back to this at the very end).Bad/weak/silly (-): Somewhat aplenty. We pick one up, just so that you
kind reader see my point of what magnitude a (-) might look like. The
blood on the killer's shirt. Look again: chop, then ask some delivery
guy to deliver the package (500 bucks), take a cab, and on to the
police station (he need to BE there). All in THAT shirt. How discreet!
The poor guy must be wondering why he didn't attract any attention at
all along the way--even up inside the station's lobby (now I know why
he's never got caught: he's invisible!). And profile-wise, he always
messes up his victims, but never himself. A real turnoff.Sinful (--): the element of danger.It's mental. Without danger, there's no fear, suspense (and so forth).
And when do we SENSE danger? When we feel that something/someone is
THREATENING us--or anybody/anything we care about (our very existence,
purpose, grounds, close ones, heroes, etc). In the movie, we never
REALLY feel the fear, because no one ever FEELS threatened (not when it
still matters, anyway). Yes, we did SEE 'threat' once, in the chase
(UPON the culprit, with the fear of being caught). But we ONLY saw
that--NOT felt, because somehow the one we felt at that moment was
Mills (not the culprit). And our good cop is not being threatened, he
threatens, and forgiven(!)--right when we're just about to feel his (or
anybody's) fear in the whole movie (the chase itself is good, mind you;
it's about the ever-elusive element of danger throughout the movie that
I'm referring to all along). And yes, we do feel (strong) feeling once.
That cafe talk, surely. But the talk (however good) is about worry, and
the motif is love. So it doesn't fall into the fear-danger-threat sense
we're talking about. What I'm saying is--whilst not fatally wounded,
this middleweight not-a-whodunnit-noir-featured police story is,
seriously injured.There is a much simpler way to look at this issue. Try. WHERE? An
unnamed city. OK, we go there--we're in (shake hands with some
characters if that makes you feel better). WHAT? A sick crime. OK,
focus on it. Now take a few steps back (don't turn around, and keep
standing). The purpose of this antic is that now we've got a bigger
frame--now we can see the whole city (people, alleys,
rooms--everything). OK, now pinpoint someone (anyone) whom you WITNESS
ever feels threatened by DANGER.The funny thing about the city is that, despite the shocking nature of
the crime, our two heroes seem to be the only souls who take it
seriously. Others (be it someone in the Force or just common
townspeople) are barely aware of it (if at all). We might even find the
city peaceful (albeit gloomy). We don't really have a CHANCE to worry
about anyone's safety because apart from a few segments (like the
writing behind the fridge--which is a bit minor, and the tracking down
of John Doe's ID--which is quite snappy), cards are laid down on the
table as preliminaries (when the game hasn't really started yet) or as
post-mortem analyses (when the session is over). We always miss the
game. Now we can't really play along or feel the heat if we don't
INVOLVE IN THE PROCESS, can we? Don't get me wrong. Seven does have
many strong points, indeed (otherwise the blunder would've murdered the
movie mercilessly). I'm only saying that it's not suspenseful, at least
not in the way I think it's supposed to be (sometimes it's more like
doing a character study or reading a homicide paperwork). And if any
part of the movie did ever scare you in anyway, check again, maybe you
had mixed up fear with other like entities (pity, empathy, sympathy,
disgust, dislike, anger etc). Really, we're never been the eyewitness
because no SCENE ever really poses a THREAT. And in a movie like this,
it is a Sin. Cardinal. So while the screenplay does score (especially
if we get down to technicalities), it commits the biggest sin of
all--leaving out the very drive paramount in our existence: SURVIVAL.

******
16 July 2012
9
Se7en is about 2 detectives who are trying to catch a sadistic murderer
who uses the seven deadly sins as his method of operation. Brad Pitt
and Morgan Freeman both have very powerful characters and perform
brilliantly. The thing i enjoy most about seven is the weird and creepy way the film
is done and how dark and disturbing the film is, it really has an
affect on you and an affect is what we go the cinema for. Se7en also
has a magnificent twist ending just to top it all off.VERDICT: Simply a spine chilling masterpiece.9.3/10

******
4 June 2011
9
This is a fantastic movie and I cannot really find anything wrong with
it, but in the end it is just a crime drama. The one thing that sets it
apart from the rest of the crime dramas is the excellent cast and one
of the bleakest ending ever caught on film. Fincher really did do a
fantastic job of putting together a well-paced and surprisingly thought
provoking movie. Morgan Freeman is the constant in the movie that never allows the
viewer to lose hope that the situation is not hopeless, while keeping
the viewer cynical enough to make the city that they live in a land of
misguided hopeless souls. Freeman has such brevity that is really just
amazing to watch him. Pitt on the other hand does a very respectful job
of being the young cop with ambitions of saving the world and has
places well across from the jaded Freeman. Spacey of course played his
character spot on and when he gives himself on is probably the
creepiest thing in the movie because at this point you have no idea
what he is up to, but you know that is is in total control of the
situation. I love how Fincher choose to keep the city raining and lit most of the
scenes to emphasize the dark. This matched the darkness nature of the
film perfectly. The fact that the last scenes was in the bright day
light just made it that more shocking. One can tell that a lot of care
when into presenting the world to the viewer in a way that matched the
themes perfectly.I think that car ride provided a great forum for us to get to know John
Doe even though we only spend a few minutes we seems to know him so
well. One can see Mills going down hill and is losing his footing on
the moral high ground. It is extremely well played and I love how
Summerset comes off as being a match for him. In a way I see Summerset
and Doe as being similar, with the main difference of Doe being crazy. I think this is an extremely well done and smart entry of crime dramas
that really flips some of the conventions in a way that can be
surprising. The fact that they do not catch the killer, but the killer
turns himself in and that fact that the cops lose. They do not save
anyone's lives and they fall into the trap that Doe set up for them. I
very much enjoyed this film and it was paced and put together in a very
effective way.

******
16 August 2009
10
This movie was flat-out amazing. It was gripping, fascinating, and not
only that but it makes you question your own morality. Brad Pitt plays
David Mills, a young detective who thinks he knows it all. Morgan
Freeman plays the seasoned detective who knows the way of the world.
These two unalike people are thrust together when a series of murders,
that are taking after the 7 sins, take place. What occurs next is a
series of gruesome murders that people who have a weak stomach probably
shouldn't see. I'll give one example...the "eat till he burst guy".
Pretty revolting. The two actors are amazing, as they usually are. But the real gem of
the movie is Kevin Spacey, although he didn't show up until the end.
Mills is convinced, as most normal people would be, that John Doe, the
killer, is just "crazy". But as the movie progresses and then you
finally hear from the killer at the end, he is more than that. He
really isn't "crazy" per say. He knows what he's doing and he's quite
good at it. He is evil and yet he thinks he's doing this world a favor
by killing some of the scum of the face of this planet. As I watched
the scene in which Spacey describes the people he killed, I had a
fleeting moment in which I thought, well maybe he was. And that's what this movie wanted you to think. But this guy was pure
evil...the definition of a psychopath. The end of the movie is both
shocking and angering. Now I'm not going to give away the ending to
those who haven't seen it, but for those who have seen it, would you
have done what Brad Pitt did? Thjis movie doesn't have a happy ending
or leave you with all the answers. It leaves you something to discuss
and think about. That's why this movie is amazing.

******
13 November 2007
9
Freeman's performance in this is everything you could want from an
actor, so little of which is present these days in Hollywood films. He
displays patience, subtlety, and control. Without sacrificing
authority, power or charisma. It is a textbook performance. In fact,
I'm not so sure it's a performance as that it's something he can do on
demand in just about any situation. His part is well written to be
sure, but it the hands of someone else, it could have been much less
than what it is here.The movie itself, apart from his performance, is one of the best of
this genre, if not the ideal. Gore is implied for the most part, as
opposed to splashed onto the camera. The horror is very real, and is
effective as to be unsettling in parts, in large part because it feels
as though is could easily be possible. A glimpse into man at his worst.Spacey's bad guy is someone whose motives are pure, so much so that
even when the movie could have almost had us emphasizing with him on
some of the choices of his victims (though definitely not this methods
of punishment) he stays the course, and we realize that no one if safe
from what he perceives as the only form of truth and justice, his own.
There are people out there like him, thankfully the vast majority of
them keep their thoughts on these matters from progressing to action.If there is one scene that you wish could have been extended, it is the
conversation between Freeman and Spacey in the car. And if I had a
second choice it would be the scene at the bar between Freeman and
Pitt.Pitt's not bad in a role that doesn't have a lot of meat to it. Almost
any of the developed parts are good, even smaller roles like Richard
Roundtree's or the detective's boss.Great film, not just because of Freeman's performance, but it is a
showpiece, without being showy. Can't remember the last time I saw that
in a Hollywood film.

******
12 April 2007
9
I just watched Se7en, which stars Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt and Kevin
Spacey and I was gob smacked at how well crafted the storyline and
ending are. Somerset (Freeman) and Mills (Pitt) are searching for a man
only known as 'John Doe,' he is killing and preaching at the same time
by killing people based on the Seven Deadly sins, Sloth, Gluttony,
Envy, Greed, Lust, Wrath and Pride as his motive. Somerset takes this
case as his last one before he calls it the quits and Mills is a new
detective, who doesn't usually listen to the much more experienced
Somerset. The story unfolds with the detectives trying to track this
killer after he is toying with the police leaving no fingerprints and
hardly any clues of any kind. I won't tell anymore but there's not many
dull moments and the ending is like no other I've ever seen. From the
director of Fight Club another great storyline and twist at the end,
even though Fight Club is exceedingly more violent than Se7en, they are
both made the same way and both have such great acting and story lines,
that this movie cannot be passed over. Very Highly recommended and I
would give it 9/10.

******
8 November 2006
7
Introduction Eleven years after it's release I finally got around to
seeing se7en. The movie started of well. The characters are believable,
the story is intriguing and thought provoking. But then I wonder. Why is the FBI able to find that one killer amidst all the thousands
upon thousands who borrow books in the library, even if the selection
of books is rather exotic? Why does the killer not buy the books? He
has money enough to spare and the books are easy to buy in any store?
And thus he is better to erase his steps. And why does the killer name
himself John Doe, which is an obvious fake name, but then is silly
enough to also register his real address with the library with the
obvious result that the police will find him?The library records are actually a key element in the story. The police
is able to track down the killer because the FBI is able to find the
address of the killer in the library register. Indeed there isn't even
a list: they get the address and go straight to the killers house.There is more of this in the movie, but nothing is more far fetched
than the end. The entire ending rest on the assumption that Mills does
not once check upon his wife. During the many hours in which the
process of justice grinds, not once does Mills call his wife. Maybe to
say hello or to tell her he might be late. And thus at the end the
delivery man at exact seven o'clock delivers the gruesome box in the
middle of nowhere that causes Mills to shoot the killers and thus
making it seven kills in all. There is no way the killer could have
known the box had to be there at seven o'clock as he had no control
over Mills being there. It is to much of a coincidence.My conclusion It's a nice movie and might have been a good film if the
story elements had been stronger. The movie is too much based on
coincidences and contrived elements and this is a pity.

******
22 April 2006
9
I can't praise this film long enough. Never has a film thrilled me, put
me in more suspense and just entertained me as Seven did.Great acting, amazing and original story, and what a climax. From the
director of Fight Club comes this great tale about two detectives
following these trails of strange murders.I must warn you though, this movie is not for the weak or easily
disturbed.All I can say is that if you have not seen it, you must, it is your
duty to because it was blow your mind, challenge your intellect and
just have a greater understanding of life.

******
22 January 2006
7
Nicely plotted and well-written script, suitably ominous score, good
performances all around.I think the seven deadly sins were codified in the sixth century by
Pope Gregory I. Keven Spacey, as the serial killer (there seems to be
no end of them), takes them seriously enough to track down good
examples of each and execute them according to their cardinal traits.
For instance, he ties an obese man into a chair and force feeds him
until he is the size of the puking man in "Monty Python's Meaning of
Life," and then kicks him until he explodes. The older I get and the
more the flesh sags, the less amusing I find this concept.The murders, by the way, are pretty disgusting, what with the darkness
lighted by tiny candles, the flies buzzing around, the mutilated and
decomposing corpses, the severed body parts, and all that.Particularly horrifying are the last two of the seven killings. One
involves an excess of envy and the other of anger. I don't want to give
much more away, but they involve Spacey himself and one of the two
detectives (Freeman and Pitt). The incident is a most unexpected twist,
and a plausible one. That's what I meant in describing this as well
written. As an unintended bonus there is an exchange between the
detectives, in 1995. Freeman has just bribed an FBI man for a list of
library records. Certain books are flagged and when someone checks them
out, the users records are fed into the Bureau's data base. Pitt: "Wait
a minute now. How is this legal?" Freeman: "Legal, illegal, these terms
don't apply here."Freeman and Pitt are the usual mismatched cops at the beginning, but
this is not a mismatched buddy movie by any means. Half-way through and
their few differences are resolved in a reasonable manner.Pitt doesn't do a bad job, and Morgan Freeman is outstanding as usual.
What a fine actor he is. Ordinarily he's rock solid but then watch him
as a murderous pimp in "Street Smart" to get an idea of his range. And
the movie simply would not be all that it is without Gwyneth Paltrow.
She is a gangly blond with features so delicate that a viewer gets the
impression that the slightest kiss on her cheek might leave a memorial
bruise. That's important, for reasons I won't go into. The scene in the
cafe in which she helplessly asks a helpless Freeman for advice about
her secret pregnancy could have been either cloying or unnecessary if
it had been written clumsily, but it was not. We can feel the actors
meshing like gear wheels during the conversation.If I had a problem it was with the lights. I wish someone had bothered
to turn them on. Okay, a murder scene in a shabby apartment could be
dark. But why is the PRECINCT STATION as gloomy as a Bohemian bar? I
realize this underlighting is fashionable -- damn "The X Files" -- but
it's getting tiresome to see people running around during action scenes
carrying flashlights. While I'm complaining I might as well mention
that the score, though brooding, is loud, obtrusive, and generic. Under
the opening credits it passes through the obtrusive barrier into
irritating, as are the credits themselves, which are shaky and resemble
the deliberate but sloppy scrawl of a kindergardener. Every scene is
underlined by edgy music except one in which Freeman pokes around in
the library, when the composer uses the rapturous Air on a G String,
the most accessible piece Bach ever wrote. The very well done library
scene reminded me of college one hundred years ago when students had
ideals. During exam week the student radio station would play nothing
but suitable classical music. You could walk across the quad and hear
Bach coming from two dozen open windows, a 24.0 sound system.That's a minor carp though. The is a genuinely good example of the
genre. Another thriller about a serial murderer, but a good example
still.

******
26 February 2005
8
My opinion: This was a terrificly written and acted film. I especially
liked the ending and how Pitt dealt with the contrasting emotions,
especially when he first tried to shoot Doe, how his face cringed up.
The lighting was good and the editing was tight. I was especially glad
to see that the director didn't jump for the opportunity to show Brad
Pitt as all sexy when he didn't' need to be. However, it just doesn't
seem to me that Se7en should be the #49 movie of all time as ranked by
movie goers. In the top 250? Yes, sure. But #49? I think that the star
cast and good story overall are having a little too much influence in
the votes. I can't really put my finger on it; part of it was that the
last few deaths sped up really fast, like the beauty queen, and then
the fact that they only drove one hour out of the city and they were in
a desert took the sparkle of the film away from me. The plot's
original, I'll give it that, but when you think about it, it seems a
little cliché. A guy kills people when they commit one of the 7 deadly
sins. death 1....death 2....death 3.... death 4....death 5....now a
little twist is death 6...then the finale is death 7...(I'm thinking of
why it didn't' strike me as worthy as #49 as i go) And John Doe's 6th
murder that will supposedly make people ponder it for years wasn't all
that crazy...he killed someone close to Pitt's character. eh...good
script. good cast. Better than stuff like "Requiem for a Dream", "Kill
Bill", "Reservior Dogs", "Being John Malkovich"? I don't agree. Again,
it's my opinion. Maybe others would like to agree and add to why I
believe it's not #49, maybe others will defend what I've said, I'd like
to hear both sides. It's a good movie, nonetheless.

******
17 January 2005
10
Se7en is a film that is often compared to Silence Of The Lambs. Both
films involve serial killers. In both films the serial killers have a
method of choosing their next victim, and both films are dark and
disturbing. In my opinion, they're both good and they're different
types of films. (Spoilers) Se7en starts out with detective David Mills(Brad Pitt) and
Detective Lt. William Somerset(Morgan Freeman) investigating the murder
of an obese man. He had been dead for a while and had the word gluttony
written on the floor of his apartment. The next day there is another
murder with the name of the second sin written on the floor. This is
when the detectives figure out there is a serial killer on the loose,
and he is picking his victims according to the seven sins. In the rest
of the film Mills and Somerset are on a path ridden with danger and
suspense in trying to track down the killer. I don't want to spoil
anything else for you.The killings that the detectives come across are grisly and disturbing.
Se7en definitely has a long lasting effect on you for a long time after
you see it. The film is well created as it sends you into the deepest
darkest corners of the human mind and never goes soft. The climax is
the best part as it keeps you interested and on the edge of your seat,
and when you find out what happens you'll be in for a shock. I highly
recommend se7en, but only if your stomach can handle it.

******
11 December 1999
7

"All this, and he still has Hell to look forward too...." Oh, man. Whoever
wrote this movie is one sick puppy! A BRILLIANT plot where the murderer
takes out his victims by way of each of the seven deadly sins. This movie
makes you want to crack open a bible and hop the God forgives you for taking
part in this EXCELLENT spooky movie. Textbook definition of a psychological
thriller from start to finish.

******
3 October 2005
6
Is Morgan Freeman our greatest living actor? He may in fact be, and his
mere presence here (solid, noble, and pure) is reassuring, but even
Freeman can't overcome the usual
cat-&-mouse/killer-toying-with-detectives stew that "Se7en" serves up.
There's a serial killer loose in rainy New York City, and as he mounts
his seven grisly crime scenes--modeled after the Seven Deadly Sins--he
quickly becomes aware of the two homicide detectives on the case and is
enamored of their drive and determination. Most of this is left vague
and unexplained; we learn precious little about the psychopath involved
except that he's highly literate, educated, with too much strict
religion in his background. This is all hoary police-movie fodder, as
is the set-up with the detectives: the wise codger about to retire and
his cocky new partner with the short fuse. The film mounts the tension
well, with staccato glimpses of corpses and gore, but can't escape a
fatigued sense of deja vu (I thought mostly of "The Silence of the
Lambs"). Brad Pitt gets off to an awkward, hesitant start in his role,
but does improve. Freeman is sensational; whether throwing his knife at
a dartboard or studying up on literature at the library, he is focused
and gripping. The grimy, lust-and-death soaked atmosphere is wallowed
in (it's the Big Apple as a Gothic Hell), and certainly it is palpable
and captured successfully, but completely off-putting. Words written in
blood on the walls...it's too much like real-life crime scenes, and
screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker isn't clever enough to distract us or
cunning enough to help us distinguish the difference (the killer does
leave clues, but they are quickly solved). The narrative is a mix of
derivative movie-thriller ideas and new-fangled ways of making the
viewer as squeamish as possible--it's the old pulling-wings-off-flies
number, but on a larger sick-making scale. The film is predictably
gruesome, less predictably formula-bound. **1/2 from ****

******
24 February 2011
1
I always take the trouble to write an IMDb review when I think a movie
is too horrible to watch - the good ones, I am sure people can find
them without me.This movie is rotten to the core. It does not entertain a sensible
mind. It does not uplift. It has not humor, no fun, no moral. It is
morbid, depressing, meaningless. But it is not meaningless like, say,
life. Life's meaninglessness has a depth, it is somber. The
meaninglessness of this movie is like a small child killing a white
rabbit - wanton, senseless, rabid.What did you learn from this movie? What did you enjoy? What moved you?
Nothing unless you admire gore and violence per se. Yes, the acting,
especially of KS, was superb. But I do not see any glamor in superbly
acting the part of a mad killer. The mad killer can do it himself.Anyways, I am rambling; but after a movie like this, you are at a loss
for words. You wonder what kind of people spend a million dollar on a
movie like this. You wonder what kind of people go to watch it. You
wonder, most of all, how someone can enjoy spending money on this
rather than giving some money to, whoever.

******
29 January 2005
7
Se7en was a very well done movie. It keeps you on the edge of your seat
until the end, but it also does something else very well: disturbs you.
I've seen quite a few nasty movies, but the degree to which torture
occurred and was portrayed in this movie was bone-chilling. It might
very well be Brad Pitt's best performance, in my opinion, and Freeman
is a great partner for him. From the putrid apartments to the sunny,
desolate field, this movie captures a lot of emotion, but mostly one-
darkness. The city it is set in (which is never mentioned by name) is
ridiculously dreary, very well done, and it feels like the killer owns
them detectives from beginning to end. How graphic some of it is
portrayed is excessive, though. This is balanced by the brilliance of
some of the little details (Air Fresheners, for one) and great
suspense. Two of the killings in particular are graphic, and those who
have seen the movie can probably guess. But I recommend this movie. But
not at night with no lights alone. Trust me.

******
6 March 2016
4
Hello! 'Seven' was watched post listening to numerous positive
recommendations. But, upon watching it, I realized that this is a movie
which is highly overrated but seem to be not up to expectation. Brad
Pitt and Morgan Freeman played their part genuinely though the
intensity of the serial crime happened in the movie was not catchy and
influential. I take this movie is far away from reality! At times the
movie seemed to be boring and may cause eye lids to fall down. I never
watched a crime story with least thrilling vibe'. The justification
seen behind each murders sounded childish. I don;t suggest you to watch
this movie rather can be used a sleeping pills!

******
21 February 2016
10
I may not be a Film expert, but as a new English Learner(at pre -
intermediate level) when I was 11; I first saw this movie and with the
help of adolescence I was touched by it(Not like your uncle did to
you).Morgan Freeman was always my man, but with Brad they made and awesome
couple. I watched every Freeman Movie there is and I have to say after
Shawshank, This is definitely the second movie.If you are a simple movie watcher, not reading between the lines, do
not bother. Themes between those lines are epic and so clear that it
moves. well at least it moved me.Have Fun all;

******
21 January 2016
8
Often cited as the quintessential detective murder mystery movie, Se7en
(remember when putting numbers in your titles was cool?) is the movie
that put Fincher on the map at a time where he was known as the guy who
ruined the Alien franchise. I must admit, I found the concept of a killer going around basing
crimes off of the seven deadly sins to be better than it was actually
executed in the film, but that doesn't take away from the fact that
this smooth urban thriller remains one of the freakiest of its kind in
Hollywood. The cinematography is immensely captivating, drawing you
into this depressing and gloomy unnamed town in which our two cops Brad
Pitt and Morgan Freeman track down the unhinged killer Kevin Spacey.
The acting from the main duo is serviceable whilst Spacey is, as he
always was in the 90's, exceptional. You have to give Fincher credit with his ballsy endings, even if it
doesn't quite pay off all the way such as in Gone Girl and The Game. In
this film, however, you're left thinking about the ending for quite
some time, and it eventually dawns on you that, yes, the baddie won in
this one. After a gripping climax out in a field in the middle of
nowhere, the fiendish John Doe plays out all his cards after a half
hour where we wonder just what the guy is up to when he gives himself
up unexpectedly.Best Scene: There's a number of memorable instances (that bloody jump
scare with the dude in the bed!) but my favourite part was when Spacey
walks straight into the police station and hands himself to the
officers.

******
20 January 2016
9
Bleak, gruesome, brilliant. These are a few of words that come to mind
when I think of David Fincher's 'Se7en'. In lesser hands the concept
(two detectives on the trail of a serial killer committing stylized
murders based on the Seven Deadly Sins) could've been nothing more than
a gimmick, but here it's a deftly crafted game of cat and mouse that
pulls you in, even as it makes you want to turn away. But that said,
it's not what I'd call an exceptionally graphic film. More is implied
than is shown, and we fill in the blank spots in our mind's eye. A far
more effective technique than the cheap gross-out route.The cast is excellent, lead by the inimitable Morgan Freeman. I can't
believe Freeman didn't get an Oscar nod. I would cite genre bias, but
then I think of 'Silence Of The Lambs' getting everything but the
kitchen sink just a few years before at the Academy Awards. Co-star
Brad Pitt is no Freeman, but he more than holds his own with the
veteran here and the two have an exceptional chemistry. The killer,
whose identity I will not reveal lest I ruin the surprise for those who
may not have seen it, is brilliant in his few brief scenes.It's not a pleasant film, and at the risk of spoiling it, there is no
happy ending, but it's a filmmaking and storytelling clinic, and one
Hell of a good movie.

******
11 January 2016
9
This is very engaging and super atmospheric film that will grab your
attention from beginning to end. It's a classic
detective/crime/mystery/thriller that was movie everyone was going to
Blockbuster to rent out when it first came out on video. It's also
David Fincher's breakout film that really made him stand out as a
director. The cinematography, the visuals and the eerie atmospheric
environment plays a key role when showing the plot unfold. Mainly
because the grisly and nasty environment that gives off the aroma of
sweat and decay really plays a key part in the story. It's one of the
key elements that makes this film stand out. Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman makes a excellent duo that actually compliment each other, not
really verbally but it works throughout this film. One is the brash and
hot blooded detective with the mouth, David Mills (Brad Pitt) and the
other is a wise and yet ignorant detective Somerset Played by Morgan
Freeman. Brad Pitt was on his rising to super stardom stage and his
role in this really helped him with the boost. The plot is about the
duo detective going after and track down the serial killer that is on a
pattern when it comes to the 7 deadly sins. This film is simply
intriguing from start to finish, especially when this movie came out.
Cause there wasn't a film like this before, as far as I know. And many
films to come will copy or emulate certain elements from this film.
Even video games like "Silent Hill" was probably inspired by this film,
especially when it comes to the environment. This is a raw film that is
detailed and focused. Just about every scene has a point and has
connections when it comes to the core of the story one way or another.
The way it delves into the psychological aspects and perspectives is
Watching this film is like watching a great detective graphic novel
come to life on screen with superb execution. Add a stand out ending
and you have yourself a detective film that is a masterpiece. 9/10

******
28 December 2015
9
One of the best thrillers I've ever seen. It's too bad that most of
this genre movies aren't produced anymore during the last years. Best
thrillers, in my opinion, are the ones from the '90s and early 2000.
Why's that? Aren't there any good screenwriters? It's hard to find now
days a good thriller that can blow you up. Most of them are at a 6
average mark or below and quite short (not so many over 1h30 min).
Se7en has, almost everything that a thriller needs: action, emotion,
curiosity, a good screenplay, good actors, unpredictable end and it is
not a short movie. We have here a young Brad Pitt, that plays very
well, a mid age Morgan Freeman as his mentor and a "sick" Kevin Spacey
(in a good way, of course).

******
28 December 2015
10
Gluttony, greed, sloth, wrath, pride, lust, envy: in other words, all
known mortal sins. They became the basis for the movie "Seven".At first glance it seems that stretched for two hours reel of film,
tells the story of the investigation of offenses (without a lot of
action scenes, to which the audience already accustomed to an endless
number of militants) have to be boring and depressing. Frankly, the
first ten minutes it was. But further interest grew with every minute,
and I realized that I more and more like film.Action is slow, everything goes on as usual and there is not a single
superfluous scene, which is not related to the plot. The viewer watches
the protagonists completely trust them, and they, in turn, slowly
trying to come to a logical conclusion and bring it to mind.For the role of an experienced detective William Somerset and his
young, ambitious team-mate David Mills took two real professionals in
their field - Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt. However, psychologically,
if you can call it that, it is none other than a maniac John Doe (Kevin
Spacey). Why are we in some degree can not blame him? The viewer
realizes that the offender commits a brutal murder, but the victim is
so disgusting in his sins, he does not seem to exhibit them regret.In fact, if you speculate on the film, you realize that it bears a
great life meaning. Especially it is necessary to pay tribute to the
last episode, denouement: everything becomes clear, and that's when we
really hurts to know that the man - the king of creation - so simply
obey the devil.With regard to the comparison of the film with the "Silence of the
Lambs", or more accurately compare the two actors who played the role
of a ruthless killer, let this and many will not agree, but Kevin
Spacey did his job not worse than Anthony Hopkins, although the hero
Spacey has been assigned so long as to the role of the lecturer.In short, that's that, and definitely worth a movie cinema - worthy,
offered to a competent, but still with good actors.Bravo David Fincher and everyone who worked on the creation of this
painting!

******
24 November 2015
9
One of the best I've ever seen.The movie had that special thing to keep
the audience glued.Although we saw that Tracy's death coming from a
long way.Tracy's death was necessary thing to keep the story alive
until the very end.Writer and director had the perfect combination.This
movie explains how cops work hard for their lives and other
people.Seven is not one for the squeamish; director David Fincher not
holding anything back when showing the victims of the gruesome crimes,
but that doesn't prevent the film from creating a gripping narrative.
Pitt and Freeman are excellent as always and help to create and
fantastic atmosphere that builds to create a shocking finale. One of
the cleverest thrillers of the last twenty years Se7en would make an
excellent addition to any movie collection.

******
19 November 2015
9
If you haven't seen Se7en yet and you like thrillers or David Fincher,
then I'm adamantly suggest that you should. For one it has amazing
performances by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt, both bringing
extraordinary life to these characters, with a career making
performance by Kevin Spacey. The cinematography is planned out in
detail, shot by shot, to create a piece of art. The lighting and sets
reflect the nature of the city and the murders that take place. But
possibly the best thing about the movie is its rare use of guns. This
movie achieves so much brutality without the viewer actually seeing the
violence, which will haunt you forever. To summarise, excellent
characters, cinematography, sets, lighting and direction to create one
of the best neo-noir's since Chinatown.

******
10 November 2015
10
I think for me , was a film like a coffee.Hard and sensual .Very good
film .Sometimes I dreaming since I saw this film .I like to think it's
good to dream. ,,Se7en '' says a lot . For beginners of detectives , in
this film you MOST learn much things Many readers are under the
impression the life is too easy.The replicas are well built
,surprisingly stay . You've got lot in this way .I believe , that is
for me a favor , in the time where i want something .I remember the
time when my mother says ,, You are so amazing the way when you relate
what you . Brad Pitt it's my favourite actor from all others .My review
is very honest and realistic .

******
1 November 2015
10
This film hands down has to be one of the most visually shocking and
thought provoking film I've seen in years. The overall performance of all the actors is superb. Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt just have such a brilliant synergy. Kevin Spacey and the
short time he does have in this film just creeps you to the core. ** SPOILER **The way the sins are portrayed are well thought out and eerie to the
core. Especially the Gluttony. The final scene could not have been executed any better than it was.
The overall feeling, atmosphere, and buildup from Kevin was out of this
world. I truly wanted to kill him myself too. I don't really think
anybody could have played these roles better than who was picked.

******
15 October 2015
5
Se7en is not a bad movie but it's a big let down except the performance
of Kevin Spacey and that ending there's nothing more good about it. The
jokes that the characters try to throw in some of the scenes are just
awful and for sure not funny Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman can't save
the film that David Fincher (Alien3) directed the cast is good the
acting is meh except Spacey and the ending is a huge WTF that shows
that the Bad guys can truly win other than that Se7en is a 2 hour film
that is boring to the bone if you want to see a great serial killer
film go watch Zodiac that is one hell of a film. Final Verdict 5 out of
10 nothing more nothing less.

******
24 September 2015
10
David Fincher has made remarkable films throughout his career, but
'Se7en' finds him at his FINEST! This neo-noir psychological-thriller,
is an astonishing piece of Cinema. I was mesmerized. 'Se7en' Synopsis: Two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial
killer who uses the seven deadly sins as his modus operandi.'Se7en' is a Masterstroke from start to end. A dark, moody, violent &
utterly gripping story, that keeps you at the edge-of-your-seat. There
isn't a single dull moment in this blockbuster, in fact, the tale gets
more & more intriguing as it progresses.Andrew Kevin Walker's Screenplay is Ace. It's a spine-chilling tale
about two heroes out to get a psychotic killer. The Writing grips you
from the moment it begins & refuses to let you go. Fincher's Direction
is incredible. The way he has handled this twisted story, deserves an
ovation. Darius Khondji's Cinematography is flawlessly done. Richard
Francis-Bruce's Editing is tight. Action-Sequences are mind-blowing.
Howard Shore's Score is perfect.Performance-Wise: Morgan Freeman is at his understated best. The
Oscar-Winning Legend delivers a master-class act here, that ranks
amongst his finest to date. Brad Pitt is in terrific form, adding depth
& anger to his part. Kevin Spacey is loathsome to the core in his
creepy portrayal of the wicked villain. Gwyneth Paltrow is wonderful in
a brief, yet important role. On the whole, 'Se7en' is a film to die for. Two Big Thumbs Up!

******
23 September 2015
3
What is the fuss about this film? Yes it has good acting (at times),
atmospheric scenes and well done dead bodies. But I would not
understand someone wanting to view this more than once.Basically it is a mystery story of a generic serial killer that
eventually owes up to his killings (well that was easy mystery to
solve) then kills the wife of a detective who shoots and kills him in
anger. Am I missing something? Morgan retires, serial killer dead, Brad
lives on depressed without a wife. OK.The serial killer, killed people he thought were disgusting so he
thought in his mind he was doing a good thing (yeah that is just like
any serial killer, not original) then he ended up dying and the
detective lost his wife who was pregnant. BIG WOOP.Yeah its well told story but I just don't see it being so clever that
it is a best movie of all time and certainly doesn't warrant any more
viewings in my eyes.I don't know I just didn't find myself caring much for Brad Pitts
character or his wife. So I didn't really care at the end when you find
out she was killed.It felt out of place when they randomly started laughing round the
dinner table, I was looking around thinking "Really?" why are they
laughing hysterically?Cringeworthy stuff in the cafe when the wife tells morgan she is
pregnant, morgan says "I got to go" she says "Morgan...................
thankyou" AHHH thankyou, I just rolled my eyes seriously. (forgotten
Freemans character name sorry)Overrated actually boring/predictable.Off the top of my head I mean this isn't even my favourite film I have
just watched it recently is all, something like "Shutter Island" leaves
you thinking and is just overall a better film hands down in my
opinion. This film you get to the end, bored thinking OK. Fight Club
another GOOD film with twists, clever and real top film. Se7en not in
my eyes.

******
23 September 2015
9
Se7en is a true classic. Upon release people already knew that this
movie was going to be a classic and would be seen for decades to come.
With the two Oscar-winning actors Morgan freeman as detective Someset
and Brad Pitt as detective Mills in the lead this movie provides a
energetic and true acting. Se7en is about a reckless serial killer
killing "innocent" people related to the seven deadly sins of
Christianity. Detective Somerset and Mills are put to on the case, but
they're soon to know that the serial killer has a plan for them both.
This movie is without a doubt a cult classic film. Because of its
unique camera angels and editing as well as its quite absurd ending. It
does make you think about the lifestyle that we are living in.
Therefore i give this movie a solid 9/10!

******
15 September 2015
7
In America, one day, a dead man is found in an unusual style. He is
surely obesity, and the reason for his death is that he is forced to
keep eating food. Near the dead body, there is a message from him,
saying "GLUTTONY". Then, two detectives stand to solve the incident,
but it doesn't end. Similar murders happens repeatedly, and the victims
always tell them some messages by writing. It has seven crimes
according to the title, but how will it go to the end? I thought it is
very shocking, and has a lot of scenes that makes us surprising. For
me, I can watch, because I like that kind of mystery, but some people
might be struggle watching it. Anyway, I am surprised by its end!

******
15 September 2015
6
Somerset is a detective, who is going to finish his career in a week
and he works with a new face, Mills. They investigate a series of
mysterious murder and find a clue. A criminal seems to kill people who
act based on seven deadly sins, wrath, greed, sloth, pride, lust, envy
and gluttony. Somerset and Mills use a record of library and identify a
suspect. When they go to the suspect's house, the suspect appears by
chance. The suspect runs away and This is a suspenseful movie and
includes a little scary scenes. The director is David Fincher and I
think many of his works ends unhappily. Actually I do not prefer this
kind of ending so this movie is not so recommendable for people like
me. However, as a suspenseful movie, it is so thrilling and enjoyable.

******
10 September 2015
9
I'll get my main two complaints out of the way first (the ones that
denied the 10). The pace is somewhat slow, in fact I felt some scenes
were disposable. There is also a weird design choice where every so
often the frame rate decreases, I felt that this detracts from the film
rather than helps it (it might just be my friend's DVD, who knows).
Besides those two flaws, Se7en is a classic, and a must see for all
fans of mystery and suspense. The first gun shot, in my view, was one
of the scariest things I've seen in a movie besides the horror genre.
The ending is gut wrenching and has a sense of irony where I'd normally
laugh, if I wasn't mentally pulverized. While its flaws are apparent,
its not to deny that Se7en's great acting (Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman)
pitch perfect direction (David Fincher) and relentless psychological
tension makes it an excellent movie. A must see!

******
30 August 2015
9
This is one of the most horrifying movies ever made. But it doesn't
just consist of violence. It has amazing performances, tense scenes,
and a nail-biting finale which you won't ever forget for a very long
time.2 detectives try to hunt down a psychopath as he kills people in
grotesque ways based around the seven deadly sins.This movie contains several memorable scenes which have the tendency to
knock you off guard. Besides the ending, another amazing scene is when
they investigate the sloth victim. The gore is amazing but we get the
jumpscare of our lives in it. I'm not going to spoil it though because
otherwise I'll ruin it. Many people will agree that the ending is the
best part by far. It is tense and suspenseful and it is completely
unpredictable. It is one of the most memorable movie endings by far.Also, the acting is amazing also. In my opinion, Kevin Spacey and Brad
Pitt both give one of their best performances yet. Morgan Freeman's
also gives as amazing performance and it is rivaled only by his
performance in The Shawshank Redemption.The acting worked real well because this movie did a great job with its
choice of casting. Fincher probably looked at previous works of
Freeman, Pitt, and Spacey's roles and he knew that they would be
perfect for these roles and his casting choices really paid off.As much I want to give this movie a 10, there are a few scenes which I
felt carried on a bit too long or were more slower-paced than the rest
of the movie. There weren't too much that bothered me too an extensive
degree though. However, I do think that this would've been a
masterpiece if it weren't for those few scenes.Nobody thought much of Fincher when he directed Alien 3 and he was
originally dismissed as just another style over substance director.
However, he looked at the mistakes that movie made and he showed
moviegoers with this movie that he is a talented director. Since then,
he has made several more amazing movies (especially Fight Club) and he
is now one of the more appreciated directors working today.In conclusion, Se7en is a near perfect movie. Sure, the pacing can be a
bit slow at times but this is still an amazing crime drama and I think
that this is one of the best crime movies ever made. It will keep you
on the edge of your seat the entire time and it contains one of the
best finales to a movie ever. I understand why some people disliked
this movie but none of the reasons affect my opinion of this movie and
I think that it is a must-watch for everyone as long as you don't mind
realistic violence and gore.

******
9 August 2015
9
Seven, also known as Se7en, is headlined by a brilliant all-star cast,
which include Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, R. Lee Emery and Gwyneth
Paltrow. The cast being near perfect, would not have been together if
it wasn't for the stellar script and lead director, David Lynch. David
Lynch film-making was ruthless creating a dismal atmosphere, always
raining, with crummy settings in dark places.The film probably considered by most a thriller crosses the line into
the horror genre with chilling scenes and grotesque images. The
suspense is top-notch having a first time viewer on the edge of their
seat from the start. When the film does end, the viewer is left with a
shocking twist, stirring up a few emotions that aren't often felt when
watching a movie. Viewers may bicker if Se7en can be labeled as a
horror film or not but what they won't argue is the greatness, being
the film itself.

******
14 July 2015
8
I'm a big fan of Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman and Thrillers! So this movie
was a win win over all. Both Pitt and Freeman excel in their
performance in finding this notorious and psychopathic serial killer
who plays hideous games with the force through the deadly seven sins.
The ending is blood-tingling and overwhelmingly exciting and the
casting of the serial killer could not have been better suited. The
ultimate reveal (which happened over the phone for those who recognise
their voice) for me, was a very exciting moment, if not, the most
exciting moment in the film and this is where the pace picks up. I
recommend this movie highly for those who love a crime investigation
with disturbing and thrilling elements throughout.

******
12 July 2015
9
As I was watching Se7en, I was both shocked and fascinated, this movie
surely can be used as a mirror to other suspense films to show how they
should be made. The anxiety and apprehension grows along the film for
having such a captivating story, even if some scenes are very
disturbing to watch, you can't take your eyes off. Another big
contributor to make it more hypnotic is the soundtrack, when it's
needed does an incredible work to elevate even more the breathtaking
feeling. The director, David Fincher, did an amazing job in crafting
this movie, it's proved how talented he is and something noteworthy is
in some particular scenes, how they were shot regarding the style,
angles of the camera that make you feel like you're in the scene.The cast, both leading and supporting, did a marvelous work in
performing the characters. They're so consistent and believable, we
really have the chance to know the identity of every single one in
terms of dreams, emotions, regrets. Morgan Freeman plays an old
detective, Somerset, who is fed up with his detective's life, because
the city and the world as in general are too hateful, the apathy is
present in people's everyday life and he can't take any longer this.
He's methodic, pragmatic and due to his long career in the police, he's
very meticulous in a crime scene. Detective Mills is played by Brad
Pitt, different from Morgan Freeman's character is a young detective
with a lot of stamina, enthusiasm but he's reckless and very emotional
too. The contrast between the characters is pretty perceptible and is
very well explored to show a man already marked by a tough and cruel
world, Somerset, and other still untouched and a bit naive about the
cruelty of the society.The murder scenes are so realistic and disgusting, they really make you
feel uncomfortable and revulsion witnessing them and passing how sick
the serial killer is. The murderer, John Doe, is played by Kevin
Spacey. The tension drastically grows when he's speaking, his
performance succeeds in portraying a person mentally disordered, a
psychopath. No Doubt, John Doe after such a remarkable acting gained a
sit among the most famous psychopaths of the cinema.

******
11 July 2015
9
Those who try to punish Sinners are not Saints either of course. The
movie who was showing people things that are going wrong with our
society, is a showcase of Brad Pitt. Putting Morgan Freeman next to him
was working more than fine. But it's the mystery surrounding the who is
behind it all.The journey we take, with a conclusion that will leave you devastated
(even those who knew or were able to see where it was going) to say the
least. Fincher is showing he knows how to direct, edit and set the mood
for a film. This is as assured as it gets and one of the best thrillers
the 90s produced for the movie business. I won't go into the story, but
if you like suspense, you will be more than happy to watch this (some
scenes are tough to watch mind you!)

******
7 July 2015
9
se7en was a very unsettling and well made movie. though most of the
movie was conversation and could probably put many people to sleep, it
quickly picked up pace towards the end and surprised everybody. i
already knew the ending going in, yet i was still in shock. i think the
main goal of the movie was not to be super intriguing or well written,
and David fincher probably wasn't shooting to make a movie that would
be rewatched thousands of times by countless people, but a movie that
made a lasting impression on the thoughts of viewers. the goal seemed
to be to make people think about the world we live in, and how diverted
it is from God's original perspective. i will say that the acting was
very good, and even though brad pitt had some questionable moments, he
delivered a great performance where it was most needed. so did morgan
freeman, and kevin spacey in the few minutes he had. the only reasons
this got a 9 was 1) because it's a 2 hour movie, and while it was made
this way to ensure that people got the whole story and no plot holes
came up, it would've been a little less boring if it was shorter and 2)
because mills is somewhat of a typical, single minded character most of
the time, kind of a typical hotheaded cop.

******
1 July 2015
9
Never at one point in this whole movie can you take a solid breath. You
will always be on the edge of your seat on what is currently happening
and how it will eventually all tie together. At times it can even feel
depressing because of the sheer confusion the film enables you to feel.
It shows the power of determined insanity, and what it is capable of
doing. You actually began to empathize with with the main villain after
you see he is desperately not mentally healthy. Especially after we get
a glimpse of his living standards, without being able to fully
visualize him, we begin to imagine who,what,and why would be capable of
such evil. And eventually the twists just keep on coming.

******
21 June 2015
8
A good film, with a good plot. It is about a serial killer killing
people using the seven deadly sins. The first scene is set in a dark,
dank apartment. The murder being an overweight guy, who was tortured.
All the victims are tortured by this serial killer. The two detectives
try and get in the mind of the killer to track him down. At one point
they nearly catch him, but the killer escapes. I won't give too many
spoilers, but the ending is rather shocking. It doesn't have a happy
ending and the film is extremely violent throughout. It is for people
with a strong stomach and who don't mind violence. I thought the story
was good though, which is why I gave it 8 stars.

******
19 June 2015
9
SEVEN- MOVIE REVIEWSince the beginning of time, sins were acts that made us mortals,
vulnerable. The demeaning act we performed in the name of lust, greed,
incest, gluttony, is perhaps what defined the concept of heaven and
hell on earth itself. Detective William Somerset has seen it all and is
now giving up the hellish nightmare he lived his whole career when the
last case lands on his lap. A case where he is partnered with the newly
transferred David Mills, an arrogant cocksure guy. A case that would
yet again shake his rational solidified exterior. A case that would
made him question his basic knowledge about Right and Wrong. For here
is a serial killer who is trying to be God. Who is killing sinners in
the most horrifying manner! The sadistic killer meticulously plans his
execution corresponding to the seven deadly sins of gluttony, greed ,
sloth, wrath ,pride, lust and envy. The sinner and the punisher
unified. In the final pursuit of truth, the detectives themselves have
to pay a prize none of them anticipated. The movie makes us wonder
whether this world is in reality what it seems. A place to uphold the
dignity of life? Or in the bowels of earth, unnoticed by all, does he
whom we call devil walks in the holy garb teasing us about the
Apocalypse?

******
15 May 2015
9
Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is a wearied homicide detective. Mills (Brad
Pitt) worked hard to transfer to the troubled precinct. He's married to
Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow). There is a serial killer on the loose
delivering his sermon on the Seven Deadly Sins. Somerset is tired of
the city. Mills is eager to investigate.Director David Fincher has filled with beautiful darkness. It's more
than just the gruesome murders. It's the rain, the music score and the
grungy setting. Fincher has weaved together an artistic masterpiece.
Freeman is the perfect grizzled veteran. Brad Pitt is a terrific eager
newcomer. There are surprising comedy sprinkled in. The final twist is
simply cinematic history. The big line is awesome. Pitt delivers it
perfectly with so much heart aching pleading. Some do deride its
grotesque gloom but that's like complaining about a movie being too
funny or too exciting. This is suppose to be dark and it achieves it.

******
11 May 2015
9
I think the greatest strength of Se7en is its opening twenty minutes.
The first twenty minutes makes you think that you're in for a decent,
gritty, detective movie. But nothing worth the 250. It's sort of what
Summerset and Mills thinks they're getting into. They think that this
is going to be a hard case, but not scarring. They keep their heads
high and don't think much of it. But after those twenty minutes, it
becomes a tale of self worth, moral ambiguity, guilt and everything
that'd usually be fluff in any other movie, turned into a disturbing
look into what we can and have become as a species.The film is hard to write about because it does everything in a bad
buddy cop movie and makes it realistic. How would Mel Gibson and Danny
Glover function outside of the job? How would the world react to absurd
James Bond like plans? How would a basically criminal master mind make
his plans make sense? The film is like a satire that went all of the
way. It makes everything that'd be nonsense in any other film, and I
mean any other film, work. The dialogue works, the acting, the camera,
the story, the plan, the makeup, everything works. And the best part
is, you don't expect it to. By all means, this film should've been
awful, and it's brilliant.This the first time I'm truly recommending a movie. Unlike a lot of
good movies, this one you want to suggest to others. It's hard to
recommend something like The Good, the Bad, the Ugly or Citizen Kane
because of one reason or another. It's too long, some things don't make
sense, but Se7en is a film that's enjoyable and for reasons that can't
be explained. It's a watchable movie.The only problem is also the greatest strength. The first twenty
minutes are a bit, well, "slow" because they're necessary and without
it the film wouldn't work on an emotional or logical level. But, even
then, it so much more watchable than a lot of other first twenty
minutes. It's a "good movie" no matter what.If nothing else, everything about this film WORKS. What that means, I
still don't know. But it's a working movie and make of that what you
will. Please, watch this movie.

******
15 April 2015
8
Se7en's concept is inherently interesting: a serial killer who bases
his murders off of the seven deadly sins is notable enough (and
certainly opens the door for social commentary), while the characters
of Somerset and Mills are both clashing and easy to relate with in
their respective passion and persnickety meticulousness. There was no
doubt that following the two detectives hunt down John Does was going
to be a treat. But what Fincher does so beautifully here is surpass the
intrigue caused by the film's writing with pacing that escalates the
film's events from noteworthy on a base level to thrilling. It would have been so predictable and placid to simply follow each of
the seven murders like a trail of breadcrumbs, allowing the final
murder scene to be the murderer's reveal and the film's final
confrontation, but instead we're introduced to John Doe as a character
about halfway through the film. While Spacey himself doesn't get
screen-time until he turns himself in in the third act, Doe is
characterized through his ruthless pragmatism in immediately shooting
at the detectives when they discover his apartment (rather than try to
convince them that he's not their guy), which is later contrasted by
his decision to spare Mills' life: Doe was hell-bent on carrying
through with his plan, and the senseless killing of an officer would
only cloud the message his murders were supposed to send. Not to
mention the fact that Mills was destined to be his Wrath.On that point of Mills as Wrath, there is a plot hole to discuss, or at
the very least an incongruity. The fact that every other murder victim
seemed to be the result of over a year of planning (especially Sloth,
who was literally entrapped for over a year) does conflict with the
decision to make Mills Wrath after only knowing that he exists for a
few days. Doe is endlessly scheming and insanely careful (sanding off
his own fingerprints in the off chance that he's discovered), so why
would he put his plan into motion without hammering down a surefire
candidate for his Wrath? While Doe could have simply decided that he
was going to make whichever detective came after him his Wrath, it sort
of undermines the perfect casting of the passionate and unfocused Mills
as the man who would allow Doe to get the better of him. Looking back
at the scene where Mills kicks down Doe's door, would just any
detective have the gall to ignore the law so brusquely? Perhaps Somerset was supposed to be the unique one, a bastion of purity
and law-abiding good-nature (whose positivity has been hammered down
over time by the city's unwavering cruelty into apathy) in the sea of
brutish and violent officers like Mills and John C. McGinley's
California. If this was intended to be Doe's true message, a commentary
on the state of the police force, it seems a little weak. Granted, this is all based off of what could have just been a simple
oversight in order to deliver the most interesting twist ending
possible, but it muddles the impact of the film's ending after moving
past the surprise of it. In fact, this all really only came to me hours
after the film was over and I had been entranced by the atypical nature
of this thriller, so I see no reason to deduct serious marks because of
it. Se7en is one of the best told murder mysteries out there, and worth
a watch to fans of Fincher and detective thrillers alike.

******
28 March 2015
10
This film may be the best film I have ever watched. I was gripped from
start to finish and actually applauded when the credits started to
roll. The last time I did that, was when I watched 'The Sixth Sense'.
The writing is exceptional, the plot believable and the acting is of
the finest standard. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt make a great
partnership, even though it would seem unlikely, given their different
approaches to dealing with homicide cases.I would ask everyone to try not to second guess the outcome, but rather
follow the clues, as the detectives do.This is a fine film of the finest quality, with an ending to make your
hairs stand on end.

******
22 March 2015
8
this is of 1995 and yet scenes are so realistic . it seems they really
killed a person to show believable autopsy . Morgan freeman as about to
retire detective plays the part very well while brad Pitt is young guy
who partners him in last case . gwyneth paltrow looks charming . story
is depressing . notice how the credits roll at ending , then you will
know the idea of director . there is a chase scene in which cop is
alert & determined , committed to his duty , uncaring of his scars ,
yet evil sneaks up on him . the picture of life painted is quite bleak
. the limitations of law rule book are shown . the apathy of human
beings to each other makes situation grim and hopeless for viewer .

******
18 December 2014
8
Detective William Somerset's years as a homicide detective have come
down to their last seven days. He has closed many a case, and we meet
him as he encounters his last Young Detective David Mills has just
transferred to the local police force as Somerset's replacement, and he
shooting from his hip as soon as he walks into the first crime scene.
Local police have found an extremely obese man dead in his house, and
after a few minutes of investigating, the initially believed cause of
death, brain hemorrhage, is soon replaced with murder. The two
detectives conclude that the victim was forced to eat by his killer,
and then kicked in the stomach. This is but our first taste
(insensitive pun unintended) of the sick world that this story takes
place in. Within 24 hours of this, a top-notch attorney is found dead
in his office, and the word "greed" written into the carpet. On an
inquiry of the first victim's apartment, Somerset finds the word
"gluttony" carved into the wall behind the fridge. It does not take
Somerset and Mills to realize that this unknown killer is
systematically murdering his victims using the themes of the Seven
Deadly Sins, which are: gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, pride, wrath, and
envy. With the identity of the killer, and 5 more victims helplessly
unaware of what is to come, detectives Mills and Somerset must find
their man, and navigate the dark world that surrounds them. If the first murder wasn't an obvious clue, this is a dark movie. The
"gluttony" victim, and all of the other victims for that matter, is
brutally executed, and most of the grisly remains are what we see.
Though we do not see the murders themselves, there is little left to
the imagination. In this aspect, this luridly-themed film took me to my
limit, and perhaps past it. I would like to think that I can handle
just about anything that a camera can show, but this film proved me
terrifyingly wrong. Putting the murders aside, this film was very well
put together. Freeman does a great job of playing the "old vet"
archetype, and Brad Pitt as the young rookie is a well-cast role. Kevin
Spacey as our "John Doe" makes the antagonist utterly sickening, which
is exactly what director David Fincher wanted. From a cinematography
standpoint, the film was well-shot, and the editing (Oscar-nominated)
was very well done. I will leave you with a few key points that I feel
I must emphasize. As a devout Christian, I found the killer's system
very appalling, and I dearly hope that the public does not associate
this with any Christian value. In case you did not pick this up in my
previous notes, this film is DARK. I myself had to watch through my
fingers at times, and I have no doubt that any future viewer will as
well. The language in itself is R-rated, and it just adds to the
dreariness. In his review of this film, the late film critic Roger
Ebert began by saying " 'Seven,' a dark, grisly, horrifying and
intelligent thriller, may be too disturbing for many people, I imagine,
although if you can bear to watch, it you will see film-making of a
high order."The thrills did thrill, and the horrors did horrify, but I found it too
far exposed. Though Fincher is known for his dark portrayal of life
(Fight Club, I'm talking about you), this film took it past my
favorable level.www.sportsandcelluloid.blogspot.com

******
9 November 2014
8
Rather than concentrating on everything that is great about The
Godfather, a much easier way for me to judge its quality is on what is
bad about it. Almost every film has something that I don't like about
it, but I can honestly say that I wouldn't change anything about The
Godfather. There is nothing weak about it and nothing that stands out
as bad. That's why it gets ten out of ten.This is one of those films that made me wonder why I hadn't seen it
earlier. The acting from everyone involved is great, Marlon Brando
comes across perfectly as the head of the family, and James Caan and Al
Pacino are excellent as his sons. The soundtrack by Nino Rota is also
very memorable, bringing back memories of the film every time I hear
it. The plot has to be excellent for it to get ten out of ten, and it
is, it's far from predictable and the film is the definition of a great
epic.The film is pretty shocking in the way every death occurs almost
instantaneously, and as it spans ten years so many different things
happen and every minute of it is great entertainment. It's a well- made
and entertaining film that is only the first part of a trilogy, but it
stands on its own as a wonderful film in its own right. If you haven't
seen it, what are you waiting for? This was one acclaimed film that
didn't disappoint.

******
7 November 2014
8
Horror films often pertain to the supernatural, but what's even more
frightening is realism. David Fincher's 1995 thriller "Se7en" provides
a grounded tense race to catch a serial killer. Slow moving, gritty,
and disturbingly plausible, it's a great break from the sequel-ridden
franchises filled with villains who won't stay dead.In an unusual pairing, seasoned Detective William Somerset (Morgan
Freeman) teams with newcomer Det. David Mills (Brad Pitt). The two are
polar opposites: Somerset is near retirement, and hardened by his years
on the force, whereas Mills brings an upbeat enthusiasm. The partners
investigate a string of grisly murders, which they discover are based
on the seven deadly sins: greed, gluttony, pride, wrath, envy, sloth,
and lust.Several elements complete the terrifying portrait "Se7en" paints.
Visually, there are graphic murders, but moreover sadistic and
methodical killings. During their investigation, Mills and Somerset
reveal that the killer, John Doe (Kevin Spacey), has been planning his
attacks for over a year. There's also the stark realism. Unlike pure
evil entities like Michael Myers, Doe actually has justification for
his crimes, albeit lunatic ravings, but he nonetheless attempts to
rationalize his actions. Additionally, Doe doesn't strike in dreams,
has no distinguishing traits, and is relatively average, except for the
whole psycho killer thing.Rounding out the haunting genius of Fincher's film is a disturbing, and
completely unforeseen ending. No spoilers, but suffice it to say you'll
have to pick your jaw up off the floor. "Se7en" scares through
mimicking the profiles of actual serial killers, rather than relying on
paranormal villains. There's a thought-provoking theme of manipulating
religion to validate one's own actions and beliefs, a relevant and
adaptable topic. A thrilling scramble, "Se7en" is an unconventional
horror flick with the biggest blow arriving just before the screen
fades to black.-- Mitchell "Moe" Long
http://www.examiner.com/movies-in-durham/mitchell- moe-long

******
1 October 2014
8
Se7en is an intelligent and brutal thriller that delivers and will
shock your nerves to the core.It's about an ageing detective named, Somerset (Morgan Freeman), who is
partnered with a hotshot young detective, David Mills (Brad Pitt), 6
days before he retires. somerset is content to sit at his desk and type
paperwork when a killer starts murdering people. This killer is no
ordinary killer. He is murdering certain people based on the seven
deadly sins: Sloth, Wrath, Envy, Gluttony, Lust, Pride and Greed. Over
the course of seven days, they set out to find the killer who is always
one step ahead of them.David Fincher directs a shocking and graphic thrill ride about murder
and redemption. Morgan Freeman plays a cop on the eve of retiring. He
has seen it all and wants no more of the crime and punish he has seen
for many years. Brad Pitt is the edgy "know it all" detective with
flare to burn. Together they solve the disturbing mystery of a killer
on the loose who is too intelligent for the law to just grab off the
street. The use of the 7 deadly sins is displayed with depth and it works well
with the story. It gives you a fresh and violent take to tell a story
about a man who murders people for his own reasons and the shocking
violence that comes with it. Kevin Spacey is the killer who toys with
their heads and leaves them trying to figure out each brutal crime
scene. When he makes his stunning appearance, it's worth the wait
because you won't see it coming.This picture doesn't hide anything and it's explicit. It's shocking
because it's more explicit then the NC-17 rated Showgirls. The use of
brutal violence and disturbing content set the tone of the picture and
from the opening sequence, you know it's going to be a shocking film
with a fun and intelligent story.Smart writing and a well written script drive the story through the
seven crime scenes that are designed to shock you and see how much you
can take. It leads to a shocking ending that you don't see coming.
However, its effective but i didn't like the ending. I was not
expecting it and it made me feel cheated because of what happens and It
ends fast and that's it. The crime sequences are well designed and dirty. We get one character
who is obese and had his stomach kicked in after he was forced to eat
to death (Gluttony) and a disturbing and wildly graphic aftermath
sequence involving a prostitute and a knife (Lust).Se7En is a smart and well made thriller that will either shock or
offend you. If you can handle the picture, it's a can't miss. David
Fincher is a brilliant director with amazing talent and it shows.BE WARNED - THIS FILM IS NOT FOR ANYONE UNDER THE AGE OF 18

******
22 September 2014
8
Two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses
the seven deadly sins as his modus operandi. Seven is about two
detectives' looking for a serial killer who justifies bases in crimes
on the Seven Deadly Sins. The movie involves serial killer John Doe,
played by Kevin Spacey, who preaches to Detectives Sommerset, played by
Morgan Freeman and Mills, played by Brad Pitt  each sin. We are first
introduced to John Doe's terrible crimes by the first sin of Gluttony
and the murderer's unsympathetic nature is this graphic and dark. The
seasoned and experienced but tired Sommerset researches the Seven
Deadly Sins in an effort to understand the killer's modus operandi
while the young but inexperienced Detective Mills laughs at his efforts
to get inside the mind of a killer to understand his actions better.
Somerset, played by Morgan Freeman can be heard paraphrasing a quote by
Ernest Hemingway, "Ernest Hemingway once wrote 'The world is a fine
place, and worth fighting for'...I agree with the second part." David
Fincher who directed it, stated that he wanted: "dirty, violent,
polluted, often depressing. Visually and stylistically, that's how we
wanted to portray this world. Everything needed to be as authentic and
raw as possible.", and it was successful in doing so. The iconic ending
is one of the finest in cinematic history and is both chilling and
disturbing in nature in equal measure. Seven is an essential movie that
every lover of film must see.

******
19 August 2014
9
Story of two detectives - one ready to retire, and other at the start
of his career. Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman), one week away from
a well-deserved retirement, but must wait for one last case, for which
he's teamed with a young new short-tempered David Mills (Brad Pitt).
The duo investigate a particularly barbaric murder, in which a fat man
was forced to eat to death. Soon they face equally unique murders
involving death by blood loss from a cut of a pound of his own flesh,
by shock after coming out of some kind of chemically induced bed that
has kept him immobilized for one year. Soon they realize that the
murders represent the 7 deadly sins, inspired by the Dante Alighieri's
"The Divine Comedy". Somereset concludes that the killer "John
Doe"(Kevin Spacey), is killing people to deliver a sermon. Will John
Doe succeed or the two detectives will be able to stop him? Review: A dark, gruesome, merciless and intelligent thriller.
Skillfully written by Andrew Walker. A well-crafted movie, with a great
combination of fierce plot, and dark theme. Morgan Freeman did a great
job in a role of a mature cop. Brad Pitt seems more one-dimensional.
Gwyneth Paltrow (David Mills's Wife, Tracy) brings a note of love into
the picture. Great special effects by Rob Bottin. The movie remains
focused throughout, drawing the attention of audiences, with the
gradual unfolding of the events, creating a sense of mystery
throughout, with a shocking ending. Kevin Spacey is outstanding in a
small, but challenging role. David Fincher's brilliant directing will
leave you shocked, you will be begging for more films like this. The
film gives a step towards the bitter truths of life, the darkest domain
of human life. In Epiloge, Somerset can be heard paraphrasing a quote
by Ernest Hemingway, "The world is a fine place, and worth fighting
for'...I agree with the second part." It is one of the greatest films
of the 90's.

******
19 July 2014
9
I was 13 and i grew up with action movies, nothing wrong with that, but
not really my cup of tea. The first movie that blew my mind was se7en.
The reason? It's original, scary, new and creepy at the same time. The
thing that most surprised me was that they didn't use an happy ending.
How very on-Hollywood of them (the cast didn't want to go back if they
changed the ending). "What's in the box?". And the fact you do not know
why the killer hands himself over, till you get the picture for the
final act. Kevin Spacey didn't want to be on the poster so no one would
know he was John Doe. I loved it! All the time i was thinking
everything is going to be alright, yeah right!!! I cried my heart out
and at the same time i was surprised, happy by head over feet. Great
movie point.

******
8 July 2014
10
Se7en is definitely one of the best thrillers I've ever seen. When I
decided to watch the movie, I first read a few reviews about it. I
wasn't very excited, to be honest. Once again, there's a crazy serial
killer doing some horrible things around the city. I thought I have
seen enough movies with a plot like that, but actually the entire movie
is very interesting and it shows the entire world as it is. Sinful.
Morgan Freeman is a great actor and in this movie he plays the role of
a police officer who is about to retire. I must say that the ending was
very unpredictable. I liked it a lot, and I was very impressed and
shocked at the same time after watching it. Like Freeman says in the
end, "The world is a fine place and worth fighting for. I agree with
the second part."

******
1 July 2014
8
One of the most endearing aspects of Se7en is the dark atmosphere in
which it is set. From the get-go, an uneasy tension is created through
the way in which the crimes unfold. This tension is able to drag
viewers in, but most importantly, is maintained and even built upon
throughout the course of the film. Eventually it leads to one of the
most climactic endings seen in a thriller film for years.David Fincher's visuals, along with the performances of Brad Pitt and
Morgan Freeman (whose characters are written by Andrew Walker), aid in
the immersion of this gritty, yet strangely poetic film - an experience
you won't forget.

******
28 June 2014
9
This film had all the makings to be fantastic, and it delivered
perfectly. Pitt and Freeman complimented each other well, and their
characters' bonds was believable and real. The only reason i did not
feel this was worthy of 10/10 was due to the predictability of the
end... no spoilers of course but i did see this coming after about an
hour of the film, and although the ending is performed very well, i
feel a shock element might have just given this film an edge. Overall really enjoyable, enough gore without being too disgusting, and
smart dialogue that keeps you interested even when it isn't necessarily
action packed.

******
18 June 2014
10
The plot of this film revolves around the seven deadly sins and murder
investigations over the period of seven days. The lead characters,
Detective Mills (Brad Pitt) and Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman),
follow clues and do research into the seven deadly sins to catch a
killer named John Doe, (Kevin Spacey). The theme of this film is how the seven deadly sins relate to the
actions we choose and why we choose to take them. Many people would
agree that murder is a sin but this film makes the viewer question if
murder can be justified. Each victim in the movie is guilty of one of
the seven deadly sins and each victim is murdered in such a way that it
reflects the sin they are guilty of. The film can make the viewer
consider that maybe the victims did deserve to die.Each victim is guilty of one of the seven deadly sins; gluttony, greed,
sloth, wrath, lust, envy, and pride. Throughout the movie each murder
scene tells a story as to what sin the victim is guilty of. Each murder
scene also contains a clue that leads Mills and Somerset to the next
murder scene. An interesting spin on the movie is that Mills seems to
become one of the seven deadly sins himself, when he seeks revenge for
his wife, Tracy's, (Gwyneth Paltrow) death. The viewer would typically
have empathy for Mills decision and think his actions could be
justified.Lighting, camera angles, sound effects, and raw emotion are
successfully employed throughout the film, setting the mood for the
enthralling theme. The lighting in some of the murder scenes is low and
signifies suffering and death. There is a scene in the beginning of the
film that silhouettes a detective who was talking to Somerset. The
detective makes the assumption that the victim was killed out of love
by his wife. In this scene as he is walking away from Somerset the
lighting causes his body to become a silhouette. This is showing the
detective's naivety and lack of paying attention to detail.There are several moments when the camera angle is low. One in
particular is of Mills and Somerset standing in the rain, talking. This
scene takes place shortly after Mills and Somerset meet and portrays
Somerset taking a "you don't know how cruel this city really is"
approach toward Mills. The music that plays in the background adds to the thrill of many
scenes in this film. In the opening credits the song that plays is an
uncredited remix by Nine Inch Nails and it sets the foundation for the
film. There is a scene when Somerset makes a trip to the library to
research the seven deadly sins. The night guard turns on music that
seems soothing and peaceful. While this music is playing Somerset is
looking through books and murder scene photos giving the scene an
ironic feel.Raw emotion allows the viewer to relate to the characters. This raw
emotion is present in the last scene of the film when Mills realizes
John Doe murdered Tracy. Mills' tears and facial expressions signify
the grief he is experiencing and the dilemma he is facing at that very
moment. He is suffering an internal battle on whether or not he should
kill John Doe to avenge his wife's murder (wrath) instead of letting
the justice system do its job. The characteristic of the overall theme
to this film, wrath, can be related to the theme in Kill Bill Volume 1
and Volume 2 where the main character seeks revenge as well.This film has all of the necessary ingredients to bring the viewer into
its ironic reality of religion and murder leading up to the final sin
at the end, leaving the viewer completely satisfied.

******
10 June 2014
8
The movie Se7en tells the story of two homicide detectives, David Mills
(Brad Pitt) and William Sommerset (Morgan Freeman), who try to solve
seven mysterious murders. All the seven murders are committed very
sadistically as the victims are badly mutilated. The mutilations have
the purpose of symbolizing the seven deadly sins described in the
Bible. David Mills is the new homicide detective and he is aided by the
soon to retire William Sommerset. The difference between old 'veteran'
Sommerset and 'rookie' Mills brings quite some conflicts in the
beginning, but eventually the both of them agree that if they want to
catch the killer, they will have to work together and make use of each
other's strengths. The movie takes some major twists and turns at the
end, and this does contribute to giving the movie a satisfying ending. We think Se7en is a good movie. The story behind the murders with the
seven sins connected to it makes you think, whether or not the murders
were really that bad, or did the victims (sort of) deserve it? Asking
yourself this question is the result of the strong movie, as you would
normally not even consider if a murder was right or not. As mentioned
before, the movie builds up to the end, which does live up to the
expectations created by the rest of the film, as the ending is just as
dramatic and well done as the other parts of the film, which leaves you
with a satisfied feeling. Editing plays a very big and important role in the production of
movies, and this movie is no exception. Basically, everything that is
even slightly altered from the recorded parts is included in the
category editing. Editing therefore is making changes in filmed
fragments, and putting these changed fragments together to form a
fluent and pleasant to watch movie. An editor therefore has to make a
lot of decisions. What parts should he choose to put together to create
the right feeling and to satisfy the producer? why should he choose
these? Etc. Editing, however, is not just used to make the movie look
good or catchy, it's also used to give the audience a certain feeling,
imprinted in their minds by the director. In this way, the director can
set the experience of the movie to his hand. Using things such as different lighting, camera height, music and shot
length, the movie directors can give the audience certain opinions
about the characters without even having the character say a single
word. Characters with power are often filmed from a low perspective, as
this symbolizes them being greater than you. Meanwhile, meaner or evil
characters often have a darker glow around them and different
background music, because this creates tension. Difference in Shot
length shows a difference in the amount of energy used. The shorter the
shots, the more energy is in the actions. For example, in a shooter,
shots constantly change from one to the other, whereas in a love-story,
the shot length is way longer, to make it more romantic and lovable. This movie includes a lot of dramatic and painful scenes, wherein the
director made use of a range of different shot transitions, to
highlight the different amounts of tension in the scenes. In order to
make sure that the message is communicated to the audience, they use
longer shots and they pause between the monologues. In this way, the
audience is forced to think about what's being said and what the
message of the movie is. When energetic and active scenes are
concerned, the director chose for short shot length, and fast shot
transitions, in order to give the scenes more speed. The film was shot in a way that is uncommon in popular films. It was
shot in a special way using special lighting, making lots of shadows
and silhouettes. The film was then edited with a process called C.C.E,
which enhances the quality of the lights, making the dark parts darker
and the light parts whiter. This alteration from the original is
permanent. Most of the colors used are shades of black and grey, so that parts of
the images with primary colors (red, yellow and blue) stand out in
contrast. In this way, red is often used, because this reminds the
people of blood. The colors of this movie have a fakish look. This way,
the viewer gets the impression that they watch a coloured-in black and
white movie. This sequence is called neo-Gothic, and in my opinion fits
well with the story and the rest of the movie, wherein mainly darker
colors are used which corresponds with the dark murder theme. Although this is a pretty rad movie, sometimes scenes can get a bit too
slow for our taste. This made us lose track of the story a bit, halfway
through, and as a result we had to rewind some parts, to understand
them. I have given this movie some thought and can conclude that the
directors and producers made an excellent decision regarding the
choosing of the actors starring this movie. Morgan Freeman is perfectly
able to capture dramatic moments, making the viewers feel sympathy for
the actor, and thus making them follow the story better. Likewise we
think Brad Pitt is well chosen too, because he is highly experienced
with action and shooting scenes. Furthermore, the storyline isn't as
linear as one would expect from a crime thriller. On the one hand it's
a straightforward murder mystery, but on the other hand there are loads
of plot twists to make the movie more interesting and challenging to
understand. We think it's a highly interesting movie. We would definitely recommend
this movie, because it is an highly enjoyable and interesting story,
and the way they made use of the different kinds of filming editing
gives this story even more tension when needed.

******
3 June 2014
10
One of the best roles Brad pitt had. I think this is the movie everyone
need to see once at least. Every detail , every "murder" is perfect.
Nowdays you just cant find a lot movies which can be watched just like
on one breath take. Its one of the best thrillers iv seen. Perfect cast
and OST. A lot of emotions. And just incredible ending. Environment in
the movies are just perfectly matched. Like every directed movie by
David Fincher its easy for eye to watch if you know what i mean. The
grit and grime of the crimes scenes combined with filth of the city
streets, alleyways, rooftops, constantly being pounded with rain,
darkness engulf even the few happy moments of the film. So much of this
film's beauty is in the compilation.

******
3 June 2014
10
The theme about the seven deadly sins always is interesting for me. So,
I judge it very strictly. Andrew Kevin Walker wrote an unbelievable
plot. The director made the movie as good as the story. Watching the
play of Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey just makes the movie
absolute masterpiece. Very strong, dynamic, brutal, bloody and
mysterious thriller. Perhaps one of the best thrillers I've ever seen.
A true classic and a masterpiece of the genre at all times, which was
perhaps the best work of David Fincher. The film, which is worthy to
watch it over and over again. In my opinion the theme of the seven
deadly sins is complete opened. Score 10/10

******
11 May 2014
8
The gut-wrenching, psychological thriller, Se7en - directed by David
Fincher - is a dark crime story about David Mills (Brad Pitt), a hot
headed, reckless detective, who recently moves with his wife Tracy
(Gwyneth Paltrow), to an un-named city doomed with constant rain and
urban decay, to replace William Somerset (Morgan Freeman), a
methodical, retiring detective who has a week remaining in his job.The two detectives join together, determined to uncover the sadistic
serial killer responsible for the terrible murders taking place,
according to the seven deadly sins; gluttony, greed, sloth, lust,
pride, envy and wrath. Early on it is clear that the undiscovered
murderer to be, John Doe (Kevin Spacey), is twistedly turning the sin
against the sinner within his sick, messed up game, shown by the first
murder of an obese man (gluttony) killed by being force fed spaghetti
until his stomach exploded.Se7en is a well-written, well-acted, gripping film with an inventive
and intense plot which remains focused from beginning to end. The
suspense draws the audience in and keeps them entertained whilst the
incidents unfold, and remain relentless and shocking throughout; the
tension building the whole time for the exciting finale.Whilst the film keeps you latched on, it does provide a lot of detail,
which I personally feel needs your entire attention, and a second
viewing, to fully understand and to pick up on information missed the
initial time. Even so, this didn't let the film down.

******
10 May 2014
10
this movie was the best movie i have ever seen , kept my eyes locked at
the screen for every second. it stars two of the best actors alive
which makes it come across that much more real, some movies are ruined
by bad acting or just bad directing but this ..... it has everything i
look for in a movie a ending that you did not see coming ,,, well
basically i didn't see any of it coming in this movie and Morgan
Freeman deserves a medal for his acting in this movie. the sins where
captured in the best way possible and the clues the killer left where
not something you could easily pick out but not so far fetched that it
is impossible. i just loved this movie until the very end of it its a
jaw dropping piece of art.

******
20 April 2014
9
This movie is really good. First, it has two of my favorite actors:
Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey so you know it's going to be good. This
movie is based on a man's (played by Kevin Spacey) obsession with
punishing people who he believes are partaking in one of the seven
deadly sins. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt play the detectives after
him. Gwyneth Paltrow plays the wife to Brad Pitt's character, and while
it may seem that she doesn't play a crucial role in the movie, her
character turns out to be pivotal in how the end of this movie plays
out. I would recommend this movie to anyone who likes movies about
serial killers and those who distort the Bible to their own beliefs. If
you have a weak stomach, though, then this movies might not be for you.
There are a lot of disturbing images and swearing throughout so I would
not recommend it for children. Also, parents really do need to use
their judgment when it comes to letting their teens watch it. It's
rated R for good reason.

******
16 April 2014
8
Se7en. An unpredictable serial killer plot, the great storytelling of
ace director David Fincher, performed by always reliable Morgan
Freeman, star actor Brad Pitt and if it was not enough Kevin Spacey who
does not how to do bad acting, all these give you one of the darkest
and chilling thriller of all time. From the word go, you find yourself
solving the case with two detectives played by Morgan and Brad. At one
moment, they are very near to solve the case and then everything is
turned upside down with a heartbreaking climax. Another movie that
comes this close to perfection in serial killer plots is another David
Fincher classic Zodiac. Gwyneth Paltrow as Brad's wide does well in her
small part and provides lightness to otherwise heavy setup. Se7en
although questioning the morality still maintains the good side of
morality. I am going with fantastic 8 out of 10 for Se7en. You will
enjoy it best when seen in total silence or undisturbed environment. If
you love to be thrilled, then don't miss it!!

******
23 March 2014
10
Se7en has it all, yes and somewhat still does pretty Damn well
(compelling entertainment wise) without the very marketable Nudity and
Sex... Both Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are outstanding in there given
roles as very darkly humored and temperamental detectives out to find a
very deranged and disturbed psychopath who basically gruesomely murders
his victims using the Se7en deadly wicked sins played so ingeniously by
the epic Kevin Spacey. A must see if you care for the very very Dark
side of Humanity Se7en is a rare Treat Directed By David Fincher And
Can be watched Till basically Your time on this very mixed up Planet is
up...

******
20 March 2014
9
The origins of my love for cinema began when I started to discover many
films similar to Se7en, ones that really provoke mass discussion long
after seeing them. That overwhelming necessity to really explore the
deeper meaning of the movie. They don't just aim to entertain, but to
challenge opinions and push people to comprehend short-comings in
society.When the young, cocksure Detective Mills (Brad Pitt) moves to the city
hoping for a more thrilling line of police work, a string of murders
are set in motion. He is consequently partnered with the diligent
veteran, Detective Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman) to resolve the
case, forcing them to put aside their differences to end the sequence
of events, only to become pawns on a much larger board.Throughout the feature you get the feeling that these are two very
different walks of life, the generational divide in their work methods
are shown clearly. Whilst Somerset is cultured, world-weary and
methodical, Mills is very impulsive and head strong, aiming to make an
impression within the force yet not having the same determination when
investigating. A montage shows Pitt's character is struggling to
concentrate at home, meanwhile, his elder is shown pouring over books
in a library, making reasonable headway with the case.This is no buddy-cop movie, it's unrelenting and brutal throughout.
Although all the murders happen off-screen, the events are retold via
the crime scene investigations and photographic evidence which enhance
the aura of mystery around the killer, building up to the final
chilling performance by Kevin Spacey as their very own John Doe. Blank
of regret and emotion, he fits the performance perfectly as you can see
the criminal exuding delight as the detectives are forced to pursue him
through the grisly cat and mouse game.One of the ways that Fincher expresses how twisted the city-living can
become is by the similarities between the characteristics of the
'insane' Doe and the disciplined Somerset. They act as two parallel
examples of how someone can deal with a poor hand. Where the detective
originally set out to better the world via law enforcement, using his
intellect to prevent misconduct, John Doe executes a series of pre-
meditated murders using his knowledge as a message to the masses. Their
cynical outlook on how humanity has become so apathetic is resolved in
two completely polar ways, their likeness fascinates me.I believe that part of David Fincher's plan when filming this was to
hold a mirror to modern society. For us to scrutinise why, when murders
are committed, we show no empathy? Horrors and tragedies are a staple
fixture of the world today and much like Fincher's 'Fight Club'
adaptation, it questions the very core of how compassion seems to have
become less predominant, replaced by a love for money, consumerism and
our own well-being. How accustomed we have become to awful events
described by various media outlets on a a daily basis. All roles
perfectly delivered by all actors involved. The ending flawlessly ties
all loose ends within the plot whilst delivering its distressing
climax, undoubtedly still provoking debates over a decade after its
initial release.

******
4 March 2014
9
Seven is the best example of story structure I've ever seen in film.
Everything comes at the right time, in a script, brilliantly crafted by
Andrew Kevin Walker, who wrote an earlier draft in 1992, with a
different ending, unlike the final one that jarred me, and left me open
mouthed, haunting me for many nights later, if almost turning me off
the movies. Cocky rookie cop, Brad Pitt and a more wise veteran
detective (Freeman) work an out of the ordinary case, involving a
killer, punishing people right down to the T, based on the seven deadly
sins, some quite gruesome and graphic murders shown, led by excessive
examples, sloth and gluttony, wrath and envy, the key to the finale of
this nuts scenario. The brilliant performance from the very well
respected actor playing our John Doe, I didn't recognizing until ten
minutes later. You go into Seven, thinking it's just another serial
killer movie, you come out, somewhat disturbed, jarred by it's none
more shock ending, you'll never see coming, and it's great twenty
minute lead up, which for some people who are easily disturbed, should
steer away from. Freeman is solid here, where in many familiar start
scenarios, here, he's just retiring from the department, when who
should walk in, but cocky, arrogant, anger charged Pitt, in one of his
best ever performances, where these two great actors were praised,
warranted some acting stature. We have light hearted moments, "meet the
family" scenes that worked well, amidst the mostly heavy and intense
material, the John Doe chaser scene is awesome. Seven is flawless, I
must say, it's opening theme to the song closer, that plays over
haunting credits amongst disturbing and engrossing images, rocks, as
does the closing soon, as a duly reminder as the consequences of those
victim's sins. Put this is on your final bucket list of movies. Awesome
cover poster.

******
19 February 2014
10
Can you picture great cast, great acting, great directing, great
villain, great ending, great cinematic, matching score, great
scrip????... you can obviously guess this will be a great film.Pitt, Freeman, Paltrow, Spacey they all give some of the most
thrilling, chilling, and amazing performances of their careers.Definitely recommend this fill to anyone who is looking to see what
good old fashion movie making is all about.I think the only movie that compares to this level of film making is
Silence of the Lambs, Hannibal and Clarice will definitely for ever
have a place in our hearts, but we will also never forget Detectives
Mills and Somerset, lovely Tracy and nightmarish John Doe.

******
17 February 2014
8
An enthusiastic young detective, keen to set the world to rights, is
partnered up with a cynical old cop nearing retirement. They are put on
a case in which a serial killer is committing a series of murders
themed after the seven deadly sins.This police suspense thriller is so dark that it borders on horror. It
is well written, brilliantly performed by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman
as the two cops and Kevin Spacey as the killer (one of his breakout
performances at around this time, the other being The Usual Suspects),
and has a truly shocking ending. You're not going to go home with a
happy feeling, though - it simply isn't that sort of movie.I recommend it but be warned: it is not an easy watch.

******
3 February 2014
10
I watched on the recommendation.The subject of the movie before
watching the movie I read,and when reading topics I gave a positive
written for the film rights to.One of the movies that I like.
Impressive movie,extremely. I just didn't like the film at the last
minute. In my opinion that shouldn't end. It make a different ending,
but in this respect.Andrew Kevin Walker's watched another movie. He
writes really successful scenario. Se7en films also are one of
them.Want to write a movie like this really imagination. There is
nothing more to be said,very successful film and successful actresses,
actors.. Everyone should follow.You will be surprised watching, I'm
sure..

******
31 January 2014
7
I feel like watching the show Breaking Bad ruined the show Weeds for
me. I think I had the same problem with Se7en after finishing the show
Dexter. The plot twists and murders in that Dexter are just so much
more gruesome and interesting than the ones depicted in Se7en that I
just wasn't surprised by the ending. I could pretty much predict what
was going to happen during the entire movie after watching 96 episodes
about a serial killer. I'm sure it was a great movie back in 1995 and had I originally watched
it back than I would probably be giving this a 9/10. However in 2014
there have been so many crime drama shows/movies that Se7en just seemed
mediocre to me. I found it a little slow until the end and even that
part was not utterly shocking to me.

******
31 January 2014
10
"Seven," a dark, grisly, horrifying and intelligent thriller, may be
too disturbing for many people, I imagine, although if you can bear to
watch, it you will see filmmaking of a high order. It tells the story
of two detectives - one ready to retire, the other at the start of his
career - and their attempts to capture a perverted serial killer who is
using the Seven Deadly Sins as his scenario.The look of "Seven" is crucial to its effect. This is a very dark film,
the gloom often penetrated only by the flashlights of the detectives.
Even when all the lights are turned on in the apartments of the
victims, they cast only wan, hopeless pools of light.The enigma of Somerset's character is at the heart of the film, and
this is one of Morgan Freeman's best performances. He embodies
authority naturally; I can't recall him ever playing a weak man. Here
he knows all the lessons a cop might internalize during years spent in
what we learn is one of the worst districts of the city. He lives
alone, in what looks like a rented apartment, bookshelves on the walls.
He puts himself to sleep with a metronome. He never married, although
he came close once. He is a lonely man who confronts life with resigned
detachment."Seven" is not really a very deep or profound film, but it provides the
convincing illusion of one. Almost all mainstream thrillers seek first
to provide entertainment; this one intends to fascinate and appall. The
killer obviously intends his elaborate murders as moral statement. He
suggests as much after we meet him. When he's told his crimes will soon
be forgotten in the daily rush of cruelty, he insists they will be
remembered forever. They are his masterpiece. What goes unexplained is
how, exactly, he is making a statement. His victims, presumably guilty
of their sins, have been convicted and executed by his actions. What's
the lesson? Let that be a warning to us?The killer, as I said, turns himself in with 30 minutes to go, and
dominates the film from that point forward. When "Seven" was released
in 1995 the ads, posters and opening credits didn't mention the name of
the actor, and although you may well know it, I don't think I will
either. This actor has a big assignment. He embodies Evil. Like
Hannibal Lecter, his character must be played by a strong actor who
projects not merely villainy but twisted psychological complexities.
Observe his face. Smug. Self-satisfied. Listen to his voice.
Intelligent. Analytical. Mark his composure and apparent fearlessness.
The film essentially depends on him, and would go astray if the actor
faltered. He doesn't."Seven" is unique in one detail of its construction; it brings the
killer on screen with half an hour to go, and gives him a speaking
role. Instead of being simply the quarry in a chase, he is revealed as
a twisted but articulate antagonist, who has devised a horrible plan
for concluding his sermon. (The actor playing the killer is not
identified by name in the ads or opening credits, and so I will leave
his identity as another of his surprises.) "Seven" is well-made in its
details, and uncompromising in the way it presents the disturbing
details of the crimes. It is certainly not for the young or the
sensitive.

******
12 January 2014
8
First off, this movie does not have a "happy ending"; this is why I
could not give it a ten star rating. For me to give a movie/TV show a
ten star rating it has to have a happy ending. I'm not going to lie I
was so upset the first time I watched it and told everyone the movie
was horrible. However, I really liked the movie, I was just harping on
about the ending. That being said, I think the movie itself was
brilliant. It would not have been as good if it would have had a "happy
ending". The part at the end that I hated made everything fit
perfectly. Knowing the end results made me like it more when I watched
it again. Great acting by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman. Also this movie
is not scary at all. I do get scared easy in movies (that aren't even
scary movies). I refuse to watch scary movies actually, so for me to
say it's not scary means it's not scary. I was obviously surprised by
the ending and that always makes a movie so much better to me is when I
can't figure out the ending until the end.

******
24 December 2013
10
A deranged serial-killers twisted agenda involves choosing seven
victims who represent egregious examples of each of the Seven Deadly
Sins. He then views himself as the Sword of God, handing out horrific
punishment to these sinners. Two cops, an experienced veteran of the
streets who is about to retire and the ambitious young homicide
detective hired to replace him, team up to capture the perpetrator of
these gruesome killings. Unfortunately, they too become ensnared in his diabolical plan....If you haven't seen this film, stop reading and watch this masterpiece.
But I don't know anyone who hasn't seen this, and as soon as you
mention the film, everyone I know gives that look, because the first
thing you remember the ending, and the subliminal image of Paltrow.Set in a nameless city, its and odd mixture of thriller, Gothic horror,
and genuinely touching, funny moment, this is what makes the film
unique.It doesn't prepare you for the conclusion of the film. Pitt is a happy
man, new job, wife and a relatively stable home. Freeman though, is a
troubled individual, having to have aids to help him sleep.But Fincher is a genius in the way that he ups the tension without the
audience being aware. Every new murder is more disgusting than the the
last, and the the line 'California, stay away from here, John Doe has
the upper hand' tingles the spine, regardless of the amount of times
you've seen it.It really is the epitome of, you can never see it in the same light as
the first time you saw it.It really is that powerful.Brilliant stuff

******
15 December 2013
9
I watched Se7en, which stars Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt and Kevin Spacey
and I was gob smacked at how well crafted the storyline and ending are.
Somerset (Freeman) and Mills (Pitt) are searching for a man only known
as 'John Doe,' he is killing and preaching at the same time by killing
people based on the Seven Deadly sins, Sloth, Gluttony, Envy, Greed,
Lust, Wrath and Pride as his motive. Somerset takes this case as his
last one before he calls it the quits and Mills is a new detective, who
doesn't usually listen to the much more experienced Somerset. The story
unfolds with the detectives trying to track this killer after he is
toying with the police leaving no fingerprints and hardly any clues of
any kind. I won't tell anymore but there's not many dull moments and
the ending is like no other I've ever seen. From the director of Fight
Club another great storyline and twist at the end, even though Fight
Club is exceedingly more violent than Se7en, they are both made the
same way and both have such great acting and story lines, that this
movie cannot be passed over. Very Highly recommended and I would give
it 9/10.

******
12 December 2013
10
**Se7en*** The Darkness will make you blind in which it serves you the thrill
and mystery ! This movie is extremely brilliant which dazzles in
extreme surprises,mystery and also goosebumps . * Intelligent screen
play is the main factor for the movie to shoot the components needed to
be displayed in such orderly fashion without any disruption . * The
Director of this film David Fincher has made this movie into a master
piece by giving correct amount of properties and attributes to this
film such a task is performed perfectly. * The acting phase of Brad
Pitt and Morgan Freeman have a great chemistry with each other
considering their roles in this film they stand out as iconic they both
make an amazing performance ! The character John Doe portrayed by Kevin
Spacey has accomplished perfectly in displaying a terrific serial
killer by giving its charm and grace to the character itself . * This
movies tells that it knows what darkness really is and it shows how
thrilling it will be ! . * Overall Movie is Dark & Brilliant but also
shines as a sparkled gem stone .Se7en :**********(10/10) Stars

******
4 December 2013
7
David Fincher directed this dark mystery that stars Brad Pitt as
detective Mills, who joins more experienced detective Somerset(played
by Morgan Freeman) in their murder investigation that seems quite
bizarre, as the victims were killed via the judgment of the seven
deadly sins(gluttony, sloth, etc.) The killer is quite clever and
patient, though the detectives do eventually track him down, and after
his arrest, learn that he has one more victim in mind to complete his
master-plan, and that it involves Mills' wife(played by Gwyneth
Paltrow)... Impressively directed and acted film is supremely
well-crafted, with a knockout of an ending you won't see coming, though
it is so unrelentingly bleak & depressing that it can be a chore to sit
through, yet it remains worthwhile viewing in spite of this.

******
13 November 2013
8
Morgan Freeman & Brad Pitt are obviously just another classic white /
black duo of two butting personalities. Once the sexual tension is
relieved midway through the film they both realize they are in for a
treat emotionally when they encounter a villain that rivals Joe Pesci
in Home Alone 2. With no Macauley Caulkin to booby trap a cunning
bastard these two are left to play clue until the tragic end of
themselves & their faith in Christianity. Yet hold the phone there is
still hope, as we have seen in the comeback of Ben Affleck after making
the film Gigli, Morgan remains astute even in the faltering of the
human soul in villains & heroes because we see him later in life as the
head of Wayne enterprises. All in all this movie reiterates that life
goes on, unless you have committed suicide or are in fact in purgatory.

******
9 November 2013
7
Albeit somewhat extreme, this movie does a virtuous job of indemnifying
how human society is degrading as a whole. Our perverse and void of
emotion (or extreme emotion) is hopelessly captured within the span of
this movie. Who are we if we are not ourselves and not truly trying to
be better people? This is a movie worth watching. I did so on the terms
of a review for a school project and it actually was more meaningful
than I was expecting. the writers may have not intended such a dramatic
realization that if our actions are unkept then we would be ultimately
subject to what was illustrated in this movie. a few suggestions to
this movie would be to watch it with a sincerely open mind, thoughts to
who we are, who we could be, what we have been, and how we should
voyage into the future.

******
26 October 2013
10
(Sorry for bad English)Se7en is unique. Usually after watching good movie I want to see it
again, but not in this case. This movie shocked me with violence, it
gave me so many emotions that i don't want to watch it one more time, I
never thought that just a movie can scare so much. Most of horrors
novadays doesn't scare so much as Se7en. Storyline is awesome and
actors play very good, especially Bradd Pitt in final scene -
unforgettable. Morgan Freeman always play well and so he did. After
watching Se7en you will start to compare all thrillers with it. By the
way I watched Se7en about a year ago but I still remember it very well
and I still don't want to re watch it. This film definitely is not for
everyone. If you're going to watch film just for fun or with family -
choose another movie. Se7en is for serious audience.

******
16 October 2013
9
If you simply read about what Seven is about you would be forgiven for
thinking it sounded an incredibly hackneyed affair. A world weary
detective a week from retirement is paired with a young hotshot
colleague to work on a new case of grisly murders. They don't get on at
first but once they get to know each other they begin to form a bond
and prove to be a good team. This synopsis makes Seven sound like a
generic buddy cop movie. And, to be fair, it is that to a certain
extent. But fortunately the truth is in the detail.Director David Fincher is a visual stylist and it's the look and feel
of the movie that helps transcend it to another level. The setting is a
nameless, hellish city where it seems to constantly be raining. There
is a consistent feeling of impending dread. The visual elements of the
film emphasises this. It goes for a dark neo-noir look, what with the
rain and the shadowy interiors. The buildings all look like they are
from a bygone era, while the men seem to dress like they are from a
40's film-noir - hats and trench coats are the order of the day,
despite this clothing being completely out of fashion in the 90's. It's
this attention to detail that gives Seven such an interesting look and
feel.Then we have the serial killings themselves. They have been staged to
represent the seven deadly sins from the Bible. Each horrible death is
targeted against someone who breaches one of the sins and their
punishment is an elaborate and violent lesson against their
transgression. It's a great set of crimes to base a detective film
around. The mystery narrative progresses at first in a fairly
traditional way but towards the end the rug is pulled out from under us
and we enter unexpected territory. It's this unpredictability also that
makes this a fine unconventional thriller. The principal actors are all
very good, with a particular standout turn from Kevin Spacey towards
the end. Spacey is very adept a doing 'cold' and here he is pitch
perfect.The story arc winds its way intelligently to an unforgettably
nihilistic climax and Seven ultimately has to be considered one of the
best serial killer films out there.

******
22 September 2013
7
Only the mind of David Fincher could create this dark portrait of a
series of murders that is based on the seven deadly sins. Thrown into
the fray are two detectives so vastly different from each other, but
must work together to solve the grisly murders. The rational Detective
Somerset, played stoically by Morgan Freeman, is on the verge of
retiring, but is forced against his will to stay an additional week as
the murder spree begins. His partner is the volatile and frustrated
Detective David Mills, a role that suits Brad Pitt just right,
determined to solve his first big city case, much to the chagrin of his
wife, Tracy (Gwenyth Paltrow) and to the caring frustration of
Somerset.The murder scenes are grisly and not for the faint of heart. Luckily
for the sake of the viewer, the "Lust" murder victim is not shown at
all. However the other scenes that are shown are graphic, though not
too explicit.If you;be got the stomach for it, check out "Se7en"

******
17 September 2013
10
the perfect word - it is a pure gem. but this film is out of words.
dark pieces, one by one as bones and muscles and flesh for a story
about partnership, family, desires and sin. a thriller, of course, but
little far by genre. because it is a profound social analysis. because
it is not only result of a beautiful script but , in same measure, it
is demonstration of high performance. each actor gives to his character
more than his image and art and science to imagine words sound, gesture
force but himself at whole. the measure is key. and the fantastic end
who represents more than top of a thriller, crime or usual movie. must
see it ! it is not a bad idea to see it , again, after a couple of
time. because it remains, again and again, that kind of movie out of
synopsis or words of a review.

******
11 September 2013
10
I am an avid lover of horror and crime mysteries. Ihave tried to watch
all the leading crime movies on the IMDb 250 list. Se7en has made me
weak in my knees. The se7en sins of man allows a person to take 7 lives
and Kevin Spacey, does that without an iota of guilt. He kills
mercilessly and his kills are no less than the worst nightmare on a
repeat. You are expecting that after he is arrested by the police, his
motives will be clear. However, after his arrest. the only thing that
is clear is his mental instability. A learned man becomes a preacher of
sins and how to end them. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman have acted
beautifully.

******
8 September 2013
8
Se7en (David Fincher, 1995)Here's a movie I last saw about 15 years ago, yet my memories of it are
vivid and intense. Watching it again this weekend brought all that
back. Morgan Freeman is great as the retiring detective who contrasts
Brad Pitt's character excellently. Se7en starts off as this sort of
typical police procedural that would not be out of place in a Law and
Order episode, but it sure as hell doesn't stay that way. Gwyneth
Paltrow's character is given little depth, which may be a flaw but I
haven't decided yet. The various fates of the victims are
psychologically terrifying. To say much more would spoil the final
scenes. Generally I can take or leave the whole crime/horror genre--it
just isn't always my cup of tea--but this film is deeper and more raw
than most. 8/10

******
2 September 2013
10
There are very few horror movies that have come out in the past
twenty-five years that manage to deliver on the "horror" front without
resorting to taking the gore over the top, or playing all of the lowest
common denominator cards. Se7en is the exception to the rule. It's most
bone chilling moments are dialogue driven, and plot progression is what
packs the punches, not formulaically placed "one-up" death sequences.
The story is personable (which is one of the best ways to increase the
thrill factor), it's production is exemplary, and it's message is
deep-cutting. An ace on all fronts. Movies like Se7en are a rare
commodity these days. There are too many variables in on the production
side to allow for "perfect 10" results upon release. But it's possible
that this is what allows movies of a higher caliber have a greater
impact. There is a sense of victory that gets mixed in with the stew of
other pleasing emotions that movies like this evoke. Victory over the
variables. Se7en is definitely one of the survivors. Despite the odds,
Se7en is a perfect 10.

******
19 August 2013
8
"Se7en" is a movie which has to do with a serial killer who uses the
seven deadly sins as method of doing these crimes. In this movie we
have the outstanding interpretations of the beautiful Gwyneth Paltrow
as Tracy Mills, Morgan Freeman as Detective Lt. William Somerset and
Brad Pitt as Detective David Mills.This is a must see movie because it's a movie that it will keep you
hooked and you will really love it. When I saw this movie for the first
time I had reservations of this film, but when it finished I thought
that it worth every second of it.David Fincher did a great job in the direction of this film and that
was pointed with the resonance in which had this movie and how people
accepted and then loved this movie. David Fincher did a great start
with "Se7en" and gave us a taste for the future films that followed and
that will follow.

******
17 August 2013
10
A thrilling and shocking film. It's captivating with a genius story
line. I can't imagine how anyone could dislike it, no matter what
genres you prefer. It's really one of my favorites. I would recommend
this to everyone who enjoys watching crime and mystery. And of course,
the amazing actors who are perfect for their roles played in the movie.
One of their best performances to date, in my opinion. I'd almost
compare it to The Silence of the Lambs, because of it's dark events and
shocking outcomes. This films also a psychological thriller and leaves
you thinking once it's over. If you've yet to check it out, you should
do so right away. I give it a ten out of ten, mainly because of the
creepy setting and very original plot.

******
14 August 2013
9
Absolutely stunning film! This film serves as what a true suspenseful
thriller should be. There are a lot of crap films out there and its
nice to see a rare film that is Oscar worthy.Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey carry this film strongly. Of course
Brad Pitt is very good too and so is the small part that Gwen Paltrow
plays.I swear everything this film does you have never seen done before.
Blows your mind all the new twists and turns.If you want originality and scares this film is for you. Not much else
to say

******
28 July 2013
8
An amazing film with a great twist. Kevin Spacey's first entrance as John Doe was one of the highlights for
me, and goes down as perhaps the most chilling entrance of any villain
in a thriller.Se7en is gruesome at times and watching this movie alone in a dark room
late at night will do two things: enhance the impact in a good way, and
enhance the impact in a highly impacting way. Your choice.A 'must-watch', especially if you're into chilling, suspenseful and
downright evil thrillers. The other part of this film that makes it so
intense is the long moment of indecision that David Mills (Brad Pitt)
has at the end of the film. He takes so long to decide, and as an
audience we know what he should do, but know he's not going to do it.
This is a credit to David Fincher and Brad Pitt.Read this whole thing in Morgan Freeman's voice. If you like how that
sounds, watch Se7en.

******
23 July 2013
9
The movie is one of my favorite mystery movies. Some may find the movie
boring and dull in the first half with nothing so much happening. But,
it's the last 30 minutes of the movie, when you really start feeling
the goose bumps! It makes you curious finally ending up with something
you won't really expect! The movie is conceptual and most importantly
isn't like most of the mystery thrillers. This is what contributes
towards making the movie an uncommon one.And the detective roles finely played by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman
set high standards to the movie. The script too is rich with catchy
dialogues and excitement.It's highly recommended for viewers who take interesting in watching
mystery flicks and thrillers.

******
22 July 2013
10
Getting into the film noir genre was probably one of the best things
I've done for myself as a person who loves film. Deep, moody stories
all the while being stylish and evoking a despondent atmosphere are
definitely my type of movies. Movies that ask important questions of us
dealing with our humanity or depicting the ugliest parts of the human
psyche that is disturbingly relevant to our modern society shows that
movies are more than just mere entertainment. This is everything that
makes Se7en a great movie, in my opinion.I could go on and on about the film, but first I have got to talk about
the atmosphere that makes the movie so effective in many ways. It is
just pure grit and grime and I love the film's consistency in its tone.
Not just through its sets, but also the color tones that were used to
enhance every scene makes each scene moody and ominous. These
aesthetics definitely make for a lot of great cinematography and there
is quite a number of memorable shots in the film. A key scene for me
would be all the scenes taking place in the library, which are
definitely some of the most beautiful cinematography I have seen in
film thus far.What also makes Se7en stand on its two feet are definitely great
performances from Morgan Freeman who makes each movie I've seen him in
have depth and character. While Freeman delivered a performance to
compliment the film's story, Kevin Spacey was definitely the one to
steal the show. To deliver such a disturbing performance that elicits
just as much fear as watching Hannibal Lecter on screen was a feat that
I didn't even know could be accomplished. I was holding my breath in
every scene he spoke to another character. He was that captivating in
his acting performance.I don't know what else to say without spoiling this great movie, other
than that anyone who is a fan of the noir genre or just a person who
enjoys a good story should definitely watch Se7en. The film is so good
that I had to include this on my personal list of my top favorite
movies of all time. A pure classic in every way.

******
11 May 2012
10
Se7en is perhaps the greatest murder story ever told on cinema. This is
the film that brought David Fincher into the spotlight. I expected a
great movie from what I heard about this film, but nothing prepared me
for this.This is about a killer who goes by the name of John Doe. His evil plan
is to murder seven people associated with the seven deadly sins. A
veteran detective teams up with a rookie detective to solve this
heinous crime as it unfolds.I expected nothing less from Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt as the
detectives. They are very talented actors. However, Kevin Spacey stole
the show. He just creeped the living daylight out of me.Overall, this is a dark, but genius film! This is not for the
weak-minded or for young children. Also, the ending for this film has
to be the best ending ever in the history of film. I rate this film
10/10.

******
1 March 2012
9
I watched this movie after I saw it on the IMDb's 250 list. Well, to be
honest, the movie was quite disturbing, and I felt some sort of a
special connection with the characters, both Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman were incredible in this movie. I'd also say I'd do the same at
the end, and I even felt the anger and pity myself, which is just
another bravo to the director. The plot is just amazing, and the whole movie atmosphere.. Dark,
thrilling, and disturbing. The sex "toy" scene was just gross, but also
kind of showed off and lead to the final exclamation of the trigger.
And then it was over. Great movie.

******
27 February 2012
9
There is no one who could argue against the fact that if you put Brad
Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Kevin Spacey together in a
film, it is going to be a hit.I have watched countless hours of murder mysteries in movies and TV and
have read innumerable books, and there is no finer murder/serial killer
story than this one.It has every element that one would look for in this type of story and
it delivers with a punch to the gut that is visceral and lasting.This is one of those films that you can watch countless times and never
tire of.

******
16 February 2012
7
I didn't expect much from the movie but it turned out to be really
good. Especially the characters and their development throughout the
film was amazing.Mills: In the beginning the pretty boy. Enthusiastic and funny. Towards
the end he was the aggressive and cold-blooded cop. Well portrayed by
underrated Brad Pitt.Somerset: Wow. Great story for this character. Would have loved more
about his background and past, but even without remarkable writing.Story: From the beginning on there was mystery. It was solved very late
and I liked that; kept the imagination for the viewers. I would have
done a kind of different ending, that would have fit the movie more
because it seemed a bit rushed towards the ending.Music: The music was great. Howard Shore at one of his best. Not
comparable with Lord of the Rings but really good. It fit the movie
perfectly: Epic and big but at the same time slow and mysterious.All in all: One great movie. I can absolutely recommend you to watch it

******
14 January 2012
8
David Fincher's now-classic neo-noir isn't as shocking as it was 15
years ago, neither in its levels of violence nor in its twisting plot.
As serial killer films go, I believe Fincher outdid the achievements of
Se7en with the underrated Zodiac - Zodiac's cynical indifference was to
me more original and more poignant than Se7en's ominous manipulation.
Zodiac's main point was lack of consequence; Se7en pretends to have
more consequence than it actually does.But consequence or not, Se7en remains a perfectly solid thriller,
entertaining, gripping and extremely well-crafted. Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman both give understated but very fitting performances, and the
masterful cinematography makes for a very powerful experience, 15 years
later. A masterpiece it ain't, but a very good piece of film it
certainly is.

******
9 February 2010
8
This movie is good solid character development & story telling. It is
just short of being a great film. The reason that is too me is that the
ending is way too predictable. The clues to the ending are revealed in
the middle of the film and I was able to predict it.Morgan Freeman is perfectly cast as the thinking man Detective. Any
thinking man character fits Freeman though even though there is some
action in this one, Freeman is the 34 year vet who has never fired his
gun. That's good because he doesn't fit the classic thinking & action
Detective that Humphrey Bogart did so well.Brad Pitt is perfectly cast as the young emotional out of control
Detective Mills who gets Freeman teamed with him on the trail of the
seven deadly sins killer. He is the young guy who marries his school
sweetheart, and that is why it is so predictable. As soon as you
realize that Love is one of the sins, you know his wife is in danger.The film works well as a drama but not as a mystery at the end. Earlier
on it works as being unpredictable as the other victims are revealed.
Kevin Spacey is very effective in the last reals as the murderer. The
thing is, other than driving Detective Mills crazy at the end, his
character works out to be much less than your led to believe by the
story.Overall, this is a very solid film, but falls just short of being a
great film. I think if a real suspense Director like Sir Alfred
Hitchcock had gotten a hold of it, the ending would have been done even
better. This is the best film this Director has on his resume so far.

******
5 February 2010
8
This review contains minor spoilers.I heard about Se7en from the DVD cover of Saw in which The Guardian
compared the two movies, claiming Saw to go "up to EI8GHT". Naturally,
I expected a movie quite similar to Saw in terms of violence and gore.
I didn't get it. The stories of both movies and are relatively similar,
but Se7en is more of a crime thriller in which a serial killer murders
his victims in accordance with the seven deadly sins, claiming the
people he killed deserved it. That's where the similarities end.Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt have great chemistry on-screen. They are
genuinely believable in their roles, the tried and tested 'retiring
cop' and 'new cop' formula. The crime scenes they visit aren't shown in
great detail, leaving much to the imagination. For instance, the crime
scene in which a woman has had her nose cut off "to spite her face" (in
an effort to teach her that inner beauty is more important than outer)
simply shows shots of the body at a medium long shot and shows no
close- ups of the woman's actual face.All-in-all, it's a brilliantly constructed movie that deals out the
suspense and tends to keep the viewer guessing. Arguably the highlight
is the climax in which all the questions you're asking yourself
throughout are answered, not to mention the nasty shock Brad Pitt's
character gets. I'm pretty sure that the ending is widely known even
with people who haven't seen the movie, as I myself knew the ending
prior to watching it. I would expect I'd have enjoyed it much better if
I hadn't known how it ended but despite this, I did thoroughly enjoy
it.http://ukmore.tk/

******
28 January 2010
10
I've seen this movie at least ten times, and every time it's getting
better then the last time. I have been paying much attention to the
script, in order to find some mistakes, because I couldn't believe that
such a script was viable. But it is. Andrew Walker is a genius, a fact
proved by Seven and consolidated by 8MM. Never mind the acting.
Freeman, Pitt, Paltrow and Spacey are multiple Oscar winners and
nominees, so we're not talking about them. It goes without saying. As
for David Fincher, the movie is obviously his masterpiece (along with
Fight Club, of course). The movie is ... just mind blowing. The
atmosphere is raw, and unstudied, and it all happens very fast, flowing
towards the ending. And as John Doe grins at the end, knowing that he
TRULY is the victor, the tension rises every time, and the musical
score just makes you breathe on the edge of the seat, that's when the
truth is revealed ... to be one of the greatest movies ever made. You
shouldn't try to watch it. You HAVE TO watch it. Otherwise you've lived
for nothing.

******
10 January 2010
9
Seven is brilliant across all Academy Award categories with a few minor
flaws such as why, at the end, the antagonist needed to be taken far
from the claustrophobic city to a spacious, if poignant setting under
rural power lines, in order to make his point? Are we supposed to
conclude subconsciously that the urban breakdown of ethical behavior is
due to, um, the unalterable march of electric civilization? And I'm not
certain that the final two victims fit into the seven deadly sins
categories without a pry bar. My main criticism of the film is the
unrecognized cliché premise that evil possesses genius, particularly
serial psycho killer evil, which, since the Hitchcock's "Psycho", seems
to have become an attitudinal paradigm. Hey, people, serial killers are
brain damaged schlemiels who don't get caught right away, not due to
any innate off the charts Hannibal Lector intelligence, but because law
enforcement can be klutzy too. I don't like the social programming that
is inherent in this thematic stereotype. Evil is stupid, get over it.

******
8 January 2010
9
We have here, an excellent crime movie, one of the very best of the
genre.The story is very very good, has a little tense and mystery, I really
loved that, makes your spine shiver. It's an intelligent title, not
very fast, but not to slow either, the dialogs are great, we had even a
few good jokes, and the ending... well, seems like Kevin Spacey is the
ending man, cause there are 4 films which quickly comes to mind in
which we was the key piece of brilliant endings: "The Usual Suspects",
"Seven", "K-pax", "The Life of David Gale".He shows us one more time, that along with Tom Hanks and Danzel
Washington, truly is one of the best actors of the 90's. I like him so
much because, most often, he talks rarely, but still manages to
transmit a huge amount of information through para-verbal ways of
expressing message : face, eyes, mimic, gestures, head position. etc,
just like in "Seven". His interpretation was absolutely marvelous, he
suggested to me that specific madness, a serial killer has. The duo
Pitt-Freeman was good to, not as good as Spacey' performance as the
antagonist, but close enough. As for Gwyneth Paltrow, she always had
consistent, key roles with great influence on the plot: "The talented
Mr Ripley", "A perfect Murder", "Shakeaspeare in Love", not the case
here, and you will see why (those of you who didn't see it yet).I didn't really like the ending, as a human being, it was sick, crazy,
horrible. However judging from a distant angle, besides the repulsion ,
I think it was spectacular, I really appreciated it, because it
launched one big message: that a human being can hold on being lucid,
only when balanced, when he knows that the persons he loves most are
safe. If not, he is driven by emotion and impulse.This title doesn't focus on the police investigation as on the killer
psychology, that is what makes it so special. No shootings, just a
twisted sick puzzle, with an extraordinary depressing ending.As an end, I liked this thriller-drama, because it was a realistic,
psychological, crime experience, which showed all of us the human
condition, the unimaginable, disgusting thinks a man can do. I rate
this a well deserved 9/10.

******
24 December 2009
7
Two cops are after a killer who is choosing his victims based on each
of the seven deadly sins. This pretty much sums up the plot. I highly
doubt that director David Fincher is an amoral misanthropic person, but
he does want his audience to be disturbed. Se7en, is a good example of the right way to construct a thriller. It
is potent and eerie, superbly crafted, nicely paced, even scary at
times. The climax feels a little overly contrived as so many do, but I
didn't feel cheated too badly. The movie ends on a bit of a funny note
and when you stop to think about it, it leaves some things unexplained. As far a cop buddies go, I can't say that Brad Pitt and Morgan Freemon
make a great pair. A film like Se7en requires two lead actors of equal
talent, and Pitt is no match for Freemon, although that is just my
opinion.Se7en is a movie that sinks its teeth in deep, and it provides enough
fascination to keep a good viewer in his seat for the duration of two
hours, but it is not a film for the religious, the squeamish or the
weak of mind.

******
18 December 2009
8
A highly effective mix of brooding atmosphere, schlock parody and
cop-movie that is given its thrills by its intriguing premise about a
serial killer committing his crimes based on the seven deadly sins. The
narrative moves efficiently along providing the necessary shock moments
and the work of everyone involved shows a happy center, but it is
Fincher's directorial touch that gives the film its sensational and
memorable aspects. I cannot fail to point out, however, that the film
has been strangely overrated over the years, even being compared to
that other excursion into the schizo realms, "Silence Of The Lambs". It
is not "The Silence Of The Lambs" by any stretch of the imagination,
but it can surely be appreciated for what it is: A graphic
Lovecraft-like tale set in a gritty world.

******
7 December 2009
10
I watched this disc with the isolated score track, so that's why I
wrote a summary out of left field. I'm a David Fincher nut and if he
directed the Yellow Pages, I'd be there waiting to see it. (In an
amusing analogy, Samuel L. Jackson was on a talk show over a decade
ago, I think it was "Vibe", and he read out loud from those pages and
it was great!)So when Fincher, who's one of the few to earn the right to be called
visionary, makes a movie, it's an event. "SE7EN" is full of vile
images, depraved people and an outright hideous aura of urban hell. The
desire to help, if you could call what homicide detectives work at
help, is at the core of this sin in seven parts picture. Morgan Freeman is such a commanding actor, you'd believe him in just
about any part. Here he is, tired, ready to exit the blood soaked
carpet of police work, even if his soul will never truly let him walk
away from it. He'd be in his den, looking at crime scene photos from
some long ago unsolved mystery and put in triple overtime in the unpaid
retired police department.Brad Pitt's character can stand to learn a lot from his senior partner,
but he can't settle down or wait unless he absolutely has to. His
impetuousness almost gets them in over their heads and John Doe (played
by you know who) enjoys the sick game he unfurls like some epic
serialized saga from the bowels of hell. Pitt and the mystery man are
on a collision course and something has got to give.This film is so rich visually and it's bizarre to call a tour of the
evil human soul yanked out for all to witness "rich". Try to forget any
shot you've ever seen from a Fincher picture and it's pretty much
impossible. The man's style is like the old masters painting on
celluloid."SE7EN" is best appreciated after a while without having watched it, at
least that's how I approach the repeated views. Andrew Walker gave us a
script which pretty much is the best fictional interpreting of a
madman's mind. I doubt anyone will come up with anything more
devilishly clever.

******
7 November 2009
10
I have to say that this movie is so well done, everything carefully
planned, it is for me Flawless! The idea itself is very unique, and the
killings are very imaginative. While watching this movie, I was told it
is best, not to miss a minute of this movie, for every scene, every
moment, is a valuable clue to solving a mystery. This movie is amazing.
One thing about the movie is that it is very dark, as in simply colour,
even in bright daylight, scenes are dark. The sets are very good, and
the acting is great, Brad Pitt suits the part perfectly. It could not
have been done better. The ending, however is just overpowering,
just.... fantastic! The twist at the end is never to be expected, not
one human on this earth could have guessed it, this movie is so
cleverly made, I recommend this to almost anyone, that loves a mystery,
and some gore, as well, as a movie with wonderful structure.

******
6 November 2009
10
Critics often write or at least used to write that a movie was a
triumph. If there has ever been a movie, worth this compliment, it's
this one. Not only does John Doe triumph, but the triumph of this film
is that it is as clear a case as if it had been worked on by William
Somerset himself. It is a unreal world, raining constantly, in every
direction only buildings, no nature visible. People live in constant
din, dogs live in the living room. FBI-Agents are greasy and being paid
off, as are junkies so that the police can hide their illegal methods.
Somerset is one who is able to recognize the paradox of this world, but
as he sympathizes with apathy he does not react, maybe because he
doesn't know how. John Doe eventually starts wicked measures. He seems
to combine Somerset's cognition and Mills' zest for action. David
Fincher found impressing images for this complex plot and composed them
together in a ingenious way. He achieves to tickle the best of the
craftsmanship out of Pitt and Freeman. In it's whole appearance the
film illustrates how it has been a landmark for the thriller genre,
besides "The Silence Of The Lambs", being it's main reference.

******
4 October 2009
10
Although I agree with the majority of the critics that "Se7en" (1995)
is one of the outstanding horror movies of our time, I still have to
warn to overrate it. It is definitely not a masterpiece like, e.g.,
Murnau's "Nosferatu", where you will remember the first appearance of
Max Schreck in the gate with a far remote camera until your last day.First, I do not understand why it was considered necessary to put a
subsidiary story into the main story. "Se7en" has a default dramaturgy,
due to the 7 sins, as, e.g. "The Lodger" (2007) has a default
structure, due to the killings of Jack the Ripper, not to mention the
"Zodiac" killer movies, etc. Why was it necessary to put the character
of Brad Pitt besides the character of Morgan Freeman? Both are in the
rank of detectives - the older is a highlight, the younger a zero - the
older stands above marriage, the younger is unable to be a good husband
and future father and meanwhile enjoys his three of four dogs. But not
enough with that: The writer of "Se7en" considered it also important to
build in a cross-relation, when Paltrow's character contacts Freeman
without letting know Pitt. This one scene as well as their common
gathering for a dinner are without any sense for the story, it is
painful for Freeman's character - and for the real audience.Second, after having watched this movie a second time, it has lost all
of its initial effects. This has nothing to do with the fact that the
highlights of the killings as well as the killer are known now. Movies
like "Se7en" or "Silence of the Lambs", in opposition to, e.g., "The
Ring", have simply not enough glue to stick so in your head so that you
can watch enjoy "Nosferatu", "It's a wonderful life", "My cousin
Vinnie", "As good as it gets", only to mention so few. What is it that
makes a film stick in your head? What is this semiotic glue that makes
the film go on in your head when you leave the cinema or take out the
DVD from the player? If someone would find the mechanism, it would be
easy to construct ideal movies that would guaranteed be block-buster
hits.

******
14 September 2009
9
David Fincher's frightening 1990's detective thriller, Se7en, is easily
one of the most underrated and overlooked films in the genre.Like the 1991 best picture winner, The Silence of the Lambs, Se7en,
concerns another mad killer, this time with the moniker, John Doe.It's up to the two lead detectives, Somersett, and Mills to find him.SPOILERS: In an east coast city (the name is never revealed, but, it's
very likely NYC) A mass murderer is leaving dead bodies with revealing
clues as to their behavior for the police.Police homicide veteran, William Somersett who is days from retirement
has been asked to find the killer along with new rookie, David Mills,
played by Brad Pitt.Through a series of clues, and very dark subplots we find that the
police have actually become the pawns in a very dangerous game.I will not reveal the shocking ending, but to say it's one of the best
twists in this genre is an understatement. John Doe can take his place
alongside Hannibal Lecter for pure unrelentling evil.One of my favorite thrillers of the 1990s.A 9 on a scale of 1-10.

******
5 September 2009
9
This movie is incredible! Since it must be viewed with an open mind,
this movie is not for everyone. It's dark, gory, and downright
disturbing; however, none of that takes away from the fact that it is
magnificent. Brad Pitt plays a detective new on the force, and Morgan
Freeman plays his partner and mentor. These two men are clearly from
opposite ends of the spectrum, which makes the plot even more
interesting. Together, the detectives slowly enter the mind of a killer
who patterns his crimes after the Seven Deadly Sins. Kevin Spacey plays
the insanely psychotic killer who has a surprise twist for the
detectives. The climax of Seven is unlike any movie or book out there.
It will leave you begging for more. This movie is for anyone that can
handle a little bit of gore and a lot of suspense!

******
4 September 2009
10
I had read the hype for this film and for the most part it was positive
but like most people I wanted to see it for myself. I was not
disappointed because for me it is a story which could be told in any
time period. The three main characters for me were perfectly drawn and
in some ways you could describe the film as the good the bad and the
ugly 1995. These are the three characters you would probably see if the
film was made fifty years ago or in fifty years from now. All three
play their parts very well and the whole experience is an enjoyable
tale. The film is only just over two hours but it seemed longer to me
and although once you have seen the film you will know the ending it
doesn't mean that you cant watch it again. If the film is quality like
this one you can just enjoy it because it is that good. It holds your
attention and anybody watching should just let it envelop them. I
thoroughly recommend this film to anyone over 18 and once you have seen
it you will know why.

******
9 August 2009
7
In "Seven," it's always raining. Some parts take place in daylight, but
the world is dark, gloomy, and decrepit. And this makes for a dark and
disturbing thriller.Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is trying to finish up his
last week before he retires. To that end, he shows his replacement,
Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt). But before introductions are over,
they are facing a brilliant killer with a diabolical plan.David Fincher is known for his visually arresting and atmospheric
films, and "Seven" is no different. This is a film that is drenched in
atmosphere and menace. From the first frame, it is clear that this will
not be a happy movie, but one filled with violence and menace. But for
all the effort that goes into the film's look, it's not that involving.
And that is the film's biggest problem. "Seven" is still a good film,
containing many moments of genuine suspense, and it's always engaging.In murder mysteries, the protagonists are usually stock characters,
leaving the only real acting to the villain. Not so here. Mills and
Somerset are clearly different, and Pitt and Freeman are up to the task
of making them seem different. Somerset is quiet, reflective and
patient. Mills is the exact opposite: arrogant, hyper and quick to
action. He only wants the answers, but not the context to understand
the kind of person he's pursuing. Gwyneth Paltrow is largely wasted,
but she makes full use of what she's given.Many thrillers have unexpected plot twists, and "Seven" is no
different. DO NOT, under ANY circumstances, allow anyone to reveal the
last 20 minutes to you. The film's ending is one of the greatest twist
endings in film history."Seven" is a unique thriller, and a pretty good one at that. But it
could have been a lot more.

******
17 July 2009
8
Brad Pitt and especially Morgan Freeman were wonderful in this film.
The plot was intriguing and the background score was also good. But
after seeing quite a number of films with shocking endings I have to
say I saw it coming. But still its a great film. Considering it was
made in 1995, David Fincher did a tremendous job in making a visually
stunning film. Kevin Spacey who plays the diabolical yet misunderstood
serial killer was awesome in every way you can imagine. Definitely one
of the best murder-mystery drama out there. Inspired by the seven
deadly sins, the film follows two Cops, one on the verge of retirement
and the other newly transfered as they try to solve the mystery behind
the serial killing of various unrelated people. If you like crime
drama, this film is a MUST WATCH.8.3/10

******
23 June 2009
10
"If we catch John Doe and he turns out to be the devil, I mean if he's
Satan himself, that might live up to our expectations, but he's not the
devil. He's just a man."  Detective SomersetSeven days. Seven deadly sins. Seven murders. Someone has a message and
wants to be heard loud and clear. It's up to seasoned detective William
Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and cocky newcomer David Mills (Brad Pitt) to
track down the killer, who in the end, proves to be anything but
ordinary and routine.Directed by David Fincher ("Fight Club") and drawn from a script by
Andrew Kevin Walker ("8mm"), "Se7en" is perhaps one of the most
unsettling, most gruesome and most unforgettable thrillers to come from
the 90's. Giving even "The Silence of the Lambs" a run for its money,
Fincher's film is chock full of moody atmosphere and gloomy set-pieces.
Rarely do the two detectives stumble into a brightly lit room, and the
rain that plagues their non-descript, crime-filled city refuses to let
up until the killer is revealed. Coming off of the troubled production
that was "Alien 3," Fincher was given a second shot, and with this
film, defines a style all his own that had been plagiarized to death by
the turn of the century. The cinematography and ambient direction are
fresh for its time and hold up today  at fourteen years old, the film
still looks stunning  and serves up a truly unique experience. The
world created in this film may be too much to stomach for some, as it
shows humanity at its worst with a serial killer who considers himself
a hero, a savior even. Occasionally the film breaks for some slight
situational humor that only serves to further humanize our two main
leads, but for the most part, it's a wholly disturbing and
gut-wrenching experience, right down to the final reveal of the killer
and the inescapable ending.In a way, "Se7en" could be seen as the anti-"Lethal Weapon" -- A
buddy-cop comedy without the comedy or the buddies. Instead, our
well-worn pro, just six days from retirement, has been beaten down and
drained by the world he lives in and is only leaving the job to salvage
what humanity is left inside of himself. The arrogant new guy is fueled
by past successes and a hunger for action that perhaps his older
counterpart once had but tragically lost. The shocking ending only
serves to juxtapose the two characters. Morgan Freeman is solid as
always, while Brad Pitt overacts the part just a hair. Gwyneth Paltrow
plays Pitt's wife sweet and as human as possible, while Kevin Spacey
has a role in this film that can only be described as iconic. With a
great cast under the brilliant direction of a budding, young and
talented director, "Se7en" is as close to perfection as the
horror/thriller genre gets.

******
22 June 2009
8
David Fincher's "Seven" has become something of a modern classic since
its release nearly 15 years ago. The film focuses on a pair of
detectives tracking a serial killer who has drawn his inspiration from
the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed, sloth, envy, wrath, pride &
lust.The cast is a pretty good one. Morgan Freeman is excellent in the role
of a burnt-out cop on his way out the door as soon as he trains in his
replacement (Brad Pitt). Pitt does a good job as a brash young
detective itching for a shot at a big-time case. Gwyneth Paltrow, as
Pitt's wife, delivers a solid performance and the rest of the cast is
about average. It should also be noted that the (Oscar-winning) actor
who plays the killer isn't listed in the opening credits, so that's a
bit of a surprise for the audience.The screenplay is quite clever but that cleverness almost seems at odds
with the film's gritty realism. The killer's intricate plans are the
sort of thing that you only encounter in the movies. The characters are
somewhat clichéd and Freeman is handed a few well-worn lines that I
think only he could have pulled off. Given this shortcoming, the ending
succeeds more through shock value than in creating a response based on
our attachment to the characters.Fincher's direction is well-handled throughout and merges with the
cinematography and editing to create a unique, atmospheric look. While
there may be a bit of an emphasis on style over substance the director
manages to keep from going overboard. The soundtrack also contributes
greatly to the atmosphere, mixing contemporary music and an effective
score from Howard Shore."Seven" is indeed a quality thriller but I would hesitate to rank it
alongside the likes of "The Silence of the Lambs". Thus, I think that
the current IMDb ranking (#32) is unreasonably high but I do recommend
the film.

******
11 June 2009
10
Director David Fincher entered the world of directing on the heels of
one of the most classic American Sci-Fi franchises of all time, the
Alien series. He followed James Cameron's classic "Aliens" with the not
quite as critically acclaimed Alien 3. However, he has since shown us
that he can indeed compete with the likes of Cameron and other A-list
directors. He is most widely known for the immense cult classic "Fight
Club" and Oscar monster "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button", but his
first stand-alone film after Alien 3 was the brilliant and classy crime
thriller "Seven." This film proves that right from the start Fincher
was a force to be reckoned with. This of course isn't to underplay the
excellence of the screenwriter, Andrew Kevin Walker, or the intense and
spine-tingling score by Howard Shore, or the excellent performances by
all actors, including the actor who plays the killer (as the actor was
kept under wraps during the marketing for this film, and isn't in the
credits until the very end, i won't reveal who it is but it's one of my
person favorites). This movie is a prime example of all elements of
great film-making coming together to make something that is simply
beautiful.Probably the strongest element of this film is the way it unfolds.
"Seven" is a master class in story-telling. The plot is handled with
care and expertise. Fincher knows just the right times to be subtle,
and make you really pay attention to catch everything, and then when to
throw something directly in your face. While the film tells the story
of probably one of the most sadistic and disturbing serial killers of
all time, none of the killings are actually shown on screen. Instead,
the film crew used other means of conveying the gruesome details,
things like dialogue and pictures. It gives the characters a much
better chance to drive the story forward, and it forces you to use your
imagination which makes the more disturbing points all the more
haunting.While this film really is not an action movie, the small bit of action
there is in the film is very exciting, and the dark, haunting nature of
the film will leave a lasting impact on you for sure. This is helped
along by Howard Shore's subtle yet fantastic score.Seven is without a doubt one of the greatest murder mysteries ever
filmed. It is a lesson in suspense and plot-development and a triumph
for all involved in its making. Make no mistake, this is not a happy
film, but it's a must-see for all true fans of good cinema.

******
8 May 2009
9
You have to start with the key thing. This movie has one of the most
stupendous endings you're ever going to see. Thrilling, revolting,
excruciating. You can put yourself in the place of any of Pitt, Freeman
or Spacey and it just has to play out this way. The unbelievable
tension is created in a seemingly static situation. Spacey and Freeman
watch Pitt. Pitt knows he's being gamed, knows what he must not do, for
everyone's sake, and yet, the provocation! Who could not respond to
that provocation? When I feel myself doing the stupid, irrational
thing, I often think of this movie. Maybe this is the layman's example
of temporary insanity, when a totally understandable emotional force
overwhelms one's intellect.Wonderfully acted of course by Freeman and Spacey and Pitt. In my
opinion, pretty much the only Brad Pitt movie I would say that about,
maybe save Thelma and Louise. Spacey's psychotic intellect suggests the
more famous Dr. Lecter, though Spacey doesn't have as much time or
cards to play in his end-of-movie role.

******
1 May 2009
8
The general plot if you were asked to explain the film in a few seconds
would be something along the lines of Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are
two cops on the trail of a serial killer.At first this sounds uninteresting to film lovers who wish for
something other than a basic Mel Gibson and Danny Glover romp , which
from the films brief plot explanation i previously wrote could fool
some into thinking that is exactly what they will receive. However,
this film is as far from an uninteresting romp as can be.I am willing to bet that there is no one who can walk away from this
film and have it not stay with them for a life time. Not only is it
shocking and almost hypnotic in its gripping direction, it will also
make the viewer question the world and how society really works within
it.Morgan Freeman plays an old Policeman who has seen far to much of the
darkness in the world, so much so, that he is starting to believe that
darkness is all that remains in it. This draws him to a decision to
retire and leave police work behind, bringing along his replacement
Detective Brad Pitt. They do not immediately get along (but don't worry
he doesn't jump off a roof with a suicide jumper to gain respect from
his ageing partner) but due to their joint discovery of a body, they
are forced into each others company.They soon come to the conclusion that a serial killer is on the loose,
and find that for one thing, they share enthusiasm for the job if
nothing else. Freeman's character is fascinated with the Killer, and
his ideas and beliefs realising that the conclusion the killer has come
to in his study of the world is similar to his own, but dealt with in
different ways. Pitt shares no compassion for the killer who is later
discovered to be played by Kevin Spacey in a scene which is very member
able to say the least.The killings are sick and shocking and create a certain amount of
unease while watching. You will dismiss the that no human being in
their right mind could do such a thing, and anyone to commit such acts
would be insane, but i guarantee by the end of the film you will
question this.If you want something interesting as well as fresh to fill your mind
from the world of film i recommend you try this.This film proves that David Fincher films are often fantastic, but only
once sat through to the very end. I do feel with Mr Fincher that the
raw substance that each of his films provide is untasted until a good
hour into his films.This is really a thought provoking, and a fantastic and yet horrifying
masterpiece, but misses out on it's final two stars due to the general
lazing about of the first hour.

******
28 April 2009
10
Se7en is a film released in 1995 which shows that a serial killer is on
the prowl for 7 persons possessing the following sins:
lust,greed,gluttony,pride,envy,wrath and sloth and starring performance
oriented actors like Brad Pitt,Morgan Freeman,and Kevin Spacey.Two detectives,Pitt(David Mills) and Freeman(William Somerset) are
hired to investigate the case and hunt down the serial killer.
Mills,being the arrogant cop and Somerset,more of the mature one.The
plot has been cleverly written and will keep you engrossed right till
the end.The cinematography is of the highest quality and the tight
script writing will keep you guessing.Brad Pitt puts in a sincere performance as David Mills and gives able
support to Morgan Freeman who completely overshadows Pitt and delivers
one of the most brilliant performances of his career as William
Somerset.The surprise package of the movie has to be Kevin Spacey who
is given limited screen presence but yet delivers a haunting and moving
performance.But credit has to be given to David Fincher who has worked
hard on each aspect of the film and directed this movie brilliantly.
One of the highlights of the film is the seven murders being showcased
on the screen perfectly.The climax is one of the best you will ever see
in American cinema and will keep you thinking about it for days.

******
2 April 2009
10
I must say that I consider Brad Pitt as a serious actor. He is not like
the other pretty faces in Hollywood, he actually has talent and does
not depend only in his looks. I think that he is really smart choosing
roles (Fight Club, Snatch, Kalifornia, etc.) with a few exceptions.
Morgan Freeman is really great as well and does his job like nobody
could ever dream.The relationship they develop during the film feels genuine, despite
the clichés. That is the cornerstone in this movie, its authenticity.
What we have here is a masterpiece with its position at the IMDb top
250 very well earned (unlike some other movies). The script exceeded my
expectations, the photograph shows a really depressing place which is
good for setting the mood, and the performances are great. Even if the
movie it's not fast-paced, it managed to capt our attentions. This film
has also one of the best endings in my opinion. I really enjoyed this
movie a lot and I recommend it to everyone.A definitely must see before you die film. It might not disappoint
anyone. This is one of those films that makes you keep thinking about
them hours after you watched it.

******
28 November 2008
8
A first-class high concept thriller from Fincher; only Fight Club can
claim parity.A lot of the 'appeal' of a film like this is in the morbid fascination
of the seven crimes that urge on the misfit detective duo. Cleverly,
Andrew Walker's script tapers these stories into one another. The
performances are super - I feel bound to say what I think, i.e. that
Pitt and Paltrow's performances benefited from their off screen liaison
at the time. There's a reality, a buzz to their love and fears for one
another. Morgan Freeman does his avuncular tough love act very well;
Spacey is a contemptuous, sanctimonious wretch (i.e. he's good too!).Let's be clear though, this is all about Fincher: the creepy designs
novel framing and editing - a wonderful shot when Mills (Pitt) first
goes after a suspect manages to recreate a real, urban version of Saul
Bass' designs for Vertigo with the man in mac and trilby dashing off
into the void. He's got the right people to realise the vision which is
arresting and stylish. 8/10

******
10 August 2008
10
I have always believed that a great movie only comes as a result of not
only good performances plus good script plus entertainment plus novelty
plus technical prowess. All this has to be complemented by what the
movie is trying to say, and on that respect, Se7en is a winner all the
way. I see this movie as a complete portrayal of maturation for Morgan
Freeman's character. Somerset from the initial frames of this movie
constantly mentions the notion of 'I've had enough of this city'. All
these culminates to the scene in the bar between Freeman and Pitt where
Freeman's Somerset talk about apathy and justifies his views of a
trodden world. But the turning point arrives when Mills tells him that
Somerset wants to believe in it so that it justifies his decision to
retire. After that, we see a constant culmination of the dilemma that
Freeman's character undergoes up till the final point, where he remains
calm and doesn't lose his grip on the things that happen around him. It
is a movie about self-realization as to how Freeman realizes for
himself than he is capable to handle even the worst of situations, no
matter how much they hurt him. Morgan Freeman easily delivers a
performance of a lifetime, and David Fincher shows his touches of
brilliance, even though its pretty apparent that a stellar star cast of
Freeman, Pitt, Spacey and Gwyneth easily eluded his direction. The film
would have been a normal fare had any other director taken this
project, because the ending might not have been altered if not for
Fincher. The alteration is beautiful to say the least, this new ending
certainly separates this film from being just another well-made crime
thriller to a meaningful fare with themes regarding humanity and
strength.

******
21 July 2008
8
The seven deadly sins are the subject of David Fincher's enormously
popular and cult hit Se7en. On a side note, I'm not sure how a 7 looks
like the letter V but we digress, I suppose. Moving on, this film is
both terrifying and tragic, and offers a wonderful detective story with
two great performances. Morgan Freeman plays Detective William
Somerset, a patient and by-the-book officer, who makes decisions with
care but is not afraid to act instinctively. Brad Pitt plays Detective
David Mills, the antithesis to Freeman's deductive Somerset. Mills is
rash and often acts impulsively. The interaction between these two
characters develops along with the twisting plot of the film, centering
upon murders based upon the seven cardinal sins.The film is at its core a detective story with two very different men
trying to work with each other to find a serial killer. Like a Silence
of the Lambs, this film uses its characters to develop the plot since
it is the inherent weaknesses of each victim that the murderer bases
his kills upon. Like the detectives, we similarly uncover each murder
and sin, each becoming more grisly than the former. The film does force
us to think a little and make heads and tails of the whole situation.
Do we feel sympathy for these victims who are extreme embodiments of
each respective sin? It's questions like these that make Se7en such a
thought provoker. It is disturbing and relentless, barely giving a
breather to the viewer. Either the two are discovering a murder or they
are fervently trying to connect the dots. The suspense is great and
helps the film nicely overall.The performances turned in by the cast are for the most part, well
done. Freeman plays a little too close to the chest but even so, he
does a good job portraying an intelligent and conservative detective.
Pitt does an outstanding job and gets stronger and stronger as the film
progresses. He really is an officer that I loved to hate so bravo on a
job well done. On the other hand, Gwyneth Paltrow's performance as
Mills' wife, Tracy, is boring and heavy-handed. Both a symptom of the
writing and Paltrow's mediocre acting, Tracy ends up being a character
hard to sympathize with or even feel good for. This does ultimately end
up hurting the film towards the end and it's a shame too. There are
some surprises and twists here so I won't spoil them but do be wary.While the screen writing and characters are fairly strong, the
cinematography is all over the place. The murder scenes are haunting
and baleful, and add a great layer to the film without being
gratuitously grotesque. However, in other parts, the camera work is not
up to par and the film suffers. The whole ending sequence is mishandled
by the camera crew and ends up ruining the whole mystique. The score is
powerful when it needs to be and subtle when it needs to be. In any
case, it is not tremendously memorable but it does give atmosphere to
certain scenes. Some of the dialogue is memorable especially the
closing lines of the film, which help the film finish well.Overall, Se7en, (still don't get the 7 in the middle) is a good strong
film that will disturb and is likely not for the faint of heart. There
are strong performances, unsettling sequences and an overall moody
score that does bolster the visuals. However, a sloppy ending, some
unfulfilled promise from an all-star cast, and some suspect camera work
at times, keep this film from truly being great. Definitely a film
worth checking out though and one that tells a good story with good
characters.

******
18 July 2008
9
David Fincher (Fight Club, Zodiac) brings a disturbing psychological
thriller which stars Brad Pitt (Fight Club, Seven Years in Tibet) and
Morgan Freeman (The Shawshank Redemption, Kiss the Girls) as two
homicide detectives trying to catch a serial killer who bases his
crimes on the Seven Deadly Sins. This film is amazing. You'll be on the
edge of your seat the entire ride.The murders are graphic and disturbing. You never forget this film.
Easily one of the best psychological thrillers of our time. You are
always wondering what will happen next and you never get what you can
comprehend. This film has probably one of the most shocking endings
ever. I highly recommend this movie to thriller fans.9/10

******
6 July 2008
10
A superb movie with plenty of action and plenty of mystery. Morgan
Freeman delivers your moneys worth playing Detective William Somerset.
Brad Pitt delivers a better than beef performance as Mills as well.
What really shocked me (in a good way) was the end scene. Mills and Doe
standing in the desert. Somerset opening the box and coughing. I've
never seen such a look on Morgan Freeman's face. Of disgust. Of shock.
Of terror? And I agree with him. John Doe has the upper hand. But the fact you don't see in the box is the best part. Just amazing.
SEE THIS MOVIE!!! You will love it! P.S.: If you do see this movie,
watch out for the Sloth victim. It will give you a fright. The Lust
victim is also quite creepy.

******
18 June 2008
7
This journey through the mind of a religiously motivated serial killer
who kills his victims based on his interpretation of the Seven Deadly
Sins is a bit uneven in places, but builds very nicely to its ultimate
climax, and I found that the last 20-30 minutes of the movie were very
effective as a closure. The open question as the movie came to its end
was how the murders depicting envy and wrath were going to be
committed. That's done in a quite shocking and horrific way. I can't
say it was a surprise - I guessed what was in the box addressed to
Mills as soon as the box was introduced - but still it was a grand
finale (if one can call it that) to a pretty decent movie.The performances from Morgan Freeman as Detective Somerset and Kevin
Spacey as "John Doe" were especially effective - which they should have
been, since both were pretty standard characters for the actors.
Somerset was the experienced, street-wise detective who dispensed
advice freely, and Spacey was the - well - kind of spacey, quirky
character that he pulls off so well in so many movies. Brad Pitt was
less effective as the young Detective Mills - Somerset's partner. He
wasn't bad, but somehow neither his performance nor the character
connected with me. Gwyneth Paltrow was underused as an actress,
although her character (if not Paltrow herself) plays a central role in
the end.The movie seemed to have a bit of a "Silence of the Lambs" feel to it,
with the serial killer angle and the mind games being played with the
police, and the real attention getter through most of the movie was to
find out how the deadly sins were going to be represented by the
murders that were being committed. I was a little concerned that this
had the potential to turn into little more than a gore-fest, but that
didn't happen. There are some gruesome shots of the victims, but for
the most part the focus was on the psychological dimensions of the
story. All in all I thought this was a very good movie; "Seven" gets a
7 from me.

******
12 April 2007
8
Back in '95 David Fincher released a film named Se7en, following his
cruelly underrated '93 box-office-disaster Alien3 (view the director's
cut and you might understand what I mean). In the sense of the American
film industry, Se7en was the film which established Fincher's talent
and from there on in he had more freedom on the films he wanted to
create.Se7en is a dark tale of morality, depicting two cops who both find
themselves stuck inside a deadly game. One of the cops is Sommerset
(Morgan Freeman), a man planning to retire from the job and the
environment of which he deems unfit and too bleak to live in, a place
where he believes "apathy" is welcomed. The other cop, Mills (Brad
Pitt) has recently required his detective badge and has moved to the
city of Chicago to help bring "light" to the city, while building a
"hero" reputation. Both detectives have different views on the squalid
world they are surrounded by and both use different methods when
performing a task. The detectives soon find themselves obsessed with
capturing a vicious criminal who is terrifying the area with bizarre
"deadly sins" killings and leaving puzzling and mostly unusable
evidence at the scene of the crimes.The narrative which Se7en follows is one that is structured with such
precision that you become apart of the film. The viewer becomes grasped
by the story's compelling nature and the manipulative unanswered
questions. Yet, here lies one of the few faults with Se7en, this being
the film's tendency to lose the connectivity of scenes. At times this
can detract the viewer, while also making subplots feel cut-off and
halted abruptly. Although, this is not too significantly noticeable, it
is still there and something which stops the film deserving a
definitive "masterpiece" status.The film still surges with its constant excitement and attention to
detail, making it a film of such finesse that it remarkably works as a
delicate counter-piece to the horrific story being told. I consider the
pivotal scene in Se7en to be the chase scene, the scene whereby the
viewer captures their first glimpse of John Doe (with the exclusion of
the infamous opening-credits). It is a scene where my adrenaline
started pumping, a scene so expertly thought out with such visceral
realism, taking the characters to their most primitive of instincts.
This is where the set-pieces come in; the set-pieces in Se7en are built
with glaring authenticity and unsettling detail, retaining the
disturbing exuberance the film follows.Se7en is a film that goes leaps and bounds for the modern "cops vs.
criminals" genre; it provides a level of rarely matched excitement and
adrenaline-pumping emotion. It is a film so genuine that by the end of
the film you will have built up a bond with the two protagonists. It is
remarkable just how exact and precise the film is in its style,
atmospherically edited (with the exception of the connectivity) and
wonderfully layered offering much analysis for the viewer. One of the
film's optimum features are the multi-dimensional characters, the
characters of Se7en are ones who you care for and are characters who
have robust personality to study. It is impossible not to adore the
film's appetite for its characters, such as the clashing viewpoints,
offering the viewer to make their own personal judgement and also the
character's reactions to the repulsive behaviour which has engulfed the
city. All this is due to how astonishingly rigorous and convincing the
performances are, the actors all develop their own persona and you have
to take note of the smaller details to gain a true understanding of the
characters.Se7en is a film providing sour, surfaced-toned noir to enable the
merging of absorbing grittiness and "lucid" fantasy, etched with
painful realism. The film details every dark corner, capturing a feel
of vulnerability and the general taste of fear through highly alluring,
yet horribly detached environments, ultimately providing a cold and
painfully evocative atmosphere. The cinematography is rigorous, while
still being very open in its wonderfully "edgy" style. The camera is
fixated on the tiniest detail, capturing the emotion on the lens
through the exposed characters in wide, yet horribly tight
environments. The make-up is just another example of the laborious
amount of time and pre-development which was spent on creating the
film's "gothic fairytale" manner. Even with all the technical
brilliance, it is still the acting which remains the film's finest
feature.More importantly than anything Se7en remains one of the finest films in
its genre, providing a relief from your typically simplistic Hollywood
film. Instead the film offers a depressing morality tale which
motivates the viewer into thinking about what will occur next and
giving you taste of the horrific crimes detectives become obsessed with
solving. Ultimately, few films can succeed in gripping you as much as
the inexplicable brilliance of Se7en.

******
5 February 2007
10
This movie is easily one of my all time favorites. The movie revolves
around two detectives who are trying to solve a series of murders. The
murders all, some way or another, revolve around the seven deadly sins.
In summarizing the plot I am reminded of countless B-movie slasher
movies i have seen. The Killers in those movie always choose their
victims based on some sort of imperfection (Sluts, Rick Kids, Jerks,
etc.), as does the killer in this movie. But this is where this movie
becomes great and what sets it apart from other horror movies. The way
the killer eliminates his victims is both clever and haunting, and the
directer shows very little violence on screen. He leaves the viewer
with blurry and far away pictures depicting what happened at the scene
of the crime, leaving the viewer to conjure up their own gory images.
This is an especially effective technique in this day and age, where
people are often desensitized to violence and can no longer be shocked
by what they see on screen. This movie is truly a modern
masterpiece,with one of the best, most shocking and disturbing endings
i have ever seen.

******
16 October 2006
9
A depressing yet effective thriller with a completely shocking and
disturbing ending that will have you thinking about it for a long time.
Yes that is the simplest way to explain David Fincher's Seven.Seven is a thinking film that will have one questioning society and
life in general. Kevin Spacey plays John Doe, a serial killer, and he
is perfect in the role. He chooses each one of the victims because they
are guilty of each one of the seven deadly sins which include gluttony,
sloth, pride, greed, lust, envy, and wrath. What he does to these
people is downright horrible and utterly disgusting, but he believes
that he is doing God's work by using passages out of books like Dante's
Inferno and others. We as the viewers are disgusted by what he does,
but during his long monoloque near the end we can't help but wonder
that what he's doing seems justifiable in a lot of ways.The detectives on the case are Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and
Detective Mills (Brad Pitt). Both are also great in their roles. They
are hot on John Doe's trail. One, Mills, the new kid on the block, does
his job because he wants to improve things to make the world a safer
place. The other, Somerset, is much older and has a very cynical
outlook on life. Somerset's opinion is that he just wants to retire and
escape from all the madness because he feels nothing will ever get
better. Both of their personalities collide, but they continue to work
together to solve the case.Gwneth Paltrow plays Tracy Mills. She is Mill's wife and hates that
they have moved to the city. Her part in the movie is a small one and a
minor role, but it becomes much more important then anybody could've
ever suspected.This movie, splendidly directed by David Fincher, is dreary, dark, and
depressing, but it is a very well made film which has some very strong
points that it wants to make. It is well paced and filled with subtle
moments that will lead to a very strong impact at the end. I didn't
care to much for Fincher's Alien 3 because of how depressing it was,
but that was a franchise that had already been started and was never
really expected, in my opinion anyway, to take the darker turn that it
does. With Seven we are not making a sequel, so it is a whole new ball
game, and this time Fincher's skill shines through.The ending, as I said above is completely appalling, but it is never
completely unexpected, and that is because of the smaller subtleties
during the movie's running time which helps prepare us for what
happens. I was never caught off guard by what finally happens, and that
is why this film doesn't quite get a perfect rating. However, if
anybody was to ask me if they should see this movie I would say hell
yes. I would also tell them to be prepared for some very nasty scenes
which will make your blood run cold.

******
3 October 2006
10
Of course it would be always possible to lighten up the most grim
subjects in film through means of satire, "Dr Strangelove" for one
probably being the best example. And then there are these razor-sharp
social commentaries made in comic-book style like "RoboCop", "Dawn Of
The Dead" etc, who earn their absolution despite absurdity and all-out
brutality through this superficial realization (and for the same
reasons manage to avoid falling in category of "exploitation"). But I
think that also stories like "Se7en", virtually humorless and emphasis
on realism without having even 'satisfactory' ending, let alone happy
one, are needed, just because they're simply more honest than most
others considering the world we live in.Here the whole theme of desperation has been taken to extreme: in this
unnamed city no matter where you go it's consistently dark and
colorless, even outdoors. It's raining all the time. People seem
cynical at best, while apathy prevails. And out of this cesspool
emerges this horrific punisher of sinners, John Doe, who with his
determination and cleverness puts an average random serial killer to
shame. The situation is so settled, you couldn't identify with
"heroes", detectives Somerset and Mills (wonderfully played by Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt) more. And even they're arguing in almost every
scene and decline to use controversial methods to grab any significant
leads. Here lies the biggest problem of "Se7en", the best serial killer
movie ever: almost none of the policemen seem to get along too well
(which I've always disliked in films because it just isn't so in real
life). Second minor flaw is the hasty handling of the "lust"- and
"pride"-cases which both seem inferior compared to overall tension that
is gradually building.Our only consolation while watching this movie is that it's not a true
story, not even based on one. I myself am thankful for it, since those
which are (e.g. "Henry Lee Lucas", "Ted Bundy") tend to be too
disturbing for me. If I want to get my non-existing kicks from
real-life horrors I can experience them on numerous crime-related
websites. There's no need to visualize everything, I know already
painfully well there are living monsters out there, child-molesters and
-murderers for starters. At least John Doe has an agenda against those
lowest of the lowest, among other sinners, too.

******
1 October 2006
10
This is probably one of my favorite movies of all time but I watched it
the other day with a friend who had never seen it before and he made a
good point. In the end of the movie after he kills DET. Mills wife he
goes into the police station with blood on his hands and he paid a guy
to pick up the box with her head and take it out to the desert but if
he killed her and sealed the box up and paid the guy and went to the
police station with blood still on his hands why isn't there any blood
on the box at the end of the movie. After he pointed that out to me it
bugs me when I watch it now. It's still a great movie even with that
huge error.

******
30 September 2006
7
I can't recall watching a film as cruel, hard and impressive as
"Seven". But I think that in this case if the movie had been "softer"
it would have lost impact and intensity.Definitely a thriller, "Seven" is about the chasing of a serial killer
who brutally murders his victims in a sort of punishment for each one's
different capital sin. The film is very well conducted by director
David Fincher and it is "catching" right from the start. Good sort of
pale color that helps the atmosphere, well handled action sequences and
terrible crime scenes (though they help here to understand how
completely out of his mind the killer is).Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are both good as the policemen in charge
of the case, and Gwynneth Paltrow is a good support with a more
important role than it seems.If you like suspense films and can stand some real hard scenes and a
devastating finale, don't miss this one. Most enjoyable in its genre.

******
31 July 2006
8
I loved Se7en. Engrossing, mysterious plot that you can read about in
other reviews. It's been said enough how excellent this movie is, but I
don't remember reading anything about Brad Pitt's performance being
overrated so I figured I'd share my thoughts. Having seen Fight Club
before watching any earlier Pitt movies, I was mostly disappointed with
Brad's performances (except for a few). His casual conversations and
such in Se7en seemed unique to Pitt (a couple of head scratches,
looking around a lot, very confident dialogue, etc.), but the
emotionally intense scenes (especially the final scene), which are
extremely important, seemed very awkward and unrealistic given the
circumstances of the plot's brutal context. My opinion of Brad Pitt's
less than desirable performance in Se7en didn't ruin the movie for me,
but without the awkwardness delivered in those crucial emotional
scenes, this movie would be a flawless film.

******
31 July 2006
9
Stars: Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, R Lee Ermey and Gwyneth
Paltrow.This is one of the best examples of a good murder mystery. The bad guy
is not revealed (though he can be spotted) until the end, but thats not
the wist. It plays on what we expect. The film is very dark and it's
look and direction is just really great. As for the performances, Kevin
Spacey gives the acting job of his career, but because of his other
nomination, he was unrecognized for this sick role that he plays.
Everyone else does a great job too. The violence in this film is not in
a lot, but it's disgusting violence. I highly recommend this to anyone!
***1/2 out of ****. 120 mins. R for strong violence and language.

******
19 July 2006
8
Spoiler, don't read if you don't want.I really feel that this movie shows some of the best progression (the
only time it isn't raining is the final scene) and individual scenes
(shot of Pitt and Freeman pensive after the LUST interview) that I have
ever seen. The characters were very well developed, and perfectly
foiled-Somerset being very particular about everything and Mills
keeping his ties tied after he takes them off, to name one. All actors
are dead on and couldn't be better. The best part of all is that even
though I guessed the ending as soon as Doe reveled his plea and plan
with Mills and Somerset, I could still not loose interest. Yes, I knew
what was going to happen, but the film is just so good that I stayed
with it.The only thing that really keeps this movie down is that Mills knew he
was going into a very high risk situation for the final scene, but did
not even try to see his wife before he left. The character was
developed to show that he loved her, and she didn't even have a job to
be busy! There is no reason for him not to have seen her before he
left. Because of this gigantic plot hole, I cannot rate this above an
8. If he was developed to not show his love for her, and the ending was
the same, I think it would have been better (Plot and Emotion).

******
21 June 2006
10
Movies, like music, often help to define the decade in which they
originate from. I am 32, so I happen to love a lot of movies from the
80's. Movies like Top Gun, Breakfast Club, St Elmo's Fire, Die-hard and
Lethal Weapon very much define the 80's for me.In my opinion the three most defining movies of the 90's are Pulp
Fiction, Silence Of The Lambs and Se7en. Those three movies best
capture the mood of the 90's. Smart, dark, cool, gritty and witty.
Everything, after all, that the 80's were not (young, dumb and full of
cum).I can best describe the movie Se7en as a combination of Taxi Driver and
Silence Of The Lambs. It is a close look at the ugly underbelly of
society. The people and things we look away from when we pass them by
on the streets. More than that, it is a disturbingly close look at the
ugliness that we all possess on some level.The plot and screenplay in Se7en are superb. The best there is. The
story is simple yet that of genius. A veteran cop (Somerset/Freeman)
serving his final 7 days of duty is paired up with a younger cop
(Mills/Pitt) who is ready to kick the world in the ass and they are
both after a maniacal serial killer who is completing his masterpiece
offing 7 victims for 7 deadly sins. Somerset is jaded and cold while
Mills is eager and hopefull. A perfect match. Somerset is black and
Mills is white. Absolute genius.I can remember being in absolute awe when I first viewed this movie in
the theatre. Nothing I'd seen since Taxi driver compared. It's
unabashed view of society is unparalleled. Even our two "heros" aren't
terribly admirable. I am actually embarrassed to admit that I
understood the serial killers disgust with society during his
explanation of his masterpiece to Somerset and Mills. That's not to say
I justified his actions. And the casting of the serial killer? Again,
absolute genius. Especially because the actor asked that his name not
appear in the movie's advertisements or billing.Se7en is not for the faint of heart, but it IS thoroughly enjoyable for
fans of cinema. It satisfies on every level.

******
19 June 2006
9
This movie is worth the watch. This movie fits in with the best movies
of the 90's and then some. This came from an era of either crappy high
school flicks or serious story lines that got away from the beginning.
This movie ties it all together. The actors themselves are some of the
best in the business. Kevin Spacey plays a phenomenal role, and can be
seen in even better form in The Usual Suspects. Brad Pitt plays an
outstanding role, which was characteristic for him in the mid and late
90's. Mogan Freeman plays an excellent cop, which juxtaposes him
against his portrayal of Red in the Shawshank Redemption, also a
notable viewing.This movie's all-star cast is a great treat, but it does lack in some
development early on in the film. Yet most will not notice it, nor will
they care, as they will either be entranced or sickened, maybe both.

******
17 May 2006
8
Really good thriller with lots of tension.The ending is shocking,not
the sort of ending your hoping for,but one that is mind blowing,and
makes you think.The acting is excellent,especially from Kevin Spacey in
an earlier role,which proves he was destined to become a star.Morgan
Freeman and Gwyneth Paltrow are always good to watch and Brad Pitt is
much better suited in these type of roles,his acting is very convincing
as the young married cop.The only problem i have with this film is the
amount of time the F...word is used,it seems a bit unnecessary,i know
in reality you hear it all the time,but you can get sick of watching
films where its used more than any other word,after all you watch films
to escape the real world.But instead you watch a two hour film and hear
more swearing in a couple of hours than what i hear all day in
work.Other than this its an excellent film.

******
3 May 2006
8
That certain noir feel, tweaked so perfectly, keeps all the richness of
noir and loses the period specific dialogue that makes classic noir
films often feel like cultural artifacts rather than immediately
engaging stories that entertain on their own intrinsic merits. Death by
sin: gluttonous guy eats too much, lustful guy sexes one too many
times, and so on and so on. It's noir without being simply a movie
about movies, without simply being an homage to other moviesit stands
on its own, it has its own aesthetic, it's just that that aesthetic
captures the spirit of luxurious mystery that is associated by film
lovers with film noir. Death by sin: gluttonous guy eats too much,
lustful guy sexes one too many times, and so on and so on.

******
29 April 2006
10
I brought this film from virgin mega-stores not to long ago, for
£3.99... I had heard that it was a classic horror/thriller of the 90's
so i brought it. I went home and watched it that night to find one of
the best movies I have ever seen. you should go out and buy it for a
lot more than that,(but don't because you know that the second you do
you'll turn around and see it for cheaper and then hate yourself for
being impatient.)I had also heard that it was gratuitously gory and violent, upon
watching the film i was pleasantly surprised. In my opinion violence
can be used to great effect, and also ,in my experience, films that
have been certified '18' because of their violence are often over the
top and unnecessary. For example 'Kill Bill' although I found it
entertaining (to a point) you start to think that no character in the
films life is important because they are being disembowelled left,
right and centre, and as soon as you take that away, you take away the
reality of it, because in real life every life matters and you cannot
just chop through 88 people with a samurai sword. So i thought that
this may perhaps be the case for Seven. I was, however, wrong. at
points David Fincher used extreme violence but it works well and makes
the audience root even more for Mills(Pitt) and Somerset(Freeman)
because you want them to solve the crime and be done with this
disgusting world (Morgan Freeman is retiring after the case, and Brad
Pitt's wife wants to go back to the city they recently moved from).Another great thing about Seven is that not only does it thrill and
disturb but it also makes you question the world that we live in. The
film is set in the modern day, but in no particular place. It is a dark
and grim city filled with crime and corruption, and it makes the
audience really think about crime, helped along by Morgan Freemen who
often talks about whether or not crime will stop, or will it go on for
ever and why.The acting is brilliant, the contrast between Mills and Somerset,
Somerset being the old, experienced cop on the verge of retirement and
Mills, the hot-headed rookie. One of my favourite parts is when Morgan
Freeman tells Pitt he should read up on the crimes, and gives him a
list of books to get. Later we see a policeman handing the revision
notes versions of the books (including 'Dante's Inferno') to Pitt.
Kevin Spacy plays 'the bad guy' fantastically, a calm slimy, religious
fanatic, who's voice makes you want to turn the TV off and stop
watching. The end sequence is very emotional and the tension is
increased by a ten minute long car journey with the two heroes in front
and Kevin Spacy in the back cleverly named John Doe, the police slang
for an unidentified body.This is an amazing film, scary, tense thought provoking and even funny
at times, definitely a classic, and if you have £3.99 i know what i'd
spend it on...

******
22 April 2006
8
That certain noir feel, tweaked so perfectly, keeps all the richness of
noir and loses the period specific dialog that makes classic noir films
often feel like cultural artifacts rather than immediately engaging
stories that entertain on their own intrinsic merits. Death by sin:
gluttonous guy eats too much, lustful guy sexes one too many times, and
so on and so on. It's noir without being simply a movie about movies,
without simply being an homage to other moviesit stands on its own, it
has its own aesthetic, it's just that that aesthetic captures the
spirit of luxurious mystery that is associated by film lovers with film
noir. Death by sin: gluttonous guy eats too much, lustful guy sexes one
too many times, and so on and so on.

******
5 April 2006
10
7 gruesome murders. Each gruesome for any number of reasons.One of the darkest and most disturbing thrillers ever, David Fincher's
Se7en set a benchmark when released that has rarely if at all been
matched since. In only his second ever film, Fincher takes us on a
roller-coaster ride of religious fanaticism that shocks, intrigues and
horrifies the audience. Morgan Freeman is a week away from retirement. Brad Pitt is a week away
from replacing him. The pair form an unlikely pair during the curious
case of a morbidly obese man who appears to have been forced to eat
himself to death. Somerset (Freeman) believes that it is the beginning.
Mills (Pitt) thinks that it is simple ironic torture. However, a second
man is found bled to death, with greed written on the crime scene
floor. A second trip to the first location reveals the word gluttony
behind a fridge. Soon the unlikely duo find themselves hunting a killer
who appears to be using the seven deadly sins as both his template and
as a murder weapon.Fincher's piece of cinematic brilliance is a roller-coaster ride of
exhilaration, shock, revulsion and curiosity, and shows a flair of
direction that Fincher would later show in Fight Club. His use of
directorial techniques, such as his eradication of colour and light
from his dark, wet and gloomy sets creates a near nightmare like
brooding universe which simply adds to the sinister nature of the
investigation. Unsurprisingly, the murders are horrific to say the
least, although much is actually left to the audience's imagination.
The unconventional partnership of Freeman and Pitt is entertaining,
with Pitt resenting Freeman's almost patronising wisdom, with Freeman
hating Pitt's gung ho, unsubtle attitude. Both excel in their roles, as
does Gwyneth Paltrow as Mills' frustrated wife. R. Lee Ermey and John
C. McGinley, are, much like the rest of the supporting cast, well
judged and make good work of their small roles. However, the most eye
catching performance is by the unexpected Kevin Spacey as the killer.
Although he doesn't have much screen time, he is terrifying as the
righteous and almost serene John Doe, convinced that he is doing God's
work, and carrying it out with cold cunning and confirmed enthusiasm.
It's this planning that paves way for the stunning conclusion, that is
both shocking and brilliantly set up.The big star, though, is Fincher. The director redeems himself
brilliantly following the much slated Alien 3, using unconventional
techniques ,the creation of a sinister atmosphere, his control of
events as well as the pacing that help make the film so memorable. That and the seven gruesome murders, of course.

******
18 March 2006
9
Writing a review for this movie seems to be almost as difficult as the
exercise of watching it. No, please do not take it in the negative
sense. But the adjectives that come to the mind when thinking about the
movie are very mixed, "Brilliant", "Grotesque", "Depressing", "Brutal",
"Unique". The story is that of a psychotic killer, whose each kill is a
'modern day' representation of the original Seven sins from the ancient
texts. The sins are Gluttony, Sloth, Greed, Pride, Lust, Envy and
Wrath. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are the two homicide detectives
that have been assigned this case. In fact, it is Morgan's last case,
as he is due to retire soon. The case becomes more and more intriguing
as each murder unfolds. Each murder is more gruesome and more gory than
the previous one. (I must say at this point that it has been one of the
most difficult movies to watch. Watching it alone at night ,as I did,
is definitely not recommended.) By this time audience is certain that
the killer is brilliant but a very twisted guy. A very clever technique
employed by the director here is that he has not shown any crime being
done in action, all are just the post murder shots of the dead. Just
the level of detailing shown in the movie makes an amazing treat.
Morgan Freeman is as usual very good. But it is Brad Pitt that really
shows amazing acting abilities especially during the last part of the
movie, the final confrontation scene between Brad, Morgan and the
killer. Having said that movie belongs to the killer, who is the
eventual winner (you will have to see the movie to find that out).
Kevin Spacey as the killer has only around 15-20 minutes of the role
during the end. But by Jove, he does carry it off amazingly well. While
watching the movie, I was really wondering how would the director show
the viciousness of the killer, which he has shown earlier during the
murders. But Spacey carries it out with ease. He is a rare breed of an
actor. A class apart. One had to just look in to his eyes and the
expressions on his face, to become convinced that he is same person
that performed all those murders. Also worth mentioning is how well the
movie ends. The last sequence, the last two murders ( or should I say
the Sins) are a treat to watch. What an ending. In the end, I would
like to quote the brilliant director himself, Mr David Fincher, to
understand why the movie is so dark, stark and gruesome. "I don't know how much movies should entertain. To me I'm always
interested in movies that scar. The thing I love about JAWS is the fact
that I've never gone swimming in the ocean again."

******
15 March 2006
9
Seven, or "Se7en" if you like your movies to have numbers sprinkled
randomly in their titles, has Morgan Freeman in it.Need I say more?Okay, it does also have Brad Pitt, who is doing his usual early Brad
Pitt schtick of acting a bit like a spastic heroin-addicted monkey.Anyway, Morgan Freeman. Also, Morgan Freeman and Morgan Freeman's
brilliant portrayal of Morgan Freeman.To be fair, the Morgan Freeman is not just about Morgan Freeman. It's
also got a lot of sweet, inventive death in it of the most awesome,
disturbing kind. Apparently, it has something to deal with Keyser Soze,
but I wasn't paying that much attention to the plot when I watched it.
I was more just gawking at the awesome production design, (Satan wishes
Hell looked this awesome) and the awesomeness of the disturbingness,
and the awesomeness of the Morgan Freeman. That Fight Club guy directed this, so it looks like the most depressing
Sprite commercial ever. There's a lot of rain, which is sort of cool,
and it also has Gunnery Sergeant Hartman in it, which is really cool.
Although he should have gouged out John Doe's eyes and done that skull
thing to him. That would have made it cooler. Or Brad Pitt's eyes.
Either way it's equally cool.But mostly this Morgan Freeman is pretty Morgan Freeman.

******
8 March 2006
9
this is a very high quality thriller with an excellent cast. morgan
freeman is very good as are brad pitt, kevin spacey and other members
of the cast. I watched this on DVD, with dolby digital ex and dts 6.1
surround sound. The quality of the sound is very good and very cinema
like. The surround sound is excellent, and gives you a feel of the
atmosphere and its surroundings. One hears the bells as the train goes
by, the sound of traffic and the other many subtle sounds that give the
film its ambiance. Its a difficult film to understand at first, and may
require more than one viewing to fully grasp. There is a wonderful
chemistry between morgan and brad, the likes of which i have not seen
in a thriller since.This is a very good DVD to own.

******
5 February 2006
10
This picture wants a piece of all of us and it gets it. It's relentless
in what it depicts and I think it's one of those cases when the overall
result somehow surpasses the original intent of the filmmakers, however
great that intent was. It's an unflattering depiction of our society, a
picture of the world which happens to be the point of view of a serial
killer. His world is dark, but made so by the so-called human beings
infesting it - all the banality, the apathy, the self-interest of our
species is on full display here. The city in this film is in a state of
perpetual decay; all we seem to see are rotting walls and buildings on
the verge of crumbling. But this is just a surface corrosion, a
reflection of what really ails all of us, which is the corruption of
our souls. The serial killer is just a natural extension of society
here. It comes as no surprise that he exists. We've made our hell on
Earth and the killer is just one of the elements existing to fall
neatly into place in the center of it all.Under the guise of a police procedural, director Fincher and the
screenwriter unveil this grim world for us. This was not a reworked
draft which fell into the common pitfalls of a standard chase at the
end or a last minute rescue. No, none of that same old Hollywood stuff
here. The nasty foreboding probably surfaces around the time we get to
know a little about young detective Mills (Pitt) and his pretty wife
(Paltrow), through the eyes of hardened veteran detective Somerset
(Freeman). It's hinted that the young couple have recently moved into
the big city from a more rural area, into the typical squalid apartment
lifestyle prevalent in this grimy city. Maybe some alarm bells go off
in the back of the audience's mind by this point: we don't think this
couple should be in this city. What in the blazes are they really doing
in this hellhole? Why didn't they stay where they belonged, close by
that high school where they met? Pitt is pretty good as the less
experienced cop, not too intelligent but struggling anxiously to be in
the big leagues. He does OK, but the film belongs to Freeman, who
cannot strike a wrong note as the older weary policeman. This becomes
the essential Freeman role, that of a man who perhaps has seen too much
in his lifetime, but his keen intelligence cannot allow him to simply
give up and throw in the towel, no matter how close he gets to that
point. Freeman manages to convey a poetic disposition towards decency
and civilization, as with most of his roles, but it's never more
effective than here, when the entire world assails him with barbarism
and anarchy.It's little surprise that much of the style of this film was copied
over the next few years, including even the unusual credits sequence.
The bulk of the film details the serial killer's masterpiece of murder,
a pattern following the seven deadly sins. While interesting in itself
and grisly in the depiction of murder as an artistic creation, we
realize by the climax that it was all simply a preparation for the
truly horrific crowning achievement of killer John Doe's final act.
It's a shock at the end which still sends shivers down my spine no
matter how many times I watch it. Perhaps meant for repeat viewings
after the initial shock, the film serves to remind us we live (or just
exist) in that chaotic charnel house we usually try not to think about.
When all the surface gloss is peeled away and we gaze with unfiltered
eyes at the unpleasant truth laid bare before us, we see John Doe
smirking at us, holding a box.

******
29 January 2006
10
About a year ago I got hooked on a movie called "Saw.". It's a
excellent movie and this movie has been compared to it (or vis versa).
I watch this movie and my shocked at it. This movie is so amazing! At
first I thought it was just another "slash um and kill um" movie with
no point what so ever, but it had a message. The bad guy, John doe
(kevin spacey) kills someone for each sin (gluttony, greed, sloth,
lust, pride, envy, and wrath).For gluttony, he forces an obese man to keep eating until he dies. He
gives him a barf bucket when for when he throws up. He dies eating
spaghetti.For greed, he makes a defense attorney Eli Gould cut off a pound of
flesh. Eli takes it from his love handles but he cuts to deep and cuts
open his stomach.For sloth, he ties a gay (uncomfermed but its implied) drug dealer to
his bed for a year and hardly feeds his to the point where he eats his
own tongue for food. He is found in his own apartment, thought to be
dead, but is actually alive (not by much). It is later confirmed that
he is brain dead.For lust, he gets this belt strap-on thing and puts in on same poor
smuck and makes him have sex with the lust victim (a prostitute). Did I
mention that there is a knife where the dildo should be? For pride, he
gets a very vain model and cuts up her face and cuts of her nose. He
then tells her that she has a choice: call 911 and look disfigured for
the rest of your life or take a bunch of sleeping pills and end it now.
She takes the pills.Dectective Somerset (morgan freeman) and Dectective Mills (brad Pitt)
have to find the killer and stop him before he kills all seven sins.A class A movie and an easy watch for people who like gore. It's great
for older, strong stomached people. So don't take your 12 year old to
see it.

******
20 November 2005
10
The first of its kind, and the best of its kind of movie did not let
down for a minute. A movie based on the seven deadly sins was put
together so well that i had to watch it 2 maybe 3 times to savor the
utter joy of the movie. Today, this movie has been combined along with
the ring to form a movie called saw. If seven was not made, the
horror/drama business would be in such a dilemma they would be
scratching their heads looking for ill-gotten answers that would have
eluded them if not for this movie. I highly recommend the likings of
the movie and if you are into the jump in your seat, and highly
suspenseful ending movies then you are absolutely sure to love this
movie. A+

******
15 November 2005
10
i thought that this was and excellent movie. David Fincher does an
amazing job at holding your attention with horrific but yet cultivating
scenes. And the combo of Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman is exhilarating i
rated this movie a ten easily. The point of it is not to scare but to
teach the audience that there are killers out there with the intent to
kill gruesomely for the benefit of making a name for themselves. Kevin
Spacey who plays the murder in this film does an amazing job. He has to
get the point across to the audience that he is a highly intelligent
person but at the same time also insane. This movie really gives us a
first hand look at the darker more menacing side of crime mysterious.

******
25 October 2005
10
***Spoiler warning***If we go all the way to the end we finally get an idea of what happens
with humans. We all are bad, we all have a little evil into our brains
or behind our ear that says constantly: Kill that guy, you got to kill
it, kill it!!! David Fincher learned a lesson after direct (and almost
terminated) the third movie of the Alien franchise, so he waited to
have a good finished screenplay to work with. His next job is now one
of the best 50 movies of all time (if Saw doesn't take the place sooner
or later). The idea of the screenplay is simple, not very twisted (with
the plot) but enough interesting at visual level to make it dark,
moving, brainy and scary. Using the seven sins as a way to kill (and
exorcise our fears) is as intelligent as use internet to write a review
on IMDb (but not so scary :P) Bradd Pitt is eaten (at performance
level) by the great Morgan Freeman (he deserved an Oscar for this movie
too) because his William Somerset is more human and deep and near than
the detective David Mills (a little bit mean and angry, as you can see
at the end). The end of the movie? Pure evil, pure madness and pure
sadness, is absolutely a huge exercise of horror film condensed in two
things. That cardboard box and the evil murderer, whose name is not
been reported in this review.

******
19 October 2005
10
This movie has to be one of the greatest of all time. The acting and
the plot make this movie a must see! Without giving anything away...the
ending has to be credited with wrapping up one of the best written
movies I have ever seen. If you haven't seen it....see it! It's that
good. Detective Mills and Somerset are burdened with trying to solve
homicides that have all the indications of being a Serial Killer using
biblical references of the Seven Deadly Sins to commit his crimes. This
movie makes you think...both about the killer, the detectives and
society. If this movie was based on real murders.....they would be
studied to no end and written about in Legal textbooks continually.

******
15 October 2005
10
This movie takes my breath away. The story is so well constructed and
the screenplay so riveting that even when you want to look away, you
can't. You end up looking through your fingers! This one has
everything. To go along with the writing, it has award winning
performances, cinematography, set design, lighting, editing, and the
opening and closing credits are a thing to behold! The director is
David Fincher, but he must have gone to the Ridley Scott school. The
ambiance he creates in this film is an utterly gloomy, morose and
filled with dread. He sets the mood deliciously! This movie is absolutely not recommended for anyone under 17 in my
humble opinion. While it is great cinema, it is vulgar and gruesome,
with scenes that could scar young minds that couldn't possibly grasp
the adult ideas and content.

******
7 October 2005
10
This film is superb!Not only does it have fantastic actors such as
Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey but Brad Pitt manages to put aside the
comments that he is only famous for his looks and not his acting
ability. He plays a very convincing role and had me believing a very
word that he spoke. Thye only thing that lets this film down would have
to be the presence of Gwynth Paltrow. The directing, lighting and
editing skills as well as the well written plot over shine the lack of
talent that Paltrow brings to this film, a must see movie that will
keep you on the edge of your seat. The plot contains everything you
need, suspense, good action type scene's, gory footage for the horror
lovers, and a fantastic twist ending. A movie that you can happily
watch over and over again. One of the best films I've seen in years and
highly recommended. If you liked this you will love Kiss the Girls,
another fantastic movie with Morgan Freeman, a must see.

******
4 September 2005
10
i loved this movie. even though its hard to follow the whole thing if u
don't pay attention. i don't think many people could predict the
ending. i thought it was a brilliant film and what can i say i love
brad pitt. i will watch any of his movies even if they are bad. haha.
well i thought this was a great thriller. it kept me on the edge of my
seat. so if u want a good thriller to watch. then watch this movie. it
is awesome and has a very interesting plot. it keeps u wondering.
morgan freeman, brad pitt, and kevin spacey had very good performances
in this movie. their chemistry was unmistakable. gwenyth paltrow also
gave a good performance in this movie. even though i usually don't like
her movies. this one was good.

******
30 August 2005
10
This movie turns you in his little world, it shows you the kind of mind
that you are avoid, it just so perfect that finds in catholic religion
a dark side. Its dark yes but is the kind of movie that you must see if
you would like to have another point of view, you would find yourself
in another dimension you would find yourself in the best dark crime
movie ever you'd would find in the dark side of religion you wold see
the twisted mind of a killer you wont stop seeing it because you will
find yourself in SEVEN. YOU MUST SEE THIS MOVIE BEFORE SIXTH SENSE, The
acting is grate, and believe me, the writing is the best of the best.
Hard enough to keep you awake.

******
2 May 2005
9
Se7en is on of the best thriller's of the 90's. After Det. Lt. William
Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is assigned to have a new partner, Det. Dave
Mills (Brad Pitt) a murder is called in. The two go to the scene to
find a enormous man dead, his face buried in a plate of spaghetti. The
two investigate and behind the refrigirator they find the word
'Gluttony' dug into the wood.'Gluttony' one of the seven deadly sins according to Christianity. Now
the two are chasing the most dangerous criminal Somerset has ever seen,
killing according to whomever breaks a deadly sin. It's just a matter
of time until the sins catch up with the detectives. The murders are
gruesomely portrayed and the story develops around the mysterious John
Doe who is responsible for the murders. The story is solid, the acting
fine, Pitt and Freeman go great together, and the crafting of a
murderer who obeys the seven deadly sins is well crafted from Andrew
Kevin Walker.Se7en is smart, it's thrilling and at some scenes stomach turning.
Above all the story doesn't fade, some scenes are a bit unbelievable
and character development is on par. It's good to finally see Morgan
Freeman in a lead role instead of the forgotten supporting actor.Se7en. Starring: Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey, and Gwyneth
Paltrow.4 out of 5 Stars

******
29 April 2005
9
A high IQ and severe insanity is a dangerous combination. No film
proves this better than Seven. Kevin Spacey plays John Doe, an
independently rich, extremely intelligent, and severely disturbed
serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins (pride, lust, gluttony,
sloth, envy, anger, greed)as the inspiration for a series of deaths in
a lower class city. It is also a plus that film stars Morgan Freeman,
who in my opinion could be the greatest actor of all time, as one of
the detectives attempting to catch him. The only thing that hurt the
movie for me was that I felt that Brad Pitt tended to overact in some
of the scenes. Let me just end this by saying that the ending of this
film is guaranteed to leave you completely stunned.

******
25 October 2004
10
****MEGA SPOILERS WARNING****Detective William Somerset is in the last seven days of his career in
New York City homicide. He is to spend those seven days showing his
replacement, Detective David Mills the ropes. The first crime scene the
pair is sent to investigate is truly a bizarre one, a hugely obese
shut-in has eaten himself to death, and is found face-down in a plate
of spaghetti. Somerset insists that no one would take the time force a
man to eat himself to death unless the act itself has meaning that this
must be the beginning of something.He asks to be reassigned and is refused. Mills asks if he can have the
case and is also refused. Mills' next case is equally bizarre, a lawyer
is found in his office having bled to death after being forced to cut
off a pound of his own flesh. The word "Greed" has been written in his
blood on the carpet. Meanwhile, Somerset returns to the fat man's
apartment and finds that the word "Gluttony" has been written in the
grease behind the refrigerator.Aha! Somerset realizes what's going on, a serial killer is killing his
victims based on the seven deadly sins: Gluttony, greed, sloth, pride,
lust, envy, and wrath. Both of the men realize that the killer won't
stop his brutal killings until he methodically and creatively executes
his victims until his final vision is realized and is remembered, and
studied forever.One thing is for sure, this movie is not for the queasy, but apart from
that one caveat, I can't recommend it highly enough. The acting by
Freeman and Pitt is what makes this movie one of the greatest crime
thrillers of all time. It's stellar! Crime movies don't get any better
than this, folks. The mystery is clever enough to keep you guessing all
the way to the last five minutes of the movie. The direction by Fincher
is great, the city has never seemed more oppressive or dark. The soundtrack by Howard Shore I believe is another reason why this
thriller ranks above all the rests and sits up with The Silence Of The
Lambs. On another note, Kevin Spacey turns in a truly memorable cameo.
In fact, it's better than most lead roles people are giving now a days.
He plays a truly disturbed person, and one that you know must be
insane. Just in this movie alone, Spacey proves he is one of the finest
actors today.What sold me on this film and just how damn disturbing and dark it is.
It's quite amazing. I've yet to see a film that can match next to the
upcoming, soon to be classic, "Saw". How the film didn't get recognized
by the Academy Awards is beyond me. I can't wait to see a movie matches
the dark, disturbing and down right brutal way the film plays modern
society as place where no one will get away with their sins, and the
punishment is unbearable.****/*****

******
7 October 2004
10

To put it simply - Seven (i think the 7 in the title looks damn stupid)
is the best film I've seen. As far as the pure cinema experience goes,
I it shares the number one spot with Titanic (yes Titanic, no I'm not
crazy), but Seven is the only flawless film I can think of.The story is pretty straight forward, but when Seven came out, the
world hadn't yet been flooded with gritty looking, inferior serial
killer rip-offs. There's a beauty to the simplicity. The film never
takes the cheap way out, and deserves a lot of credit for that. There's
a refreshing lack of clichés that makes it all the more easy to watch
(just look at R. Lee Ermey's police captain - normally they only yell
and scream at the hero, refusing to believe whatever theory he's got,
but in Seven he actually listens to, and supports his men).The acting is superb all round, and the chemistry between Freeman and
Pitt is pure magic. The work behind the camera (Fincher's Fight Club
may be the flashier one, but this is his masterpiece), and on the sets
are equally impressive. The atmosphere and setting really pulls you in
to the film, never letting go until the end credits roll. And the
ending... the best one ever filmed, period. [10/10]


******
2 October 2004
9

I've seen many horror films. This was the first horror film that I
could say I truly say it presented true horror. The ugly awful horror
that you may feel and experience from a really bad recurring nightmare
that makes you fear going to sleep. Or the hopeless, despairing,
painful horror you may feel as you witness the death of multiple
innocents, like watching the Twin Towers collapsing on 9-11 on live TV.
This film while done as a detective story grabs the viewer and thrusts
them into what I can only describe as a travelogue through several
layers of hell. Other horror films may try to scare you(Jaws), shock you(Psycho), gross
you out(The Fly), or use any number of ways to make you afraid. This is
the first movie that made me feel true horror. Not just fear, but that
sense of dread and despair that haunts your memories and makes you
desperately wish it never happened.The climatic scene, the opening of the box, is one of the strongest
scenes of fictional horror put to film. And if fear and horror is one
of the strongest human emotions, then this is one of the most memorable
films ever made.


******
18 September 2004
9

Seven is a movie about two detectives, played by Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman who notice that their killer has been following a theme: the
Seven Deadly Sins. Fincher turns an average premise into one of the
best films of the nineties, an engrossing, fascinating and even
apocalyptic thriller. There are some great ideas about human nature,
and while it doesn't go as deep as Fight Club, the ending is a shocker.
Kevin Spacey shows up during the last half hour to give another great
performance, and even R. Lee Ermey features in some scenes. Highly
recommended. 9/10


******
20 August 2004
10

Seven, director David Fincher's best film has everything a thriller of
this sort needs, good direction, good acting, suspense, deeply
disturbing images, and a good killer. This film was before Kiss the
Girls, Copycat, Along Came a Spider and Taking Lives, and each of these
films have taken from Seven. The film has a dark mood(it's always
raining) and a very gritty look to everything. The acting is perfect,
Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are a great team of cops and Kevin Spacey
puts in a very good job. One thing I thought was genius was using the
Nine Inch Nails song for the titles sequence. This with Fight Club are
David Fincher's masterpieces.Made over $100 Million at box office.


******
9 August 2004
9

Hollywood does not usually do great job when it comes to overly talkative
screenplay.  Amazingly, seven has shattered that illusion brilliantly.  The
tension was higher when two actors sitting in an empty room talking than all
of Arnie's movies put together.  All the actors were supereb, filled with
creativity and wonderful watchable energy.  I have to credit the
screenwriter for creating a wonderful structure to all ow the actors to do
their job effortlessley.  The director maintained a sense of consistency
that served make this film brilliant.  
Films like this one that brings you back to the movie theatre.  Good
job.


******
7 June 2004
9

SE7EN is the story of two detectives working on their first (and last)
murder case together. Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is about to retire
and seems to be a bit show-offish around his partner Detective Mills (Brad
Pitt), who continues to try to prove that he is a competent detective,
despite Somerset's uncertainty. But the two are forced to put their
differences aside when a suspicious and intriguing new case comes up. The
murderer kills a variety of different people and writes the name of the sin
he feels they have committed on the wall of the murder site in whatever
substance he happens to find at the time. For example, he writes GREED in
blood, GLUTTONY in grease, etc.SE7EN is mostly just your run-of-the-mill murder mystery story, a genre
which I've never really been into. However, this movie is also different in
a couple of ways. The story, for one, I find to be incredibly clever. The
murderer's plan is highly original and almost makes sense, in an insane sort
of way. Every move the murderer, John Doe (Kevin Spacey), makes is just
another step in his plan, and all lead up to the ending--which, I have to
say, is absolutely brilliant.I think what sets SE7EN apart from most murder mystery movies is that it
requires you to think a bit more. Instead of simply showing the exciting
parts of a detective's job, such as the chase scenes (and this movie has
just one, but a particularly good one), it shows the long, tedious process
of finding clues and investigating. I think this element brings the viewer
deeper into the lives of all of the characters and instills more feelings
and care for said characters. And though the murderer's plan is made clear,
there are still a few foggy aspects that are required by that noggin to sort
out.As for technical aspects, everything works. Morgan Freeman is a great actor,
and despite what some reviewers think, I have to say Brad Pitt is too. Both
do well in this movie, as does Kevin Spacey as the "deranged murderer
freak." The script is great, if a little watered down by some cliches, and
the direction is excellent. No complaints.To be honest, I wasn't truly impressed with SE7EN until the ending. It was a
little cliched, a little boring, and a little tedious. But I think that's
the idea--that contrast makes the ending that much more shocking and
therefore more brilliant. The most perfect ending to a great crime thriller.
8.5/10.

******
4 May 2004
9

There are two things in Seven that set it apart from the
crowd.First, the complementary ways of thinking from two detectives with
conflicting personalities. Unlike the most stories of the same genre,
Detectives Somerset and Mills formed a perfect partnership not by the
similarity between them (of which there was few), but by their
unlike-mindedness in nearly every point of view. Learned, sophisticated, and
weary of a thirty-four-year career in dealing with crimes, Somerset allowed
his heart to quit before the actual date of retirement came, dragging his
feet in accepting challenges, and as a consequence the real value remained
of him was to give what he guessed or believed based on his time-tested
concepts and instinct. Mills, as opposed to his partner, was all fresh and
green and ready for action. Their thoughts crashed practically all the way
down to the end, and yet it was their very difference in mind and attitude
that supplemented them each with what the other lacked in their mission to
find the killer. Second, the great disparity in power between the good and evil. It was plain
that John Doe, the evildoer, was far more intelligent than the two
detectives combined. And throughout the entire process of his well-planned
killings, Doe kept having the upper hand, making his pursuers see what he
wanted them to see at what time he defined for them. There seemed no way,
absolutely no way for them to conquer him, to do what he was not intended.
The last scene, appalling and heart-wrenching beyond belief, showed the
utter helplessness from the men trapped and the powerful ill will of the
trapper ¡ª Somerset, with the feebleness in convincing even himself, called
Mills to throw his gun away; Mills, suffering torture from shock, agony and
rage, couldn't help but do exactly what he was set up to do; and Doe, with a
triumphant smile on his face, embraced death with all coolness. What an
ending! I rate this film 9 out of 10.


******
14 March 2004
7

You frequently walk out of movies feeling somewhat cheated by the production
companies desire to have a feel good conclusion. How many movies are quite
entertaining until a knee jerk conclusion spoils the rest of the movie.
Se7en doesn't suffer this conclusion and thank god Fincher refused to change
the ending of the movie.Somerset (Freeman) is on his final week of police duty when paired with
Mills (Pitt). They are allocated to a case that eventually turns out to be
John Doe (Spacey) creating his own masterpiece of seven deadly sins. The
characters area all given plenty of space to develop during the movie. The
contrast between Mills and Somerset at either ends of their police careers
is particularly interesting. 9/10

******
2 March 2004
8
First of all, I would like to make a few comments about some of the
other comments on the movie: First of all, it was actually intentional
that Brad Pitt seem somewhat cocky & ne'er-do-well in his role; the
point of his character was that he most likely came from a smallish
town's precinct where the hardest crime was probably stealing from the
collection plate, and his attitude was looked up to. In a small town.
He, in their minds, had the attitude of "those movie & TV cops". In
L.A., an attitude doesn't even get you a latte. So his bravado is
supposed to be misplaced. But what does come through is the fact that
he honestly does want to do the right thing his own way, and "get the
bad guys & teach them some manners", usually with a lot of verbal &
some physical abuse. Typical small-town, or rent-a-cop, mindset.
Secondly, a lot of people claim that the gore was hard to take...WHAT
gore? We only see the aftermath of the murders, not what they go
through. And what they go through is only speculated upon, not
hard-cold fact. The gore is in the mind of the audience. Frankly I am
quite please that they took that approach, as it shows that the
writers, producers, directors are giving the audience SOME credit for
having minds & imaginations. Hollywood thinking their audience has a
few brain cells--go figure... To sum up my feelings on the movie, I
have to quote the artistic director, Rob Bottin, on this one--"This is
a script that definitely gave me the butt-willies!" From beginning
almost to the end, I was impressed by not only the idea, but the
approach to such an idea. And a haunting thought occurred to me...why
hasn't this ever been done before in real life? Or has it, but was not
clued in to? Not that I'm hoping this is so, of course!! I think that
given the circumstances, the victims were actually handled with
dignity. So many times in movies, the victims are exploited because
most of Hollywood thinks that we only want shock and after-death
scandals. Here, there was no dirty laundry airing, no contrite
bloodletting...just the sad fact that they were everyday people in
everyday lives (whether we want to admit it or not), and chosen to fit
a specific killer's agenda. Much like most other serial killers. Morgan
Freeman, as usual, does no wrong, and brings a quiet grandness to his
role (and every role). Brad Pitt, with the aforementioned background
character, holds his own and does a pretty impressive job to get most
of us to forget that he's known for his looks alone. Gwyneth Paltrow
isn't given much to do, but she does it amiably. And R. Lee Ermey, as
always, is a comic-relief treat (ring..."This is not even my desk!"
slam!). Plus, how much fun was it for us to see "Shaft" as the
governor?? One minor flaw I feel compelled to say, and this is just my
opinion: Not the actor portraying him, but the character of John Doe,
left me a little dry. When he first arrived in the station, his
character seemed to fit with all that was discovered in his apartment.
But once he started talking, he fell into the same old Hollywood Killer
mode. Giving away all of his motives and intentions and thought
processes right before the end. This contriteness is in EVERY killer
movie, and was a sore disappointment. For me. Personally, I would have
preferred not to have him speak at all, or very minimally. Case in
point, at the very end when Mills has the gun on him and Somerset
rushes up after receiving the box. Doe goes into saying what his role
is in the 7 deadly sins, and what Mills' role will be as well...Hasn't
that been implied already?? We KNOW who will be what sin, just by the
set-up! And there's only two left--I think we can tell who is which!
Sorry, but Hollywood--take note, please - we don't need every killer's
life story, motives, and intentions spoon-fed to us. Besides, with
everything only being implied in the rest of the film, having John Doe
go into such a self-serving diatribe really goes against the grain, and
gives the feel of the film a 180 turn...which makes it all the more sad
when the first hour & 45 minutes have proved that the writers, et al,
have the intelligence to not stoop to that level. However that is my
only beef with the film. The rest; above par, superb, magnificent, and
a must-see...that you will be seeing in your conscious and subconscious
for a long while after the film ends. Guaranteed.

******
1 March 2004
10

If you would like to explore David Fincher, you should start out with this
magnificent piece of art work.
Even after 9 years the movie seems very fresh to me. Movie's two
dichotomous
detectives complement each other perfectly. We observe full speed action
from Pitt. For Freeman it is always thought before action. He would like
to
understand this crazy world. Literature might be the key to understanding
things.
Terrific acting by Freeman, Pitt and Spacey. Having watched Fight Club and
Se7en, I won't miss any feature directed by Fincher. He always directs
clever movies which brings new questions to your mind. Straight
10/10.

******
8 February 2004
10

Se7en is an odd movie to enjoy so much.  I've seen bits of pieces of it in
the past, but it was only recently that I watched the whole thing.  I was
gripped to it for every minute.  It's just a smart and intriguing crime
thriller, but don't eat anything while watching it!None of the scenes really grossed me out when I watched it recently, but
that's only because I knew what I was getting into.  I probably was a little
queasy after watching some of those scenes the first time.  Yet we never see
the crimes being done, only the aftermath.  Seeing those murders actually
take place may have been a bit much.Nevertheless, Se7en rides on some great storytelling, gritty direction, and
an all-around great cast.  One of the things I enjoyed most about the movie
was the chemistry between the main characters.  This was most evident at the
dinner scene as we were introduced to a friendlier, civilian side of the
characters played by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt, as well as a strong
supporting role played by Gwyneth Paltrow.And I should not forget the classic ending to this movie.  You will remember
it for a long time as well as the villain, who is played by an un-credited
famous actor.  You probably already know whom it is, but in the spirit of
limiting any spoilers, I won't go further.All in all, Se7en is just a great flick.  It's fun, it's interesting, it
keeps you guessing, and it's memorable.  The only drawback being that it may
not be for the faint of heart.My IMDb Rating: 10/10.  My Yahoo! Grade: A+ (Oscar-Worthy)

******
2 February 2004
10

How does he manage it? David Fincher really is the master director of the century. His complete
disregard for anything soft is admirable. The chiaroscuro lighting he
employs, the choice of Kevin Spacey as John Doe. Oh, magnificent. But, then again he does this with all his films. See Fight Club and Meat
Loaf is Robert Poulson, Micheal Douglas is Nicholas Van Orten in the game.
Has David Fincher ever done anything that can not be argued to be a combo of
thriller and film noir? The scenes have become famous. The ending was just a brainwave, although I
preferred the unshot ending. I know, shoot me. Countless crime films now use
the Se7en inspired opening sequence template. If you haven't already done
so, you need to go and see it!

******
24 January 2004
10

Surely one of the most gripping films I've ever seen, with two marvellous
acting performances to boot. It's hard to review this film without using the
word "disgusting". It is disgusting, like the kind of nightmare you can't
tell anyone you had in case they call the police. But somehow it's just so
clever and so well done it's possible to admit not only to liking this film,
but also that it's a work of genius.

******
24 January 2004
10

This movie was suggested to me by someone that I never met, he told me
that
it was something I would never see coming. He was right! Without giving
away
anything I will say that all parts were cast perfectly!! Morgan Freeman
was
great but of course he almost always is. my only complaint is that it got
too quiet at times. overall I have to give it a solid 10...I think it
couldn't have been better unless they got me to play the bad guy..
:)

******
15 January 2004
10

Perfect script, directing, editing, camera work and actors - all what
means
it's a perfect movie! I remember seeing it for the first time - my friends
and I kept silent all way home from cinema house - it was so shocking. And
ever since I haven't seen a movie, which has had such an influence on me.
Respect.

******
11 January 2004
10

               Morgan Freeman(Detective Lt., William Somerset),"Levity",'03
was outstanding in this film and has always given a great performance in any
picture that he has appeared in.  Somerset was about to retire from the
force and much to his surprise he had a new partner, Brad Pitt,(Detective
David Mills),"Full Frontal",'02, the two of them finally got along and
became great partners trying to solve horrible murders concerning the
seven(7) deadly Sins!  Gwyneth Paltrow,(Tracy Mills),"Sylvia",'03, was
married to David and was about to have a baby and did not like the big city
living and the horrible apartment they had over a subway system that shook
their entire building.  She confides in Bill Somerset about having a baby
and her family situation, as she has no family nearby, the acting in this
scene was fantastic between Tracy & Bill.  Anytime I see this film, I simply
hate the ending and the torture David Mills goes through in making a very
serious decision.  Great film with great actors. The final outcome is left
up to YOU !

******
9 January 2004
9

I first watched Se7en in 1995. I didn't much care for it at the time, but I
was 9 at the time and I couldn't understand many of the more deeper meanings
of the film. Ever since then I have understood the film better after each
time I watch it (5 times now), and it is now one of my favorite movies.
Besides being a very entertaining film, it made me really think and I like
that in a film. It provoked me to think on many things such as my views on
society. Many people will not understand this film the first time around, I
know that I didn't, but thats the beauty of this film, in its complexity. It
deserves the praise that it received, and I don't see that often. I would
hope that everyone could get a chance to see this movie, for it is
wonderful. I give Se7en 9/10. Not perfect, but as close to it as a film can get.


******
1 January 2004
10

This is an amazing thriller setting new standards. I would recommend this
to
everybody who wants to know about film. Personally I would only watch it
once though - because, like the Hitchcock movies, it depends a lot upon
the
mindblowing mystery and confusion of the things that are going on.


******
27 December 2003
9

There are some genuinely shocking scenes in this movie which made it tough
to want to go back and view it again. Unfortunately this film deserves more
than one viewing so I was compelled to do so. A very good story with
non-intrusive yet moody soundtrack. The chemistry between the main
characters stays interesting without becoming a cliche 'buddy' movie.
Excellent camera work. I could find very little to complain about in this
movie except that it puts me in a bad mood. I wanted to personally gut the
villain myself by the end of the movie. I recommend this movie to anyone who
can handle intense and gruesome. Keep this one away from the kids and
grandma.

******
30 November 2003
9

Creepy as hell, have you ever thought that someone could actually think that
they are god? If so have you ever thought that they might take it upon
themselves to kill those who commit the deadly sins:greed, sloth, gluttony,
lust, pride, envy, and wrath. Well in this movie it happens and Brad and
Morgan got to figure it out before it's seven people down. Try to figure out
the voice on the phone. He's not in the opening credits to surprise
you.

******
24 November 2003
10

Definately one of the best movies I have ever seen. David Fincher is GOD!
Seven, The Game and Fight Club are all 9-10 rated movies in my books.
Alien
3 was good (I liked it. Many don't agree). Panic Room wasn't bad, but not
good either. I really like Finchers gloomy and depressing pictures and
style. Really refreshing in these "happy-go-easy-times"! I am happy to
see,
that nearly all who rated this movie really liked it as well. Maybe we'll
see more of this type of movies later, when everyone like
it.

******
28 September 2003
10

It starts out with a single gruesome murder which then leads to a series
of
murders all pointing to a psychotic killer that keeps the cops always one
step behind.  The murderer is trying to leave a lasting impression to the
world by making examples of those who have broken the 7 deadly sins, it
is
up to Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt to end the crimes before he gets to
number 7.  The intelligent writing and amazing acting create the most
memorable crime movie ever.  Morgan Freeman is brilliant, and Brad Pitt
fits
easily into the hot new rookie cop role.  With a battle of personalities
to
go along with the diabolical criminal mind commiting the murders, the
movie
keeps you guessing and surprised with each twist and turn.  The most
chilling scene of the entire movie is the end sequence that will surprise
and shock every viewer.  A must see for any movie fan, just make sure you
have the stomach to handle the very gruesome scenes.10 out of 10.

******
5 August 2003
10

When you ask people about this movie, most of them will tell you that it
is
'soooo gory'. Well, it's not! In fact most of the horror (except for the
guy
on the bed) is not visible on screen, it's created in your head. You never
see a murder or any violence. You just see the crime scene or even only a
photograph of the 'weapon' and then you reconstruct what happened in your
mind. And this is what makes it so frightening because this way the horror
is perfectly adapted to your very own fears. But this is just another
genuine aspect of this truly outstanding thriller. Everything else also
fits
together just perfectly: the story, the acting (even Brad Pitt!), the
design, the atmosphere and the cinematography. And the ending... well it's
brilliant, surprising, hopeless and most important consistent.Seven is simply the perfect movie - 10/10

******
1 August 2003
10

gluttony, greed sloth wrath pride lust and envy.  se7en is withou doubt
the
best mystery movie ever. i rate a 10 out of 10. brad pitt and morgan
freeman
are the best homicide team.  if you like thriller and action and myster in
1. this is the movie for you.
get ready for the ride of your life.if you have any questions email me
thank you

******
29 July 2003
10

A much more disturbing movie than Silence of the Lambs, or anything of
its
"ilk".  This film from start to finish is an unsettling, intriguing,
gritty
ride through the macarbe world of "se7en".  This is a brilliant crime
thriller from the director of Fight Club, Fincher, who uses his great use
of
camera work and dark imagination to bring this film to life.The killings that are on offer are only shown after they have
actually happened, which is an intresting slant on things, unlike many
new
thrillers where we see someone get brutally muredered, with blood and
guts
needlessly flying to and fro.  This is great stuff from Fincher, yet
where
he really does himself proud is in a certain shoot out scene with the
mysterious killer John Doe, which is filmed brillaintly, with great
cinematography.  It's brutal, stark and gritty - what Fincher captures
best.
The acting on offer is superb - Freeman plays it well as the old
detective, who is retiring, but stays on for this last case.  Freeman is
well spoken, and he is playing opposite a great Brad Pitt, who plays
Detective Mills, a cocky, full of it new detective, who plays the part
with
ease, showing us the difference between the two characters, one being
old,
wise, the other being young, brash.  Kevin Spacey, for the time he is in
the
film, shows great presence as the mysterious weirdo John Doe, who is
cooly
evil.
This is the new meaning of film noir, the new meaning of
thriller,
horror, crime, what have you - this movie is a classic, brutal, gritty,
real, horrific, disturbing - there are too many words.  Just see it.  Oh
and
be surprised by the credit scenes, which are EXTREMELY
good.10 outta 10.

******
25 July 2003
10

This movie is dark, depressing, and disturbing. But i can tell you it is
great. Without a doubt the best movie i have ever seen. Everything is
perfectly done. The best part about Se7en is they do not show the actual
act
of violece, but only the aftermath, which is very smart. I also love the
fact that it is always raining until the last day, it makes it more
disturbing.10/10 

******
19 July 2003
9

Seven is one of those edge of your seat thrillers that will keep your eyes
glued to the TV screen through out the whole movie. This mesmerizing thrill
ride is one of the best films of suspense that was ever made. Brad Pitt and
Morgan Freeman were fantastic in this movie. And of course, who can be
better than Kevin Spacey. He was great as the crazed killer. I thought the
story of this movie was very brilliantly written because there is so many
things you can do in a story like this. A rookie has to work with a veteran
detective to solve a deadly crime. I thought this movie was very funny as
well. The movie was great and I recommend it to all viewers who like
suspense and like Brad Pitt movies. It was simply great. TWO THUMBS
UP!!!!!!

******
12 July 2003
10

"Se7en" is a sinister, bleak and disturbing look at the evil which
breathes
under the city. It goes without questioning that Se7en is absolutely
flawless, a perfect film in every single aspect. The beautiful
cinematography, tight editing, moody direction and the strong acting
abilities from Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey.Some of the murders based on the Seven Deadly Sins are quite gruesome and
not for the faint hearted. They don't hold back on showing us the skinny
here, folks! The most impressive and memorable part of the film has to be
the ending, which is one of the greatest endings ever. It trails along
oodles of tension and a very well done conversation in the police car
involving Pitt, Freeman and John Doe. It will certainly leave you shocked
in
your seat.It also has to be said that John Doe, the man responsible for the murders,
will go down as one of the greatest villans in film history... Ta-ta
indeed,
Hannibal Lecter. The film itself should also go down in film history as
the
second greatest thriller, taking a seat right behind The Silence of the
Lambs.

******
22 June 2003
10

What a gem of a movie this is?  SE7EN is one of the most intense thrillers
ever made.  Morgan Freeman stars as a retiring detective who teams up with
his soon-to-be replacement (Brad Pitt) to track down a serial killer who is
committing murders according to the seven deadly sins.  With a teriffic
cast, a well-written script and lots of substance, SE7EN works in very many
ways and never misses.5 out of 5

******
21 June 2003
10

Se7en is a truly wonderful movie that combines brilliant acting, an
intriguing plot and a fantastic ending. Kevin Spacey, Morgan Freeman,
Gwyneth Paltrow and Brad Pitt all play their roles beautifully. The
storyline moves very well, keeping the viewer thinking and the ending is
one
of the best, most well thought-out I've ever seen. A must
see!My rating : @@@@@(out of five)

******
20 June 2003
10
****SPOILER****This is a philosophical comment to the POINT of the film, so it is quite
in-depth. Although it does not go too much into the plot directly, the
film
is more enjoyable if one discovers said points of the films for oneself.
Continue at own risk.Somerset: "The first thing they teach you, is that if you are being
raped,
don't shout "rape". Shout "fire". THEN people will come running..... I
just
can't go on working in a place that nurtures apathy as if it were a
virtue".The point of Seven is moral more than religious. Its point concerns
APATHY, and explains how apathy actually IS evil. A New Testament example
of
this is the story of Lazarus (Don't get me wrong. I'm an atheist and
deeply
loathe the bible as a whole. Nevertheless, in part, the bible has a point
here.). The wealthy man is deemed evil (in the eyes of
God/eternity/objectivity) because of his apathy towards the needy
(Lazarus)
- evil enough, in fact, to be cast into hell. The moral of the story (of
Lazarus as well as Seven) is that active harm is not necessary for one to
be
evil. One merely needs to abstain from doing good. Not all evil people
NEED
to actively harm others to get what they want. Some already have it, and
choose to let others die at their door.So I have no doubt that the people that Doe killed were evil. I have no
doubt that Somerset hated them as well. Only Somerset was to loving a
person
to take on the role of judge, jury and executioner.
Both Somerset and Doe have let the apathy of the world drive them to give
up. Doe wants to die and take some of those cold-hearted bastards with
him,
and, hopefully, make his point and thus change the world. Somerset merely
wants to escape to some distant place in the country. But in the end,
Somerset simply can't turn his back on the world. He wants to go on trying
to help. Probably inspired by Mills passion for justice.On a more depressing note, I believe that the moral of the story is, that
these vices (seven deadly sins) are what make us human. Only one person
has
none of these vices - Somerset - and he is lonely and miserable.
Inhuman(ly
good). "With much wisdom comes much sadness, and he that furthers his
wisdom
furthers his sadness" (Ecclesiastes 1:18, loosely translated).Mills has it sooo easy, not reflecting on life the way Somerset does. He
is
nevertheless truly good, in my opinon. And that is the only real hole in
the
pattern of the plot. Wrath need not be a vice/sin. Mills did not beat up
his
wife, nor run amuck and kill people or anything like that. His wrath was
always just, and it never hurt the innocent.
I completely love both him and Somerset.This is the greatest, deepest, most insightful film I have ever seen.

******
15 April 2003
10

Seven is quite simply the greatest film ever made. The nearest rivals are
Pulp Fiction and Aliens but when it comes to creating unbelievable
tension
and suspense there is nothing to rival it.
David Fincher ingeniously creates a dark and shocking world of horror
and
death that sends shivers down your spine every time you watch it. All the
cast excel and are in career best form, from Morgan Freeman's composed
and
reflective Somerset to the magnificent and sinister cameo from Kevin
Spacey
in the film's gripping climax.
It may not be for the faint-hearted but is a genuine must-see that
leaves
all competition for top spot trailing hopelessly in it's
wake.

******
11 April 2003
10

This was a outstanding movie! It really makes you take a closer look at
your
surroundings. It's strange, with most movies you just watch them and then
move on to something else. But with this movie, it's disturbing because
John
Doe points out a lot of things that you think about and realize that they
ARE true! there IS "a deadly sin on every corner, in every home" and we
DO
look past it because it IS common. Maybe the way John dealt with it
wasn't
that good, hell it was insane(!), but you have to admit, he makes a lot
of
good points! 

******
10 April 2003
10

This was a very intelligent thriller, with a worthy reason for the
killers'
actions. However, I tried as hard as I could to go in knowing as little
about it as I possibly could, and all I knew was that it was about the
Seven
sins. Even still, I couldn't help but find myself one step ahead of the
plot
on many occasions. Perhaps I have seen too many of these sorts of films,
but
apart from that, more than decent.

******
24 March 2003
10

i don't think cinema has ever been the same since the film seven took the
world by storm. Almost every serial killer thriller since has tried to
imitate sevens unique blend of darkness, mood, and ability to disturb. But
none has and will ever come close to this. 
The build up of tension throughout the movie is like nothing else, and when
it all finally snaps in the last few minutes, you're left with nothing but a
sour taste in your dry mouth. Director fincher, knows how to pull an
emotional punch, and he uses his actors like puppets. Masterfully crafting
their performances to hyper realistic proportions. Every twist and turn in
the story is done brilliantly, with the script being that rare thing of
intelligence, wit, and both a good, and evil heart. Kevin Spacey comes
across as almost sympathetic. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman make a highly
convincing pair of detectives, and the supporting cast are equally as
brilliant. But the best part of the entire film is the ending, with it's
great un-hollywood approach. I won't say anymore but it's an ending to
cherish.  

******
15 March 2003
9

I first saw this movie when I was eight, and, just to show how much my
generation is desensitized, it didn't scare me.  Having seen it several
times since, I now realize that this is in fact one of the most shocking
films ever made.  Between 'Se7en' and 'Fight Club', David Fincher has
created two flawed masterpieces.  Se7en itself is brilliantly done, with a
horrifying, remarkable twist ending, and Kevin Spacey as John Doe, a serial
killer on par with Hannibal Lecter.  The only flaw with this movie is it's
lack of deeper morals.  Sure, it shows the overall evils of today's world,
but it feels as though it's missing something essential, a feeling of
humanity.

******
8 March 2003
10
My first introduction to the work of David Fincher was the oft panned
ALIEN 3. While I hated this film less than most people, I was impressed
by the overall look and the visual style. Several years later Fincher
hit movie audiences in the face with SEVEN, which is a masterpiece of
dark creeping atmosphere.SEVEN follows the exploits of Detectives Sommerset and Mills, while on
the trail of a killer who is violently acting upon the seven deadly
sins (greed, sloth, pride, etc.). When broken down to that simple
sentence, the film has the potential to collapse under its' own
concept. The way the material is handled, however, shows inspiration
and commitment by the film-makers. The movie is brutal and realistic;
the murder scenes are unpleasant and not for the squeamish. The make-up
effects by Rob Bottin are quite grotesque, especially the killer's
"prisoner" who is found chained to a bed.Morgan Freeman in the lead role finds the right balance between
professionalism and frustration as the killer continues to elude him.
Brad Pitt as Det. Mills, the new kid in town, is layered, with just the
right amount of maniacal fervor. This is especially important
considering Mills' actions during the conclusion of the story. If the
character had not been established, the ending could have seemed forced
or contrived. The way Pitt portrays this smart, but angry man, gives
the film the push it needs to pull off the final act. Kevin Spacey, a
third-act inclusion, covers much developmental ground in a short period
of time.Behind the scenes there dwells much talent: the photography by Darius
Khondj is so good you can almost smell certain scenes, Arthur Max's
prod. design is decaying Gothic in nature, and the pounding percussive
score by Howard Shore rattles your nerves (Shore later went on to score
The Lord of the Rings films). Andrew Kevin Walker's story is sharp and
has an explosive resolution. David Fincher's direction cemented him as
a film-maker with a distinct style and he has proved this in subsequent
projects (although I am in the minority for hating FIGHT CLUB, yet this
is mainly because of the story, not Fincher's direction).It is true that not every single element of the film works, but I
admire SEVEN simply for the scene where Sommerset goes to the
library(!) to help solve the case, which is something you don't often
see in your run-of-the-mill thriller. 10/10 Quick Trivia: in the published screenplay the ending takes place in a
swamp; this actually makes sense considering that the characters are
still in close proximity to a city where it rains on a constant basis.
It also contains the opening scene that was cut from the film (it was
later restored via the special edition DVD). The screenplay, itself, is
also a good read, and of interest to fans and film-buffs.

******
27 February 2003
9

I really like David Fincher. Each one of his films has a unique visual
signature to them and are trademarked with an excellent story. I didn't hate
Alien 3 at all. This is his second best film, Fight Club being the first.
Everything in it is so well done, from the acting (Kevin Spacey!),
directing, script, and visuals. The city this takes place in isn't named but
its shown as dark and gritty, constantly raining. The mystery is intense,
its something I have never heard of before but it is done so remarkably
well. Its hard to find a film like Se7en around, it can only really be
matched by Memento. The last twenty minutes of this film are extremly
suspensful, possibly the best end twenty minutes of any film. The script is
my only problem, because sometimes it gets sloppy and Brad Pitt just
unevenly swears. Otherwise, its an excellent thriller that I didn't find
shocking at all. 9.5/10

******
21 February 2003
9

This is David Fincher's best film (out of 5). This is just such an excellent
thriller. One of the best points of this film is Fincher's supurb and
stylish directing making him the next Tarantino. Even though I think
Tarantino (Quentin) is a better director, Fincher has more stylish camera
angles and great flashy cinematography. The story is very dark, and only for
the very strong-stomached. Do not, and I'll repeat, DO NOT WATCH THIS WHILE
YOU EAT! DO NOT WATCH THIS WHILE YOU EAT! The premise is about a
smart-mouthed, cocky young cop (Brad Pitt) who gets assigned to work with a
smart, veteran cop (Morgan Freeman) on a case where the killer is basing
murders on the seven deadly sins - 1) Gluttony 2) Greed 3) Sloth 4) Lust 5)
Pride 6) Envy 7) Wrath. The killer ends up being none other than Keyser Soze
himself, Kevin Spacey! Kevin Spacey gives another excellent performance that
should be remembered as one of his best! The story is paced well, the ending
is interesting, the acting is great, I love this movie! I recommend this
film to anyone who loves scary thrillers and has a thing for violent,
gritty, graphic and frightening crime scene investigations!
Grade: A-

******
10 February 2003
10

 ( Hesitated before committing the 777th comment! Shall make it
snappy!)
Se7en was shockingly overlooked by the Academy Awards ( but for a Best
Editing nomination ). Still it had  some of the best assets a film can hope
for: devilishly clever and faultless writing by Andrew Kevin Walker,
magnificent photography by Darius Khondji which , with the  superb settings,
created the haunting  atmosphere of the film, very good musical score
(including an excerpt from a Bach piece aptly included ), and taut and
gripping magnificent direction by David Fincher. So the film garnered many
other rewards and met with considerable public success. The casting, though
uneven, contributed thereto: Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow ( wonderful in
"Shakespeare in Love " but otherwise overrated in most films ) are
acceptable but have no real alchemy together ; Morgan Freeman is truly
excellent, and Kevin Spacey simply superb ( his performance is said to have
weighted  considerably on his  Oscar awarding for "USUAL SUSPECTS "); solid
support in small parts is given by seasoned performers : R. Lee Ermey (
police captain ), Richard Roundtree ( D.A. ), Michael Massey ( man in
massage  parlour booth ), and Richard Schiff ( John Doe's lawyer ); while
John C. McGinley' s acting talents are just wasted; as to Charles Dutton, I
just did not see him. A discovery ( at least for me ) : Leland Orser as the
nerve-wrecked customer of the dead hooker, remarkably convincing in a most
difficult if short part, and who now has  consistent roles in good movies.


******
21 January 2003
10
This is perhaps Fincher's best work to date. The story is flawless
mainly because of the realism present in it. The writing is primarily
what holds the story together. It goes within the killer's mind to the
point where the viewer almost agrees or at least cannot deny, the
validity of his arguments. Fincher also does an excellent job to convey
the unpleasantness and claustrophobia of a crime scene to the point
where the viewer can almost smell the acrid bodies. It takes the
suspense genre and redefines the cinematic serial killer with
outstanding performances by the whole cast. It is a film that can
withstand time and can pertain to any future generation. Truly a
classic.

******
18 January 2003
9

I had somehow missed seeing 'Se7en' when it went out in the theaters. Now,
four good films after ('The Game' and 'Fight Club' among them), this 1995
movie of director David Ficher still stands as an original and strong
creation. This is not an easy film - much more violent and graphic than the usual
detective drama. It's a multiple murder story, in an American city of
eternal rain, ugliness and violence. The two main characters, played by Pitt
and Freeman are fighting a war lost in advance, not that much with crime but
with the insanity that attacks normal life. They seem to be motivated more
by the need of sanity than by the need to enforce law and
morals.It's great to watch scenes like the one where the detectives and what seems
a regiment of policemen are going out to make a search - it tells a lot
about the police system dominating our lives. This is the work of a great
director, and with such a director at helm, there is hope that even 'Mission
Impossible 3' which he is doing now might be a good film.Pitt and Freeman are great. Spacey acts just for a few scenes, but that's
enough to add his picture to the big actors playing serial killers gallery.
Paltrow's role, unfortunately, is too conventional to allow her doing an act
comparable to her partners. The final scene is so different from the usual Hollywood ending, that it may
shock a lot of viewers. It takes guts to put such an ending to a 'big
studios' movie. 9/10 on my personal scale. A great movie, from one of the best directors
around.


******
8 January 2003
9

Let me just say, this is one of the scariest movies I've ever seen. It was
pretty gory, you know, the deaths and all. Call me a pansy, but I watched it
at night and every time I walked down the hallway I expected Kevin Spacey to
jump out and slaughter me in a creative way. Then, I kept contemplating how
the ending could have differed. In the end, I did like this movie. But I
find it strange for an 18 year old girl to enjoy this type of movie as much
as I did (I'm talking about myself). If you are in the mood to be awake all
night in fear, I would recommend this film. 

******
31 December 2002
10

so good. one of the best ever, and possibly my favorite movie.  yes, it is
disturbingly gory, perhaps too much so for squeamish people, but it really
takes the idea of "the world is a terrible place" and sticks it in your
eye.
movies like this, american psycho, and requiem for a dream help me
reinforce the idea that out in the world, there's some nasty things going
on. somerset's final line in the film"Ernest Hemingway once wrote, the world is a ... "
crap, I forgot the exact quote. but it's along the lines of "the world is
a
wonderful place, and worth fighting for. I believe in the second
part"really captures the entire point of the film.10/10 hands down.  the people who probably won't appreciate this movie are
the people who aren't cynical and are optimistic. 

******
25 December 2002
10

Spoilers aheadDisturbing, gory, violent, this mind-blowing, cleverly-written thriller is
one of the best movies of the '90's, and a classic of its genre; no
thriller
after Seven will ever be this great, although movies don't get tired of
trying; but like Chinatown, Seven set the stakes too high.At first, the movie seems just the tired of cliche of having an
intelligent,
patient old detective just about to retire, and a smart-mouthed impulsive
rookie together - but it is beyond that; Morgan Freeman, in the
oscar-deserving role of William Sommerset, contrasts Brad Pitt's young
detective David Mills, in a role that restored Pitt some credibility as a
real actor - both are different aspects of life: hope and despair, which
has
much to do with the theme of the movie.Together, they look for a serial killer with a well defined purpose and a
really sick MO: each of his victims represent one of the seven deadly
sins,
through which deaths the killer wants to show how sick our society is for
allowing and accepting walking sins everywhere; never a serial killer was
this good since Hannibal Lecter, but Kevin Spacey's character, John Doe,
is
even more disturbing due to his sense of purpose.Never boring, actually very intelligent, the movie flies away for two
hours
of twists and action, until reaching the only possible satisfactory
conclusion - can't tell it, but it's up there with The Usual Suspects, The
Sixth Sense and Memento.And between the first and last death, the viewer experiences a journey
through the worst humanity has to offer, as screenplayer Andrew Kevin
Walker
includes some of his philosophy on our daily life, mostly explored during
the conversations between Mills and Sommerset.David Fincher makes thus a slow-paced, sometimes action-packed, cerebral
thriller out of the horrors of our society, making his work only more
poignant through good editing, dark sets and very tiwsted angles. 10 out
of
10.

******
2 December 2002
10

Yet this ultimate morality play, is also one of the best horror movies
ever
filmed. Filled with acts so vile so horrible, yet done with such purpose
we
will ponder the killers acts and poetic explanation of said acts for years
to come. A social commentary on a civilization that looks the other way
when
confronted by cruelty beyond comprehension.  Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt
are a perfect pair of opposites attracting in order to save the world from
a
souless monster who leads them on a cat and mouse chase of his own
choosing.
One of my favorite movies of all time. 

******
29 November 2002
10

Se7en has always caught my attention, and has always been my second
favorite film of all time.  From the fist viewing to the 10th, there were
no
signs of boredom.  I have always been attracted to the "edge of your seat"
thrillers, this one being the best of all in my opinion.Twist endings are becoming somewhat customary in today's films.  This
film did not follow pictures like "The Sixth Sense", but came out 4 years
prior to the commencement of the so called "tricking the audience" idea.
Though even after seeing a whole truckload of movies with the now overused
cliche of a surprise ending, you'll still be impressed with what this film
has to offer.
This tops my list of the greatest films of all time, somewhere in the
top 5, it's hard to decide.  Director David Fincher has supplied a very
gritty & dark film. Almost film noire, almost horror and almost a
thriller,
but is in a class of its own.

******
26 November 2002
10

This film scared me in 1995, I was 24. I still remember the wonderfully
scared feeling I had when I left the cinema and decided to walk the long
way
home to stay under lights. I was blown away by every aspect of this bone
chilling thriller and I honestly don't think we've yet seen it's rival.
One
of my filmmaking friends said last year that after seeing fight club he'd
decided there was no point in going on. There was nothing left to do as a
filmmaker as Mr Fincher had done it all in that film. I agree to a point,
but I still don't think he topped the rawness and pure (uncomputerised)
beauty of what was to become my all time favourite film. Yes, I'll say it.
Seven is the best film of all time. Even you Brad Pitt haters can't deny
he
was perfect as Mills. Great script (thanks Andy), great cinematography,
great acting (Morgan is unbelievable - even for him) and brilliantly
directed. If for some bizarre reason you have never come across this
movie,
rent it on DVD (widescreen please), take the phone off the hook, turn down
the lights and be prepared for a thriller of a different kind. And if like
me you've watched it too many times to count, try listening to it, it's
amazing what the audio gives away that you can miss when watching the
visuals. Seven years later I still say 10 out of 10!

******
10 November 2002
9

This movie made the seven deadly sins famous. Before this film, much of the
mainstream audience could not even name one deadly sin.This movie creates a great atmosphere, with a soundtrack that boasts the
impending dread and doom in the both the storyline and the lives of the
characters.  I thought this is one of Brad Pitts greatest roles, along with
Seven Years in Tibet.The last ten minutes of the film are the greatest in cinematic history,
IMHO.  The end is totally mind blowing but adds greatly to give a satisfying
end to the story.Watch this movie on a rainy night with a good surrond sound
system!
Some scenes will be etched in your memory for a long time.  I still cant
forget the murder dealing with sloth and gluttony.

******
6 November 2002
10

This without a doubt is one of the best thrillers of all time. The ending
will leave you breathless. The two main actors Morgan Freeman and Brad
Pitt
put up an All-Star performance. Kevin Spacey and R. Lee Ermey are also
excellent in their rolls. If you want to be freaked out this is the movie
to
see and enjoy

******
3 November 2002
9

This may be the most disturbing movie I've ever seen.  It is excellent and
I
hope no one ever makes another one like it for fear some fool will try to
make life imitate art.
Watch it and then try to sleep!


******
28 October 2002
9

 What defines a good thriller? A good story. No doubt. But what defines
superb thriller? A good story told differently than in any other thrillers.
Some movies succeed in that, while other doesn't. Se7en succed. With it's great "film noir" touch (rain, scenography, type of
acting,...), superb story with surprises following one after another, great
acting by Brad, Morgan, Kevin & Gwyneth and a intelligent touch of directing
by David Fincher (also used in his next masterpiece Fight club,
7/10). That's why a 9 out of 10.

******
22 October 2002
10

If you are disturbed by dark films then this film isn't for you (apparently
the previous reviewer needs Hollywood candy.) But if you like your suspense
gripping, cold, with great character development, then this is a film you
won't forget for both the story and its all around excellence.While not as easily palatable as "The Usual Suspects", "Seven" is a film
about a psychotic man trying to make a point about the downward spiral of
our world. He's Hannibal Lector but with a purpose for killing besides mere
glee. The production is astonishing, sound is fantastic (you wouldn't
believe it would be in a "cop" film), the acting is first notch, and most of
all, it made me really appreciate character development. The film delves
into what basically makes two men tick and how they view the same world with
completely different perspectives. Is either right?Great care was take to make sure that the dialogue flowed as well as the
pacing of the film, which picks up just as soon as you think there is a lag.
Incredibly, the film is nowhere near as gruesome on screen as most other
gruesome flicks ("Gladiator" comes to mind) and it is mostly the disturbing
thought that there are people like this and perhaps the world isn't a rosy
place with a few freaks... or perhaps it is. The film gets better with
repeated viewings and I think that this is one film where Morgan Freeman
just shines as an actor. Brad Pitt actually is remarkably good as a typical
American who seems to have been educated through pop culture and is quick to
the hip rather than to the brain as is Somerset, Freeman's
character.If you can enjoy a movie like "Silence of the Lambs" then this flick will
take you for a ride. If you are simply disturbed by disturbing things in
this world then you might not give this movie a chance. The DVD is
remarkable and perhaps the most worthwhile DVD you can get with all the
interesting commentary tracks. The previous reviewer probably also thought
that "Fight Club" -- another Fincher film -- was just a social commentary
applauding violence. Like that film.... there is so much to see and
appreciate in this very dark film.... Fantastic, intriguing, and
replayable...

******
31 August 2002
10

It isn't often that a tired, over used genre can be livened up by a
brilliantly original and well executed piece of work. Se7en is that
film.
This film is wonderfully dark and brilliantly written. The
performances are superb and Fincher and co. have worked hard
to create a movie full of suspense and tension which leaves the
viewer guessing until the final frame.
One of the best movies of the last 10 years. Highly recommended.

******
22 August 2002
10

This doesn't give away anything in the film, but it might hint at
thingsThe reason when "Seven" (aka Se7en) should be ranked so highly is because
it's a film that purely refuses to give into the Hollywood system.
Firstly,
it never shows you the crimes taking place, opting instead to show you the
aftermath. And even then it never pushes it right into your face. It's
more
reliant on the audiences reaction within itself, within each individual
viewer, which is far more powerful than a thousand special effects.
Secondly, the ending (and not giving anything away) completely catches you
off guard. It is like nothing you expected, and by obeying the rules it
has
already set out for itself (see above) it makes it all the more scarier.
Coupled with the fact that the studio wanted to go with an alternative
happy
ending (for "happy" see conventional) and Fincher fought for his vision
makes this a true rarity in cinema today.

******
19 August 2002
10

This is an excellent, if sometimes disgusting, movie. It is intense, scary,
and thought provoking. I even imagine that the dialogue is excellent. I say
"imagine" because only about one in every three lines spoken in this movie
are audible. When I went to see this movie in the theatre, I was on the edge
of my seat, not just out of tension, because I was straining to hear what
everyone was saying. I know they didn't have the volume turned down to low,
because the soundtrack, and all other sounds in the movie were LOUD, its
just all the actors sounded like they were mumbling. OK, maybe it was just
the accoustics of the theatre. I rented it once on VHS, and there was the
same problem -- you could barely hear anything that anyone said. OK, I had a
lousy VCR, I thought it would be different when I got in on DVD. I watched
it last weekend, and it was still the exact same problem. The sound editting
on this movie is horrible, which is REALLY frustrating, because its an
amazing movie. You'd think that someone else would have mentioned this to
the producers by now, and they would have re-editted it for the
DVD.Still, if you have strong ears, and a strong stomach, this movie is well
worth watching.

******
17 August 2002
8

This is the film that got me back into cinema going. Having missed out on
the pleasure for a number of years, mainly due to some poor releases, I
finally bowed to pressure and tagged along to see what the silver screen
had
to offer. Wow, what a film to go back to, it has everything. From the edgy
soundtrack to the rain sodden opening scenes the atmosphere ( which should
be bottled and given to aspiring directors) grabs you by the throat from
the
very beginning. The plot unfolds beautifully, helped along by stunning
performances and real chemistry from Freeman and Pitt, right up the the
inevitable, but truly shocking conclusion. I left the cinema in silence.
Once more a disciple

******
13 August 2002
9

I almost threw up after watching the ending. However, as much as I was
disturbed, I was also intrigued with the cleverness of the plot. When the
credits rolled, I had to tell myself that it was only a movie, but the
terrific acting performances by Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow
and Kevin Spacey (especially Kevin Spacey,) made the movie seem very real.
I
think this is one of those films that people love to hate, even though they
know it's excellent.SPOILER TIME- Before seeing the ending, I really disliked the character
that
Brad Pitt played. I didn't understand why the producers had to make him
such
a jerk. However, it made so much sense after the ending. I was swayed to
believe that Spacey would lead the two cops to a bomb, and somehow the two
cops would symbolize the last two sins. I especially doubted that David
Mills would shoot John Doe, but now I realize that that was necessary in
order to make the movie so good. I should've realized that Morgan Freeman
was foreshadowing when he said "There will be no happy
ending."

******
2 August 2002
9

this was an entertaining movie for me.  i like brad pitt and morgan
freeman,
the actors being the main reason i bought it used, but the story is
engaging
as well.  it is graphic at times but nothing incredibly intense.. the
ending
is clever as in you cant see it coming 10 miles down the rode and the
ending
has a twist that will leave you thinking about it long afterwords.  i
wondered for hours if i even liked the movie but i rate movies based on
entertainment value alone and this one is worth your time.

******
30 July 2002
10

This is one of the most expertly structured thrillers I have ever seen. Brad
Pitt and Morgan Freeman are great. From writer Andrew Kevin Walker, the
writer of the disgustingly terrible 8MM and SLEEPY HOLLOW. This film was
much like 8MM as the murderer (whose name is not featured in the opening
credits so as to surprise you) seems to have no remorse for what it is that
he has done. Andrew Kevin Walker has created a more likable thriller with
SE7EN, a film that still shows killing in a very graphic nature, but is not
as vulgar or sickening. But, the film is far more violent. The killings are
very horrific and disturbing.Two detectives (Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman) are on the trail of a killer
who uses the seven deadly sins as a calling card on his random murders. The
supporting cast includes Gwyneth Paltrow (in a much smaller role than she
usually plays), John C. McGinley, Richard Schiff, Kevin Spacey, R. Lee
Ermey, Leland Orser, Richard Roundtree, Richard Portnow, and Charles Dutton.
Many of the characters that are listed as main ones, have very small parts
to play. The film mainly revolves around Freeman and Pitt and the elusive
killer. The film was destined to become a classic in the genre. And, it did.
SE7EN is one thriller you have to see. SE7EN gets 4/5.

******
3 July 2002
10

I would have to pick Se7en as my favourite film of the 90's. Although
very
dark and morbid to pick as a favourite film, I choose it as it sums up
everything I love about cinema. The script is outstanding from character
development to the boldest movie ending in film history. I remember the
first time I saw Se7en at the cinema, it was just before the buzz of the
plot began to get around. Sitting there enthralled by the opening title
sequence, realising this wasnt the usual hollywood fair. It is the
ending
that will always stick with me though, never before of since have I seen
a
British audience react in total astonishment to what they had just seen
as
they walked out of the cinema. Everyone was stunned, including myself.
This
is what I love about cinema, a series of pictures and sounds on a screen
that can reveal all sorts of emotions in people, fantastic.

******
12 June 2002
10

Colour and lighting, Fincher emphasizes shadows and dimly lit scenes--the
kind that lend more to the tone of the shot than to the ego of the star.
You'd be hard pressed to find any light situation in any of his films that
truly flatters the actors. Se7en is definitely Fincher's darkest movie--in
mood and in lighting. The majority of Se7en contains very little light, the
crime scenes being the most notable examples. In fact, most of Se7en's
lighting is directional, meaning that it comes from an artificial source
focused in one direction with a low falloff. The brightness of the desert
setting during the climax is a dramatic shift from the rest of the movie
and
is perfect for the change in tone and action of the finale. The most
interesting use of colour in Se7en comes when Mills and Somerset explore
John Doe's apartment. Everything is, of course, red and
dark.
Camera work and editing, The chase scene with Mills and Doe is about as
exciting as they come. The camera moves quickly with the characters, and
the
odd angles keep the audience from seeing everything--building paranoia and
escalating the tension. The steady movement of the SWAT team as they
descend
upon the sloth victim is another well-choreographed sequence. All of
Fincher's films feature some kind of chase scene, which is definitely a
good
thing, considering how effectively he pulls them off.
Production and set design, A lot of the settings are buildings in decay;
many of them were built from scratch and then made to look worn. I believe
that Fincher often films on sets rather than scouting out interior
locations
because actual interiors rarely live up to his meticulous imagination.
Rotting wood, rust, water stains and peeling paint all help to make each
scene totally believable--more like moody still life's than movie sets.In the spirit of rule breaking, Fincher makes his credits ascend upwards.
I'm not sure if this is the first time this has ever been done, but it's
the
only movie I have seen it in. Aside from scrolling up, the credits are also
visually interesting. Careless lines and scratches weave in and out of
text.


******
12 June 2002
10

Se7en is the most disturbing, horrifying, and intensely tragic
psychological
thriller of all time. It is so depressing that most people shunned it,
simultaneously claiming that it was ingenious (which is an undeniable
statement). Se7en is so terrifying that it makes The Silence of the Lambs
look like a children's movie! Why is Se7en so... disturbing, you might ask?
Well, in Silence, Clarice catches the serial killer -- Buffalo Bill -- AND
gets a promotion. In Se7en (~*~ SPOILERS ~*~) the detective kills the
serial
killer -- John Doe -- but, by doing so, he completes his nemesis' evil
scheme. It is this awful and inevitable conclusion that really makes Se7en
so creepy. Nevertheless, Se7en is an incredible and amazing motion picture.
The acting is awesome, the direction perfect, the soundtrack erie, and the
screenplay... well, I think you get the point. First, the acting: Brad Pitt
gives an Oscar-quality performance, and likewise for Morgan Freeman (which
is no big surprise). Gwyneth Paltrow's acting is under-appreciated yet
excellent, and Kevin Spacey is, well, terrifying! But despite the fact that
Se7en has a star-studded cast, all performances are subtle, and they blend
in well with everything else. However, much of the film's quality can be
mainly attributed to director David Fincher; considering that he is the
same
guy behind the flop Alien 3, you might even wonder whether he was ABDUCTED
by aliens before directing Se7en. And -- of course -- the music: deep, dark
undertones outline the mood and enhance the feel of the movie, making it
even more horrifying than it already would be. Another thing that makes
Se7en so great is the fact that you never see any of the murders, which
makes the horror purely psychological (as with Silence). Fincher was not
out
there to disgust you; he just wanted to scare the crap out of you and leave
you with something to think about, and he succeeded. By now, though, you
might be a bit puzzled by my opening statement: "The best of David Fincher
films!" No, I have NOT forgotten about Fight Club; I just think this is
even
better. Why? Well, in Fight Club, there are several different subplots and
philosophies floating around that don't connect and might confuse the
viewer. In Se7en, it is perfectly clear what the director is trying to say,
and there are no meaningless subplots (not even the one about ~*~ SPOILER
~*~ Paltrow's pregnancy, which just adds another degree of tragedy to the
already-depressing ending). There ARE some very disgusting parts, but this
is more because of the dialogue rather than what you actually see. If you
want to watch a good and thrilling suspense film, rent Se7en and surprise
yourself.Overall rating: 10/10

******
29 May 2002
10

this is such an amazing movie from top to bottom, i don't even know where
to
start. short of something truly god-like, this is the best script that will
ever be written by andrew kevin walker. graphically violent, stylish and
very crime noir-ish all at once without even coming close to cheesy.
brilliantly directed by david fincher, who using his superb directorial
skills by leaving the most depraved violence in the film up to the viewer's
imagination,  makes the crimes that much worse by showing graphic crimes
committed making the one you dont see more graphic by comparison. brad
pitt's best performance other than fight club. he and fincher have a
special
magic unseen between an actor and director in a long time. morgan freeman's
best work outside of shawshank redemption. kevin spacey's best work outside
of usual suspects, only due to the fact that he has way less screen time.
another great score by howard shore. an excellent performance by r. lee
ermey as the police chief. more masterful make-up by rob bottin. if you
dont
have this already, go out and buy yourself a copy. and get ready for a true
cinematic gem.

******
27 May 2002
10

POSSIBLE SPOILER ALERT!The 90's was a great decade for film and 1995 in particular gave us some of
the greatest motion pictures of our time (Usual Suspects, Casino, Heat et
al) and Seven is possibly the best film of the 90's (The Shawshank
Redemption aside).Never have I witnessed such a study of pure unadulterated evil conducted
with such style and panache as to make it endlessly watchable and shocking
like no other film I've ever seen.This film depicts the hellish state of society we sometimes find ourselves
in and the absolute evil that can exist in some that walk this earth. John
Doe is as close to the ultimate personification of evil that I've ever seen
in a film without hamming it up or following the usual cliched approach to
the hollywood bad guy (Take note Mr Pacino in The Devil's
Advocate).The final reel still chills to the bone seven years on. The way we feel for
Mills as he spars with Doe in the car journey not knowing that his world is
about to fall apart never fails to touch me. And the ending itself, on a
par
with Mr Spacey's other early career highlight from the same year.This is motion picture perfection devoid of the sugar-sweet ending so much
Hollywood junk suffers from. For once the Villain wins.

******
21 May 2002
10

This is one of the greatest movies i have ever seen. Morgan Freeman is as
incredible as usual, while Brad Pitt plays an overworked cop with a hot
fiance (Cameron Diaz)
Kevin Spacey is a magnificent actor, even when playing a deranged psycho
who
kills people who commit the Seven Deadly Sins.
This is a great movie, but watch it with friends, or you might freak
out.
Happy Viewing
Count Dooku :-)

******
11 May 2002
10

As a 26 year old...I've seen virtually every American flick on the shelves
over the past 20 years.Seven is the best movie I've ever seen.....bar none.Its quality is an example of near perfection....where every imaginable
variable in the equation of modern cinema is built to virtually ideal
specifications in telling the story.Truly unique... an absolute "must see" if you believe in such.


******
29 April 2002
10

This movie is the reason that I want to be a filmmaker when I am older.
David Fincher is a genius with a beautiful style.  He can turn the most
disgusting images into art with ambiant lighting, wonderful camera
movement,
and just amazing direction.  Fincher is God.

******
25 April 2002
10

I've never been at a loss for words in regards 
to a movie, but Seven always presents such a 
dilemma. How do you judge something so unique? 
What can you say that hasn't been said? This 
film will always be a classic, one worth watching 
multiple times over. I can never imagine anyone 
playing the roles of Mills and Somerset other
 than Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman. And the 
ending! Sometimes, saying very little is all one 
needs.

******
15 April 2002
8

Two detectives (one retiring, one 'wet-behind-the-ears') try to find and put
away a serial-killer who chooses major 'cardinal sinners' as victims. Even
the strongest constitutions may be challenged... and this one's not as
violent as one might guess.  Director Fincher also did "The Game," and
"Panic Room." Maybe we are being desensitized to the subject matter we are
exposed to in this film, but the story is telling us the dark human truths
some of us would probably argue against to our very grave.  The opening
credits, as some of you might already know, inspired similar sequences in
other films and television series (namely "The Practice").  After watching
this one, I was afraid for my very soul... and I, for the most part,
consider myself an 'Angel.'  God save the 'Devils.'   

******
10 April 2002
10

This movie is the best horror/ thriller movie ive ever seen. From my point
of view this movie does not have one single flaw every single thing about
this movie is awesome from its mad title sequence to its cool acting from
brad and morgan but most of all kevin!. Then to its very realistic and
disturbing deadly sin murders ( Sloth and lust are chillers) . But most of
all to its very non hollywood ending which was the perfect way to end the
film instead of everyone living happily ever after.
David Fincher is the king!!!!!!!10/10

******
9 April 2002
9

Warning: Here may be spoilers...Due to its dark nature, I can only watch this every year or so, but this is
easily one of my favorite movies of all time.  While the base premise seems
to be your typical Hollywood thriller stock, the heinous nature of the
crimes and outstanding character portrayals by Freeman, Pitt, and Spacey
make this a cut above all others.  Never mind the stunning
climax.Special mention to Brad Pitt for successfully arguing that his character
would shoot John Doe during the climax - those who have seen the DVD know
that the original script called for Freemans' character to do the shooting
(since he was retiring anyway).  This would have destroyed the
film.The heavy, rainy, gloomy setting, the sharp direction, and the movies
attention to detail raised the bar for the thriller genre.  I cannot praise
this film enough.

******
8 April 2002
10

Of my top 10 movies, Se7en counts for 1 through 5. Fantastic dialogue,
superb acting (OK Gwyneth but I've seen her do worse). The whole thing is
totally believable (with the one exception of the 'keep out' tape on the
inside) and let's face it most real life endings are not
happy.I have seen this movie over 50 times and I cannot think of many movies I
have seen more than twice (Pulp fiction, Fight Club, Mulholland Drive, The
Producers, Matrix, Bladerunner).I have sympathy for John Doe's point of view as I am sure does
Somerset.Kevin Spacey is amazing, this breaks in his voice during the car monologue
shows real psychotic emotion and the framing of the scene by Fincher is
simplistic genius.Pitt's acting at the end is truly gut wrenching and the subliminal flash
is
a clever touch used by Fincher again in Fight Club.Watch this movie again and study it for the classic it
is.

******
6 April 2002
10

"Se7en," or "Seven," was David Fincher's second directorial film (after
"Alien 3"), and WHOA!  His camera work was great, the script was well-done,
the cast were magnificent, I just couldn't stop loving this movie!  I loved
every moment of this movie: every scene, every dialouge, and the music by
Howard Shore gave audiences a shock with his style of music.  But, what
scared me the most was the ending.  I had the shakes throughout the whole
day after watching this movie.  If you've never seen "Se7en," then I suggest
you see this first before seeing David Fincher's other films.  Also,
oscar-winner Kevin Spacey gave us a shocking performance as John Doe, the
killer whose been doing the 7 deadly sins.  Check this movie
out!A+ 13/13 ****** (out of ******)

******
16 March 2002
10

Seven is a good movie. Extremly disturbing, but at the same time thought
provoking. The entire all star cast is just incredible in it, Morgan Freeman
amazing as always, Brad Pitt is also very good in it, Gwenyth Paltrow is
also her usual amazing in it. And the story is just so... so... you have to
see it. When I sat down to watch this movie I didn't expect too much from it, just
another serial killer movie, which in this case happens to be about a killer
who kills according to the seven deadly sins. But I was way wrong. This
movie combines great food for thought with some of the most disturbing parts
of movie history I've ever seen. One certian part in it, which those who've
seen it know what I'm talking about, made me jump more than I ever had
during a movie before. Wrapping it up, Se7en is damn good, a wow  story,
incredible performances and everything. If you haven't seen it, and aren't
at all squeimish, go see it right now. 

******
7 March 2002
10

Recently, 
I started ( as a new IMDB user ) to comment on old movies that I saw years
ago , .. & the reason is that I liked them very much & I'd like 2 waste my
time commenting on them despite the fact that no one might read my comments
, ..Any Way , .. 
I first saw ' Seven ' on TV. ,,, 
& I liked it very much , 
thinking that it would be greater if it was watched in Cinema ,..It has a unique & spectacular story , .. 
Its one of the most thrilling & exciting stories I've heard or seen on
movies ..It worth watching , it will keep u excited all the time& defenitely everyone will like it & would tell it to everyone ( as I did )..Still this question spinning on my head ..
Will anyone read my comments ?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!?!                   bye4now

******
21 February 2002
8

I loved the way Fincher directed this film.  The way he portrayed the theme
of "normalcy"
for Morgan Freeman's character is astonishing.  Using simple camera angles
and making it
easy for the eye to follow.  That also enhanced the shock factor of what
was
going to
happen. 

******
18 February 2002
10

Se7en stars Morgan Freeman as the world-weary detective preparing for
retirement and Brad Pitt as his young replacement in this moody crime
thriller that leaves you gripped from beginning to end.The two detectives are trying to track down a calculating, sadistic
killer,
known as John Doe, who is patterning his murders after the seven deadly
sins: Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Lust, Pride, Envy and Wrath.***SPOILERS***
These murders really push the barriers of violence in mainstream cinema,
with one overweight man forced to eat until he quite literally burst, one
prostitute being shagged to death by a giant, spiked dildo and one
horrifically mutilated victim found to be still alive.  However, most of
the
worst violence is suggested rather than blatantly displayed, and none of
the
murders actually occur onscreen, preventing the movie from becoming a
run-of-the-mill slasher movie.
***END SPOILERS***Morgan Freeman gives his best performance ( save that as Redd in The
Shawshank Redemption) as Somerset, the detective who's seen it all.  The
audience is really able to empathise with him as he solemnly goes from
crime
scene to crime scene.  He also has some of the films most chilling lines,
speaking of some of the horrors in society.Brad Pitt is great as well as the brash young rookie Mills.  He is more
the
action man of the two, but is every bit as well developed a character as
Somerset.  Pitt performs his best at the film's tense finale.  Gwyneth
Paltrow provides a balance to Brad Pitt's character as his wife, being
more
calm and friendly, and fitting comfortably into her supporting
role.***SPOILERS***
My favourite character, however, is John Doe, played chillingly well by
the
uncredited Kevin Spacey.  As he preaches his twisted message to the
detectives in the car journey towards the climax, you can't help but feel
that he's got a point.  In John Doe, Kevin Spacey has created the most
chilling killer since Hannibal Lecter.
***END SPOILERS***David Fincher showed the world that he was a fantastic director with this
movie, and he furthered the point with "Fight Club", meaning that he is
(almost) forgiven for Alien 3.  With the sombre mood, he manages to make
the
unnamed city every bit as threatening as John Doe.In conclusion, Se7en is a movie that you have to see, although not if
you're
squeamish.  Trust me, it will blow you away - 10/10.


******
14 February 2002
10

this is no horror movie...this is a statement of a sick and how sick a
society can be...which is sadly where nowadays society is going
to/throughthis particular movie has particular atmosphere...ever since that subway vandalism related to the money train movie, I am
almost certain this movie will produce its own copy cat of some
sortbe aware...

******
4 February 2002
9

"Se7en" is one of the best horror, thriller, mystery movies I have seen in
forever. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt work perfectly together and David
Fincher put that movie together wonderfully.
Recently I had not seen the movie but went ahead and bought the fairly
expensive DVD. But I tell you it was worth every $25 of it. If theres one
movie I could tell someone to go see right now, it would have to be
"Se7en".
A+    

******
26 January 2002
9

I thought this was a decent movie.  I did not think it was the great movie
that many who left comments rave about.  Here is why:(some spoilers, nothing big/about the end:)Why were city detectives handling this very serious case by themselves?
Where was the FBI?  Where were the psychologists and the profilers?  At
least, why weren't these detectives trained in how to deal with this
killer
on a psychological level and what kind of man they were looking for -- ie,
what he would look like, the kind of place he would live, etc.?  BASIC
profiling skills.Killers often return to the crime scene after the killing.  The detectives
could have caught this killer early in the film.  But I guess there
wouldn't
have been much of a movie if they were educated enough to know what they
were doing . . .Read a few books on serial killers and you will know more than these two
detectives did.Serial killers are methodical and patient, as the Morgan Freeman character
states.  Therefore, it does not make sense that this killer who started
this
killing a YEAR before the detectives knew what he was up to would skip
"wrath" entirely.  Victim number #6 (I won't mention because I don't want
to
spoil it) did nothing wrong.  The killer goes on in the back-of-the-car
scene that his victims weren't innocent --- blah blah blah -- but what
about
#6!!  #6 was innocent.What did Morgan Freeman learn from all his reading and study at the
library?
It did not help him at all with catching this guy or stopping his
killing.When Brad Pitt saw that the killer had taken a picture of him (Brad Pitt),
why didn't he worry that the guy might be interested in him or his
life?Morgan Freeman found the killer through that list of the people who
checked
out relevant library books. Why couldn't the killer have sat in the
library
and read the books?  What if the killer BOUGHT the books at a store?  He
was
independently wealthy, why did he need to check books out for two weeks
when
he could own them permanently?  Bought them with some of that stash of
cash
he had under his bed.  No records left behind.  No trail.  He went through
the trouble to cut off his fingertips, but didn't go to a
bookstore?The biggest disappointment for me was waiting through the whole film to
see
the detectives do something wise or brilliant or meaningful or assertive
to
get this case solved and have the killer fall right into their laps.  The
killer was dynamic.  The detectives were limp noodles.

******
17 January 2002
10

The title of the film 'Seven' is very exact and dominating in the telling
of
its story. Seven murders take place in the time of seven days, each death
based on one of the seven deadly sins. The climax to the film also takes
place at 7.07am. So the film cleverly bases its structure on the film's
title.
The film is in the genre of a neo-noir thriller. It gains its category
through the dark techniques used throughout the movie. The deliberately
dark
and shabby lighting is to express how corrupt and depressing city life is.
The fact the city is anonymous could prompt many people to name it
themselves, New York, Los Angeles its left up to the viewer, or perhaps
the
movie is saying many cities are like this around the world.
The film goes totally against the thriller cliche. The film throws away
the
modern day thriller rule book and makes its own rules where the good guy
doesn't always win and the bad guy doesn't necessarily get caught. In
Seven,
John Doe is the killer, a bland, ordinary looking guy, with a bland
ordinary
name, but thats the point, murderers aren't necessarily monsters they're
just everyday people like you and me. The idea of the movie is that in a
world this corrupt, anyone is capable of murder and sin.
This film does more than just give the usual tale of police chasing
killer,
it gives a film makers representation of modern living, and shows all the
possible evils lurking inside it.

******
14 January 2002
10

Se7en is a classic thriller, with an all-star cast including Morgan
Freeman
(on fantastic form) as an aging cop trying to solve this string of
outrageous murders with a new recruit (played excellently by Brad Pitt)
whos
wife (Gwynneth Paltrow, who I don't usually like but in this she's
fantastic) is trying to cope with the evils of the big city.
Kevin Spacey is amazing as the serial killer, he creates a fantastic
atmosphere of evil and mystery when on the screen.
A top film - watch it!

******
7 January 2002
8

What seemed to be a fairly typical formulaic serial killer mystery , with
the older, world weary  retiring cop, imparting his "wiser" and jaded view
of the world on a younger new comer, takes a sudden unexpected turn and
becomes a brilliant original. The conversation that transpires in the car
between the two main detective characters and the killer on the way to the
final scene is absolutely mesmerizing. What's really fascinating is to watch
Detective Somerset's (Morgan Freeman) face as he listens to John Doe explain
his view of the state of the world as he realizes how much it resembles his
own view as stated just the night before in the bar with his partner.
Especially in regard to the apathy of the populace. Of course John Doe's
solution to the problem is perverted and psychotic. John Doe is a very
effective representation of twisted religious fundamentalism that sees every
one that doesn't follow their particular moral code as infidels deserving of
death, and carrying out their death is only doing God's work. This movie
comes out of nowhere to be a piercing thought provoker. Added note: Great
and fitting closing credits song "The Heart's Filthy Lesson" by David Bowie
from his much underappreciated album, Outside.    

******
25 December 2001
9

One of three films I've seen in the past ten years or so which I consider a
masterpiece. I don't want to ruin it by commenting any more than that. The
other two films on my list, though, happen to be "Down by Law," directed by
Jim Jarmusch, with Tom Waits, Roberto Benigni, and John Lurie; and "Henry
Fool," directed by Hal Hartley.  How's that for a movie
review?

******
20 December 2001
10

Considering how little gore is present, this has to be considered one of the
best horror films ever. Kevin Spacey radiates pure evil and indeed he,
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt all give top-notch performances. The hair
raising suspenseful finale in the middle of nowhere with the trio and the
horror-filled box makes me cringe with every viewing. This film has it all:
great acting, great dialog, great cinematography, and much emotion.


******
20 December 2001
9

Before seeing this movie, I was expecting great things.  All of my friends
who had seen it before me had told me what a great movie it was.  It was
good, a taught thriller that was quite satisfying.  Until the ending, that
is, which was the worst cop out of an ending that I could imagine for this
film.Up until the very last four minutes of this film, I would have rated it a
10.  The cinematography was fantastic, the acting by Morgan Freeman and R.
Lee Emery in particular fantastic.  Also, Kevin Spacey was very good as
John
Doe, but there was something particularly hollow in his demeanor at the
end.
Without giving away the details, there is no way this is in the top 100
films on IMDB, but it is a good film.  It's no Citizen Kane,
though.The obvious comparison for this movie is "Fight Club," another Fincher
effort.  Fincher is much more successful in "Fight Club," though,
especially
on the ending, which felt not only natural, but left you with closure
(unlike in "Se7en," where you are definitely left feeling that there was
another half hour of unfinished business, or the ending should have been
different).  I loved fight club, but "Se7en" I would not go and see again.
Just flat out not nearly as good a movie.

******
14 December 2001
9
This movie is nothing short of amazing. The more I think about it, the
more I believe that I only gave it 9 instead of 10 because I didn't
like the ending. And I didn't like the ending, not because it wasn't
real or well written, but because it wasn't a happy ending where the
good guy "gets" the bad guy.This movie is incredibly deep and in the mean time, very enjoyable.
Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Kevin Spacey and Gweneth Paltrow deliver
masterful performances. Paltrow's performance practically ruined the
movie for me because she was so convincing.I would recommend that people own this movie. Even though it has a rap
for being gross, most of the gross parts are in the mind of the viewer.This movie is proof that the most brilliant rendering of horror is that
of human imagination. It proves that movie makers who spend millions of
dollars making this computer graphics monster to look scary are looking
in the wrong place. There is a part where someone is starved to the
point where he eats his tongue. This most cruel thought that escaped
even the most twisted producers of horror movies is not even depicted.
Yet, when it is simply thrown out there, you cannot help the chills
that run up your spine.. It is as if you are seeing this horrible act
take place.. Each one of us will imagine it in his/her own disgusting
and horrific way, yet all of us will have that chill. This is because
the writing of the script is so solid, and the delivery of the actors
is so strong that you BELIEVE them.The movie's plot is the story of two homicide detectives, one old and
retiring, the other young and new.. Both have contradicting views that
represent the old vs new conflict in its generality. The young cop
still believes in good, he still believes his job is to "catch the bad
guys." The older cop's view has changed over time to just collecting
evidence, he has seen too many "bad guys" slip away to still believe
that his work actually leads to avenging the murdered victims. One
studies the mindset of the murderer, the other studies the evidence and
the finger prints. They are truly a pair.This pair is assigned a daunting task.. That of a serial killer killing
through applying the seven sins on people whom he perceives are doing
them. For the sin of Gluttony, he would feed an overweight man until he
dies.. And so forth. The killer is creative and is unbelievably
dedicated and cruel.The movie is not simply a thriller where you sit on the edge of your
seat waiting for the next gruesome murder to unfold, nor is it a
trivial action movie where you know the good guy won't be harmed or
that the bad guy will be caught. I would have liked to see the movie end on any different note than the
one it ended on, but it's just the harsh reality that the movie wanted
to deliver.In addition to the magnificent tale, the movie deliver several warning
bells, such as police personnel in police stations who share info with
the press for money. Also, the idea that the FBI having a few "flags"
over certain books and people who borrow them or buy them. These are
realities of the police world that were never addressed before and are
addressed effectively yet in a realistic sense in the movie.

******
19 November 2001
10

This is a film that will scare you and will be in the back of your mind
forever.  I loved this movie for it's creepy effect.  It is in the vain of
such mentally challenging and scary features as Angel Heart and The
Changeling.  What really makes this film is it's use of a mystifying story
line.  Even though the killer is eventually found, the mystery doesn't stop
there.  Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, and R. Lee Ermey among others round out a
very good line-up.  Pitt is good as the foul-mouthed young detective Mills. 
Freeman is awesome as the aging and wisdom-filled detective Somerset.  The
choice of villain is an especially nice touch but telling would break a
great story.  Overall, David Fincher exceeded all expectations for this film
and that is possibly the main reason it is a classic.10 out of 10.  Try to watch this movie with the lights
out.
  

******
26 October 2001
10
Directed by: David Fincher. Written by: Andrew Kevin Walker. Starring:
Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman. Co-Starring: Gwyneth Paltrow and Kevin
Spacey.Favorite line: I've been trying to figure something in my head, and
maybe you can help me out, yeah? When a person is insane, as you
clearly are, do you know that you're insane? Maybe you're just sitting
around, reading "Guns and Ammo", masturbating in your own feces, do you
just stop and go, "Wow! It is amazing how f**king crazy I really am!"?
Yeah. Do you guys do that?*******WARNING: Possible spoilers ahead*******One of the best mindf***s ever penned for the big screen, Se7en
wouldn't have made my list if it hadn't been for the DVD (which was a
better print quality than the original in theatres). The cut scenes on
the DVD add to the whole aura of this film, and for me, make it that
much better. I find the whole concept fascinating to conceive and
somewhat disturbing to receive. Of course the film is based on the
seven deadly sins and while it's completely religious in nature,
Fincher seemed to focus more on the crimes than their religious
implications. This is a very perverse and dark film, but that's what
makes it great.Plot/Story: This is one of those great stories that has one of the best
endings in Hollywood history. The plot twists kept coming and coming
that by the time the end hit you were so spun around that it was a
compete shock to see it. What's even more impressive are the two
alternate endings were almost as good as the one Fincher went with (one
was actually filmed, the other was only on stills). The story itself
revolves around a retiring detective and his up and coming replacement
as they push each others buttons while trying to solve the most
disturbing case either of them has ever been involved in. The villain
(Kevin Spacey) meanwhile, has been planning to carry out his psychotic
rage for well over a year and in the course of week has set a whole new
standard in serial killing. This is an excellent, well thought-out
script that deserved more awards and nominations than it got.Acting: Freeman and Pitt are two of my favorite actors and they eat up
the screen with two very believable characters. Paltrow does an okay
job, a lot of people say she was excellent, but there's only so much
you can do as a supporting cast, pregnant wife ya know? Spacey on the
other hand takes his cake and eats it too. I hadn't seen Se7en since it
came out until I got the DVD and the thing I remembered most about the
movie was that the bad guy was great. When I watched the DVD and saw
Spacey I nearly crapped my pants! I was shocked I couldn't remember his
face, but stunned that I had such a vivid memory of the character. Some
his best work was done on this film also.Characters: The characters themselves are not as amazing as the people
playing them, you can't relate to any of them and they all seem so
complicated you wish the movie were longer just so you could figure
them out. Of course if the movie were any longer it would have really
dragged in a number of places.Effects/Setting: The setting is typical for the mood. Everything is
dark and gloomy, it rains all the time, the people are brooding and at
times you almost understand why John Doe has went nuts and felt he
needed to commit his crimes. The deadly 'sins' are what make it
impressive, from gluttony to the full uncut vanity (cut so terribly
short in the theatres), the stuff John Doe has done to these people is
full of cringe factor.Score/Soundtrack: Like the setting the music is just as moody and
black. Perfect fit for a film like this.Se7en usually makes everyone's Top 10, but not mine. It's a great
movie, but the ending alone can't save it all. The pacing at certain
times really bores me, and I know I can't be the only one. The brooding
nature of the film is actually a part of the experience; Fincher makes
it hard to relate to the characters for the art of it (I think). This
is one of the best thrillers ever made, bar none. Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt prove why they are two of Hollywood's most sought after
commodities and still it serves as a stepping-stone for Kevin Spacey
and Gwyneth Paltrow. One thing, though, don't watch this film if you're
in a bad mood, you might find yourself committing seven deadly sins.
Yes, I went there.

******
26 October 2001
10

Really one of the best thrillers ever! What's strange? The detectives
discover the guilty casualty, we know who's he before the end, we see him,
he delivers himself to the police, all happens in a mysterious, rainy and
sad city, until the smashing end. A masterpiece of our
years.
You must see this film from the open titles (the most terrific I've ever
seen) till the end titles.  

******
6 October 2001
9

I never specifically asked for this film. In fact, it was bought for me,
with money left over from buying 'The Shining'. But am I ever glad it was
bought for me.This is really great stuff. A dark rain-soaked city gave it style, superb
performances by Morgan Freeman as a burned out veteran, and by Brad Pitt as
hot-shot David Mills gave it creditable performances. John Doe was suitably
chilling, and the plot unfolded brilliantly.A few people say that the gore should have been cut back, but this is
something I disagree with. Not because I'm a gore-hound, but the scenes of
almost untamed brutality injected the horror of the whole situation into the
stylish surroundings. The sloth victim in particular. A whole
year....There are some minor gripes however. I felt that the majority of time was
spent on the first three victims, then the rest of them were slightly rushed
through. At the end car ride, I was still guessing how exactly it was going
to end. When the box made an appearance though, I knew straight away what
was in it, although I didn't know how Mills would react until he
did.Lastly, and this is nothing to do with the actual film itself, but I am
positively baffled by people who say that it frightened them, and that it
was scary. This film was very atmospheric, and at times, it was somewhat
edgy. But scary? Don't make me laugh.Anyway, a superb modern horror.9.5/10 - Highly recommended. 

******
4 October 2001
10
** WARNING SOME SPOILERS AHEAD**All-original serial killer movie with so much twists as a rollercoaster
ride, the most remarkable thing about of this movie is being an absolute
work of genius from such a young and unexperienced director. Using all the
old formulas, using all the old paces, using all the old actor's tecniques,
the movie reinvents a world of cinema, and establishes an example. John
Mills, a young homicide detective, is a newcomer to the city where the
veteran Williams Somerset has worked for years. Mills is retiring, and he
will be substitued by Mills. Somerset agrees with Mills sticking around him
for a week, seven days, during which he will supposedly give some tips of
the trade to the Mills. Turns out, this week is also the week when a scarily
methodical serial killer purges his obsession. As Mills and Somerset
investigate the death of a titanically obese man, everything leads to the
conclusion that it was a homicide. When a famous lawyer is killed and the
word "Greed" is written with his blood, they fear the worst. When they find
the word "Gluttony" written with grease at the obese man's death site, the
worst is confirmed: there is a killer which acts according to the seven
deadly sins. This will be the ultimate test to both an experienced man and a
rookie youngster. And they will find out that everything they think they can
foresee is actually wrong. They will find out that the man they are
following is actually controlling them. Making history, the movie relies on
quasi-expressionist ways to transmit an entire mood: the weather never
changing, contributing to a depressed view of a depressing world. The
violence comes never from actions, but from the pictures, the shots are
almost fixed, the time is never rushed, and the movie never gives up on
itself, constructing, inventing, inovating, thrilling and scaring. This is
not a light-hearted experience. This is an experience in the whole sense of
the word. This movie is an unique oeuvre, and will stand the test of time by
the way it is inimitable. A test of a director's talent, and a true cult
movie which demands multiple viewings. 

******
4 October 2001
9

There is no need for many words in reviewing this movie  as itleaves you wordless.  It is one of the greatest thrillers ever, not asa who dunnit, but just in the venture to understand everything thathappens.  At some points it is confusing, but that is made up at theend.  As long as you have a strong stomach, this is a brilliantmovie to see.

******
27 September 2001
9

The way the story builds is very entralling. The technical aspects of the
movie like sound effects, screenplay, is so good that it is not noticeable
at all, you simply get into the story. There is a scene where the camera
looks at the car going away from the city into the plains between
powerlines
and all that.. the peculiar feel I got during that scene is quite
indescribable and unforgetable. One among the best made movies I have
seen.


******
14 September 2001
10

Thrillers are my favorite type of movies, and this is my favorite
thriller, so basically this is more or less my favorite movie of
all-time!!!!
Brad Pitt has become an awesome actor, not content to rest on his
prettyboy image, and you just can't go wrong with Morgan Freeman.  To top
it
off, you have Gwyneth Paltrow posing as Pitt's wife, and a cameo by one of
my favorite actors, who I sadly cannot reveal.
Se7en is the story of two detectives (Pitt & Freeman), trying to catch
a
patient and determined killer.  John Doe (played by someone whom I cannot
name), bases his murders upon the writings of Dante and his idea of seven
deadly sins; gluttony, greed, pride, sloth, lust, envy and wrath.  The
detectives must catch Doe before he completes the 7 murders and disappears
from the public eye.
What can be said about this movie, other than "SEE IT"?  It is dark, it
doesn't pull any punches and unlike most movies it stays true to itself
right through to the end credits.  Many movies for box-office success will
sugar-coat their endings at the expense of the story.  That is not the case
here.  Here, they go the whole nine yards and it pays off in every
way.
Pitt and Freeman are great opposite one another.  While Pitt is
youthful
and energetic, throwing caution to the wind, Freeman is experienced,
calculated and thoughtful with each move.  They have a strong screen
chemistry that only heightens the payoff in the final scene.
Gwyneth Paltrow, while not carrying a lot of screen time, rings true in
each scene she appears in.  She is not only beautiful, but has a presence
that is very strong opposite greats like Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman.
Se7en has set a new standard for movie thrillers.  It is not filled
with
camera tricks or long chase scenes down dark alleys (although there is one.
It relies upon an intelligent story and fantastic performances.  It is a
classic for fans of this genre for all-time.

******
4 September 2001
10

This movie is one of the best I have seen.  It is similar to the Bone
Collector which I also enjoyed.  This movie shows how men think and what
is
possible if men do think.  The history involved in the movie is also
interesting.  Not many movies make use of books and poetry as this movie
did.  Morgan Freemon and Brad Pitt delivered excellent
performances.

******
24 August 2001
10

Former wiz kid David Fincher set his legend into motion with this
impressively claustrophobic, exquisitely decorated film which loosely
comments on the seven deadly sins (hence the title) but more pertinently
focuses on the brilliantly cracked mind of a serial killer. Brad Pitt,
Gwyneth Paltrow and even the supremely gifted Morgan Freeman are naught but
secondary window dressing next to the revelatory production design and art
direction by Arthur Max  and Gary Wissner respectively. Se7en establishes a
new standard for the impact of set design in a horror/slasher picture and
provided the box office clout Fincher needed to mastermind his near perfect
"Fight Club."
  
 
 

******
18 August 2001
10

I am not a Brad Pitt fan , but he is excellent in Se7en. I never thought he
could act so well. Once again Morgan Freeman, one of the most underrated
actors ever, gives an brilliant performance. This is a must see
movie.

******
16 August 2001
10

Okay, I'm sick of this whole, "style over substance" thing that everybody is
talking about. What are you trying to imply, that the film was made without
a script - that they made it up as they went along... It seems critics don't
take the time to decide why they hate films anymore, it's a lot easier to
say "style over substance", film is a visual medium for heavens sake. No
other director has take the amount of flack for this than David Fincher,
he's every critics whipping boy - and why, because he began his career
making music videos, because he made Alien 3 and it failed to live up to
"lord" Cameron's Aliens (1986)... It's just plain laziness - for god's sake
take the time to analyse the film before you write it off as a
failure.Now onto the film. Se7en is basically the buddy cop movie, except the cops
in question aren't really buddies... It's also a serial killer movie, but it
has the guts to break every rule about serial killer movies you thought you
knew. I love the questions this film raises, and if you're one of the people
who I was addressing at the start of this review you'll probably be
scratching you're heads - but yes, this film has a powerful
message.Se7en deals with society, it deals with something that we see everyday but
most of us turn our backs to it. You only have to open a news paper and
you'll see a list of terrible atrocities that have befallen people,
horrendous things happening everyday, and we just turn our backs, in the
words of John Doe (Kevin Spacey - and yes I got my I.D. from his character)
"we see a sin on every street corner, and we tolerate it, we tolerate it
because it's common"... Every word delivered by Doe is of importance, it
should sound clichéd but Spacey's delivery is so great that it becomes
truthful, he say's later on, after describing why he chose to kill who he
killed (Only in a world this sh*ty, can you say these people are innocent
and keep a straight face"... This is all serious stuff, and I think one of
the reasons people dismiss the film is because these are issues that they
are not ready to face. As everyone knows and comments on, is that Fincher is one of the most
visually talented directors working today, and despite what people have said
the gloomy low-key lighting and constant rain work brilliantly, creating an
atmosphere, I must also point out Fincher's use of sound design, he and the
sound engineer Ren Klyce evoke a sense of urban detachment whenever they
can, the scenes with Summerset (Morgan Freeman) in his apartment, the
violent domestic arguments audible in the other rooms. All of this is not
Fincher trying to say, "Hey look how clever I am" but to draw the audience
in. He needs those shadows to create suspense, to distract the eye of the
viewer to something else, to lure them into relaxation.Yet still so many people have a problem with this film, they overlook the
fact that it is a gripping detective thriller, or that the characters are
100% believable... There too concerned with what they call the sadistic
gruesomeness that Fincher revels in. Well excuse me, but I though this was
an adult film, this could have been a whole lot more violent, the murders
are implied, you see only the after effects... If you have a problem with
having to imagine things in films, then stop going to see R rated movies,
stick to the family films.There's so much more I want to say about this film, I don't think it gets
the credit it deserves... And to all those people who have called it
depressing - yes it is and so it should be, the world is not all sugar
sprinkles and candy canes... And thank you to Fincher and writer Andrew
Kevin Walker for giving us something a little darker, for as Summerset
states at the end of the film... "Ernest Hemmingway once wrote, the world is
a fine place, and worth fighting for - I agree with the second
half"...A Modern Masterpiece 10/10 


******
15 August 2001
9

A devastating portrait of a psychotic killer's New York masterplan
finally gives Brad Pitt the opportunity to move into the heavyweight
division of A list actor.Superbly shot by David Fincher in a city that seems to be raining
24/7, the movie will keep you hooked and guessing until it reaches
it's bleak and cold-hearted ending.

******
2 August 2001
9

Se7en entered British cinemas and I'm not entirely sure we were prepared for
such an intelligent and demanding movie.  Spacey, Pitt and Freeman turn in
some of the best performances imaginable for this type of movie and I could
not believe that they were so ill-rewarded for their acting efforts.  A film
that stretches the brain (literate film viewers whooped with joy to see such
references hauled into public awareness) whilst recognising that most might
not get all the clues (cue Cliffs Notes folks), well it makes a change from
cheap devil-worshipping mythologies.Walker created a screenplay sizzling with wit and intrigue.  You see almost
nothing of the SEVEN that stalk the plot (though I swear a minor edit has
occurred on the video version at the end regarding Tracey).  And the
cinematography (of which much was made in the press regarding silver prints
to highlight the darkness) has to be some of the most imaginative ever
providing for a thriller drama of this kind.I still find little intriguing details to attend to whenever I watch this
movie - like others in my fav raves catalogue (Memento, The Usual Suspects,
Twelve Monkeys, Fight Club) it demands something from the viewer's intellect
and attention that some felt might have bypassed the "Star Wars" generation
of special effects kids.  Wrong - I'm of that generation too, and trust me,
there is still room for the literate thriller to pull the
punters.

******
31 May 2001
10

It's rare when all the pieces of a movie fit together perfectly. But that is
exactly what we get with "Seven." Everything contributes to the dark mood of
the picture. It's always raining, the music is sombre, and the script always
keeps you guessing and jumping at shadows. But what sets "Seven" apart from
all the rest is its acting. Morgan Freeman can do more with a simple sigh
than many actors can achieve with a paragraph of dialogue. And while I
always viewed Brad Pitt as a himbo, he proves in this movie, that he can
act. But many movies have great acting. Where "Seven" stands head and
shoulders above others is in its script and direction. There are virtually
no flaws in this movie. 5 stars out of 5 ! 

******
27 May 2001
9

"Se7en" is definitely one the best crime thrillers of perhaps all time. I
remember the first time I saw this movie. It was in the theaters with 7 or 8
of my friends and everyone hated it except me and one other friend of mine.
The reason was probably because they didn't understand it (that's what we
were told by some adults, 'that we wouldn't understand it' and it somehow
stuck in everyone else's heads). It's not that hard to understand and I was
13 at the time I saw it in theaters. The art direction/set direction is one
of the best ever. It had that creepy thriller feel to it by having every
scene in it be a gloomy rainy day, the wardrobe being mostly black and
shooting it in what looks like the slums of New York. I do get sick of the
people who say that this film is sick and disturbing when they know damn
well what the movie is about before they go and see it, and it's like, what
do you expect it to be? It's a serial killer movie about a psycho who
murders people based on the seven deadly sins. It's supposed to be
disturbing and show some grisly afterviews of horrific and bizarre killings.
Especially the gluttony victim. I shiver every time I see him. It's not the
whole movie though. The acting was very good and Kevin Spacey's acting, of
course, was by far the best in the film and certainly creeped me out. The
plot was really good and original though some people say it's been done
before. If so, then this is the best use of that plot and the ending is one
you rarely see in movies which makes it stand out from the rest. Overall,
"Se7en" was just an incredible crime thriller and I recommend anyone to go
out and rent it.My Verdict: 9/10

******
24 May 2001
9

Se7en is a chilling, concise, psychological thriller. Somerset (Freeman) and
Mills (Pitt)are two detectives trying to track down a serial killer. The
movie's simplicity is what makes it so great. There are some wonderful
contrasts made between the characters and settings throughout this movie
that add to film's mystique. The detectives encounter a variety of
interesting, colorful characters that go well with the shocking nature of
the different killings that occur.If you haven't seen this film, the ending will leave you speechless.Be sure to check out the DVD platinum edition that contains several special
features including two full-lenght commentaries with the stars and
producers.One of the best.
*****

******
29 April 2001
9

This movie was incredible. It is one of those murder mystery types like
"Primal Fear" and "The Usual Suspects" although, A LOT more gory. Actually,
the real name of the killer in the movie was not included in the opening
credits because if he was, it would have given away the entire surprise
towards the end. I was shocked and amazed at who it was and guaranteed, you
will be too! I highly recommend this movie

******
13 April 2001
9

Seven is by far one of the best serial killer movies ever made. This movie
has a great premise, fantastic actors, great direction by David Fincher,
and
a fantastic gritty atmosphere.The story centers around 2 dectectives, both going down seperate paths.
Det.omerset(Morgan Freeman) is heading toward retairment while Detective
Mills(Brad Pitt)is just starting out his career. He's full of energy and
opinions. Soon the both are on the msot disturbing case they have ever come
across. A serial killer is killing his victims based on the seven deadly
sins(Gluttony, Sloth, Wrath, Lust, Greed, Envy. The killer is very smart
and
the two detectives soon realize that he is using them as a pawn to complete
his masterpiece.The acting in this film is amazing. Morgan Freeman turns in a great
performance. very subtle, yet commanding. He's like a wise-man spreading
his
knowledge to others. Brad Pitt is also very good in a more energetic
performance. His character is pretty unlikable but he does have a certain
charm. Gwyneth Paltrow is a bit underused but she is still very good. She's
one of the only bright spots in this othe wise dark film. The killer, who's
identity i won't give away here is avery effective in his small amount of
screen time. He gives a very creepy performance that will leave a lasting
impression.Another thing this film has going for it is style. David Fincher has put
together a film with a fascinating atmosphere. It's very dark and it sets
th
tone for the film.I suggest you go out and rent this film if you haven't seen it. Also for
fans of the film the 2 disc dvd is a must have.

******
13 April 2001
8

This movie has one of the more original endings I've seen in years.  Not to
spoil it, but it's an unexpected twist to a gruesome, yet intriguing.  Great
movie to watch by yourself at 2 AM, though you might not want to sleep
afterwards.  It's one of those movies you can't watch and not think about it
afterwards.  

******
7 April 2001
9

Se7en is definitely the best crime thriller of perhaps all time. I remember
the first time I saw this movie. It was in theaters with 7 or 8 of my
friends and everyone but me and one other friend of mine hated it. The
reason was probably because they didn't understand it (that's what we were
told by some people, 'that we wouldn't understand it'). It's not that hard
to understand and I was 13 at the time I saw it in theaters. The art
direction/set direction is one of the best ever. It had that creepy thriller
feel to it by having every scene in it be a gloomy rainy day, the wardrobe
being mostly black and shooting it in the slums of New York. I do get sick
of the people who say that this film *is* sick and disturbing when they know
damn well what the movie is about before they go and see it, and it's like,
what do you expect it to be? It's a serial killer movie with death and
murder. It's supposed to be disturbing and show some gruesome murders. It's
not the whole movie though. The acting was very good and Kevin Spacey's
acting, of course, was by far the best in the film and certainly creeped me
out. The plot was really good and if it's been done before then this is the
best use of that plot and the ending is one you rarely see in movies which
makes it stand out from the rest. Overall, Se7en was just an incredible
crime thriller and I recommend anyone to go out and rent
it.My Verdict: 10/10

******
4 April 2001
10

This movie immediately made it into my top five and has remained there now
for six years...soon to be se7en.  Sorry...couldn't resist. 
;^)The cast is a dream.  Morgan Freeman's negative-but-wise Detective William
Somerset is the perfect counterpoint to Brad Pitt's brash, hopeful Detective
David Mills.  Gwyneth Paltrow, although under-used, makes an impact as Tracy
Mills, David's charming, beautiful wife.  and Kevin Spacey as John Doe is
the most memorable.  The intelligent, quiet serial-killer has almost become
a cliche lately, but Spacey's performance is menacing without ever having to
appear as such.  He just plain creeped me out.The pacing of this movie is perfect.  Detective work is a very slow, tedious
process.  Fincher's direction effectively portrays it as such.  The show has
a few fast and furious moments, but for the most part it moves at a snail's
pace, which is appropriate given the subject matter.  And the tension just
builds and builds...something many movies try for but few
achieve.The screenplay is also wonderful.  Conversations seem real, not forced as in
most movies.  In Se7en, the dialogue (and the acting) made me feel as though
I was looking in on the lives of the characters rather than having those
characters play out a story for me.I, unlike a few people here, thought the ending was perfect.  Those who
disagree with me, think about it in the context of the real world.  Maybe
you didn't get to see what you thought *should* have happened, but you have
to admit that you saw what most likely *would* have happened.Also, let me rebut comments which deride this film as being unnecessarily
violent or a gore-fest.  There were only two scenes of on-screen violence in
the entire movie.  One involves a gunshot on a long lens, and the other
involves a close-up but barely discernable blow with a tire iron.  While we
see plenty of blood and guts in other scenes, we do not see the acts of
violence in the majority of them.Se7en is a perfect 10 in my books.

******
29 March 2001
10

(Spoilers)"These days you can't just tap people on the shoulder. You have to hit them
with a sledgehammer. That way you can be sure you have their complete
attention."This quote essentially defines an incredible movie. From the outset, David
Fincher ensures the audience knows this is not going to be an easy film to
watch. The relentless torrents of rain, bleak and depressing locations and
the consistent use of funeral-style attire maintain the very visual sense of
foreboding and dread throughout.First, a basic outlay. The film centres on two stereotypical police
officers. One, a young rookie by the name of Mills (Brad Pitt), has been
transferred (at his request) to the dark, unnamed city in which the story
takes place. The other is veteran detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman), a
veteran cop is due to retire in seven days (obviously an attempt at either
continuity within the film or a 'red herring' as to it's real content). For
his last week, Somerset is partnered with Mills, and it's not before long
that they stumble upon a gruesome murder, wherein an obese man appears to
have eaten until he physically burst. Initially Somerset wants nothing to do
with the case, but certain clues convert his theory to believe that this
murder is not as 'cut and dry' as it seems to be, leaving him a final case
to solve before he puts his career to rest. After a breakthrough via
somewhat illegitimate methods, the two detectives push closer to their
potential killer. More murders ensue until the film nears its climax with a
simply unforgettable collision of events.The acting is clearly worthy of note. Before watching the film this reviewer
was perfectly aware of Brad Pitt's 'pretty boy' image. Well all I can say is
that Pitt was perfectly cast (in the role that may well have pushed his
career into the A' list) as David Mills. His good looks and somewhat cocky
attitude did him huge favours when portraying a character in need of every
one of these assets. Mills' arrogance as a character lights up his
inexperience as a cop like a neon beam in the city's own dark alleyways.Freeman is superb as always, confirming the theory that great actors don't
need words to act. An example I have seen frequently used is the scene where
Mills and Somerset discover the first victim. Mills, full of enthusiasm for
his first case proudly declares "Ladies and gentlemen, we have ourselves a
homicide." At this point Somerset turns to face his partner and raises his
eyebrows a millimetre. It's not much, but this simple gesture says more than
most actors can from a page of dialogue. Some people question the validity
of his continuously calm attitude in even the films most horrible of
situations. My answer to that is simply this - he has been doing this job
for so long that nothing has the power to shock him any more. It is like his
senses have been numbed to the horror around him simply because he has been
dealing with these atrocities for so long. Even so, the case does
affect him in ways, most clearly in the films 'final showdown' but
throughout as well. For example there is a scene where Somerset cannot sleep
for noises of displeasure outside his window. Symbolically these noises also
represent the effects of the outside world on Somerset's mentality -
sometimes he cannot sleep as a result of it.Finally Kevin Spacey must be credited (though he isn't in the title
sequence) for turning in a truly electrifying performance. Surely if Morgan
Freeman is one of today's best actors, then Spacey is one of tomorrow's. His
portrayal of 'John Doe' is the most brutally honest and terrifying portrayal
of a serial killer ever (yes, including Hannibal Lecter).. There are many
comparisons. Both are clearly intelligent men, both have an exterior which
suggests a physical inferiority and both are seriously disturbed. The reason
I find Spacey's 'Doe' more threatening however, is due to the seemingly
relentless pursuit of his beliefs. Whereas Lecter had other interests, 'John
Doe' seems hell-bent on performing the mission he has set out to achieve,
and his determination makes him that much more terrifying.In my opinion David Fincher's 'Se7en' is one of the best films I have ever
had the privilege of viewing. It's script (By Andrew Kevin Walker) and
direction perfectly complement the film¹s dark and dreary tones, while the
score ensures every moment of music is a subtle layer on the movies overall
effect. If you watch 'Se7en' and hate it, watch it again. Many people I know
watched it and thought it too depressing, too terrifying and generally too
much¹. I plead to these people, watch the movie again. Perhaps it is because
you are more prepared for the events that occur the second time round,
though I guarantee the film will shock you just as much, no matter how many
times you see it.10 out of 10.

******
20 March 2001
9

  Se7en is simply a great movie. It provides a unique motive for aserial killer: to kill violators of the seven deadly sins.  Is a personjustified in killing if doing it for the greater cause of society?  Oris it merely a veneer used to excuse morbid pleasures? Se7en discussesthis moral question.  Besides the plot, he characters are not badeither.  Brad Pitt plays a defiant, rookie-like cop who partners withthe wise, veteran Morgan Freeman.  Brad Pitt of course acts to the bestof his ability.  It's too bad that he has achieved the taboo status ofbeing a heart-throb.  Morgan Freeman though is respected for his greatroles in the past. 
  The greatest part of the story ,though, is the ending which isn'texactly a surprise but still is great how it ties the story together.   Another good attribute of the movie are the sets.  They fulfill theirtask of being depressing, dark, and just something that you'd see on arainy, dismal day in the city.  Even the scenes in the large sunnyfields seem to be oddly depressing and dismal.  
  Watch a great film: Se7en.

******
19 March 2001
9

Watching Se7en was quite a unique experience.  From the
beginning with the very interesting opening credit scene, to the very
end, with John Doe and the detectives.  What makes this film so
good, is not only the story, which really gets you thinking, but the
way it was filmed.  Some of the coolest camera angles,
cinematograpic effects, etc!  Well, this is just a cool movie... and
David Fincher is really good with dvd's.  He truly understands
sound, picture and overall enjoyment of a movie.  Fight Club had a
great dvd, and now that the Se7en is released on dvd... we can all
be in our happy little basements... enjoying it.

******
13 March 2001
8

SEVEN is a movie that won't leave you with that "happy feeling" after
viewing but it will affect you emotionally in some way. You won't feel as
though you've seen "Sound of Music" but movies with underlying themes are
becoming a rare beast in most Hollywood schlock nowadays. Below may contain
*Spoilers* so be forewarned.The film is brilliantly lighted and photographed evoking a noir-like feeling
in the nameless, perpetually rain-soaked city it takes place in. The  murder
scenes are truly sickening and as dark as the crimes that are portrayed but
does the movie clearly evoke it's main underlying theme (civilization's
increasing apathy causing our decay) or does the viewer lose it's meaning in
the movie's superb visualization?A lot has been said about the gore factor which in reality is somewhat
under-stated in the film. No one is killed in a on-camera closeup and all
but one of the killings are showed as an aftermath, the victim viewed
briefly on screen and then revisited via Black and White 8x10's that fill
aproximently a tenth of the frame. Many films show much more graphic
violence although Seven alludes to a much more insidious deed and the viewer
comes away with the feeling that they witnessed them in a much more graphic
way than what was shown. All great horror movies do this as our imaginations
are much more frightening than the actual image. It is also what makes well
written horror novels much more frightening than the run-of-the-mill slasher
movie.The fact that most people remember the movie as being extremely gory says a
lot about it's effective presentation which may also lend itself to being
written off as just a gore-fest. If the viewer sees the film as strictly a
blood bath of shocks it actually lends itself to viewer apathy since the
film can be easily dismissed as a bloody serial killer flick in much the
same way Pitt's character dismisses John Doe as "just" a lunatic. The viewer
ends up waiting for the next shock instead of looking deeper.I don't know if Fincher actually meant for this to occur or if it just
happened as circumstance but it is interesting to see how apathy builds in
ourselves esp. when it comes to repeated scenes of violence.Freedman's character is used effectively in bringing the viewer back (as
well as Pitt's character)to see the "big picture" so we don't get lost in
just the gore. In fact he is the stabilizing force in the movie. It is also
interesting to note that Freedman's character himself is the one fighting
apathy and in the end loses out to it.All in all a very good movie that at it's least gives some great and
groundbreaking visualizes and manages to put some meaning in as well. Very
few films by Hollywood of late have been able to do one thing effectively
and Fincher has done both well although understated themes are probably lost
on 95% of the viewing public which is why we are getting so many romantic
comedies and beat em up flicks instead of intelligent films open to
commentary and interpretation.Also the newest release of Seven on DVD is superb and make sure you buy it
over the earlier flipper release.

******
5 March 2001
9

Se7en is my number 19 movie. It is a great thriller with a great story and
great performances. I had to watch this movie three times until I started
liking it. But today I love it. It is about a guy that kills seven persons
according to the deadly sins. I do not like Brad Pitt that much, Morgan
Freeman is quite good, Kevin Spacey too, and Gwyneth Paltrow is OK. But this
movie was ( sorry, IS ) just great.Good points : characters, actors, acting, directing, story, and the way that
it is told,  ending, style, score, Bad points : cannot think of anything, but it could have been
betterAll in all, I rate this movie 9.7/10 and recommend it to everyone who has
not seen it yet. It is GREAT!!!CU; Rinho. 


******
3 March 2001
10

Hey, I won't give a ten to very many movies, but this is just a great
movie.
The quality of acting is great, the storyline superb, and everything down
to the tiny details like the opening credits match perfectly with the
mysterious, creepy feel of this film.  It has both Hollywood star power and
small studio care in the making and editing.  And what an ending!  If this
movie were put out today with the awards these actors have won and the
names
they've made for themselves it would reign for months in theatres and get a
few Academy nods.  A suspense thriller for all time.

******
3 March 2001
10

For the last 6 years since I've first watched Se7en -besides seeing it
again
and again- it has been and is still my favorite movie! It's dark, it's
disturbing, it's nauseating; but these very characteristics of Se7en are
what makes it superior to any movie with a good idea but unable to make it
sound. Brilliant story -that you do not expect from a thriller-, and an
atmosphere that makes it a masterpiece, thanx to Mr. Fincher!  The library
scene with the parallel editing and "Air" is just another masterpiece
alone
(as well as the beginning credits sequence).You may be amazed at the disturbing intensity, or may loathe it; but will
not be indifferent..

******
2 March 2001
10

Six years after seeing the film, "Se7en" is considered, in my opinion, the
best creation of one brilliant director: David Fincher. Starting his career
with George Lucas in "The Return of the Jedi" as camera assistant, now he's
one of the most acclaimed film directors in the world.His first worldwide known production was "Alien3", a sequel of the famous
alien saga, the worst of all the saga, however. Then, in 1995, "Se7en" was
out, and became a total success.The film is a creepy, thriller production with a crew full of stars: Brad
Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Palthrow and the awesome 72nd Academy Award
Winner Kevin Spacey (as leading role in AMERICAN BEAUTY). And the film was
also an innovation in using weird and strange openings. This style was
followed by several films like "Mimic", "Arlington Road", "Spawn", "Fight
Club", etc.Focusing on the film, "Se7en" introduces us Detectives David Mills (Brad
Pitt) and William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) that are investigating several
crimes which at first glance with no connection between them. After a deep
search, they will find that only one man is behind all the murderers and
with a philosophy: the seven capital sins.With this plot, the film seems to be as other productions of the genre, but
it's not. There are several points of "Se7en" that should be
mentioned:- Brilliant atmosphere, one of the most weird and strange sets and places
never seen in a film. The fat man's apartment is incredibly created. There
are lots of details, like in the sloth victim's house, with hundreds of that
fraganced pine trees (you know, that things for the cars) hanging from the
ceiling to cover the smell of the body.- Excellent performance of the acting crew: every character is well
performed by its respective actor/actress. Special mention to Brad
Pitt.The following films of Fincher ("The Game", "Fight Club", etc.) carry
on
the style created in "Se7en". I must say that all the thrillers produced
after "Se7en" are just a rough copy of Fincher's masterpiece: they have just
copied the atmosphere of the film but with no success. "Se7en" is the best
one nowadays, no matter the budget, no matter the crew.David Fincher makes the difference. "Se7en" is an example, a brilliant
masterpiece. WORTH LOOK!!!!!!! 10/10One thing that I still think about is: why didn't "Se7en" win any Academy
Awards Oscar in 1995? I found it unfair and still think
so.

******
26 February 2001
10

The story of a murderer committing his crimes to preach to the world is a
great idea for a movie, and it was carried out very well.  The story of a
retiring cop teamed with his new replacement is a story that has been
recycled over and over.  But it was done extremely well in Seven.  This
movie is full of suspense.  Both Pitt and Freeman give wonderful,
believable
performances.  The movie is somewhat gruesome, but if you can stomach some
violence, it is well worth watching.

******
10 February 2001
10

When I left the theater after this one, I felt as though a different
person was walking out than had walked in. I truly felt profoundly
altered. Something of myself died in that theater. That kind of
impact is not only amazing in and of itself, but is the mark of a
special kind of film. Fincher is a genius. 

******
5 February 2001
10

My friends think I'm insane, but I rate this one higher than Silence of the
Lambs (the movie Se7en is most compared with). It's much darker and has a
lot more atmosphere. Don't get me wrong, Silence...  was a fantastic movie,
but Se7en is in my opinion the best serial killer film
ever!Everybody has seen the cliche of a retiring officer who's working in a
rookie a thousand times (and more) and that's probably the only flaw this
masterpiece has. It's a dark (and rainy!) look at the seven deadly sins
which have become just another piece of our lives and there are no innocent
souls on this planet left (according to John Doe). Everybody is guilty!The movie takes you with one surprise after another to the ending. The
ending is the best part of the film (I've seen enough films to know this is
does not happen often), when the detectives and their killer find the two
other victims.Special nods towards the cinematography (which is excellent) and the
producers decision to not show the name of the actor playing the 'bad guy'
in the opening credits.This film is a must see for everybody who wants to see... No, just for
everybody!

******
4 February 2001
10

I remember when me and my friend were going to see Showgirls one day, and at
the last minute we decided to see this movie instead.  All I can say is we
definately made the right choice, this movie is nothing short of stunning. 
David Fincher and Brad and Morgan have weaved a tapestry out of suspense and
surprise.  This movie was David Fincher's Pennance for Alien 3, this movie
had everything that one did not, it had a brilliant script, and a numbing
ending. For those of you who haven't seen this movie yet, be prepared to be
knocked off your seat by the ending.  Be prepared to see evil in the killer
John Doe, be prepared to look into Morgan Freemans haunted eyes for 2 hours,
most of all be prepared to be dazzled. This is the best serial killer movie
besides Silence of the Lambs.  This one like Lambs will be remembered as a
classic.

******
21 January 2001
10

I must admit that when this film came out, I totally ignored it, probably
because I was only 9 nears old and I didn't care much for movies when back
then.  Now, after reading several reviews, I finally decided to take a
chance with it.The story is set from what I understand is supposed to be New York City.  It
is always dark and it is always raining.  Detective William Somerset(Morgan
Freeman) is an elderly, burned out homicide detective who is about to
retire.  Detective David Mills(Brad Pitt) is the brash, young detective who
is set to replace Somerset at the end of the week.  But before Somerset can
retire, he must tackle one last important case.  The two detectives arrive
at the house of a obese man who was found with his face in a bowl of
spaghetti. The second victim they find, a defense attorney, was forced to
cut off a pound of his flesh. As further investigation into the murders
continues, they soon learn that they were the first and second in a series
of ritualistic killings in which the victims will be killed in accordance
with the Seven Deadly Sins: Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Lust, Pride, Wrath and
Envy. I won't go any further than that.  Kevin Spacey, of American Beauty fame, plays John Doe with perfection.  I
didn't even know who he was until I saw this film.  His role as John Doe is
probably one of the creepiest I have ever seen.  Morgan Freeman and Brad
Pitt play their roles to perfection also.  Seven's ending really surprised
me because it was very unexpected and there were no clues to hint it. I also like this film because it was directed by David Fincher.  I liked
because he succeeds in always creating dark and suspenseful atmospheres in
his films like Alien 3, Fight Club, and The Game.Now I'm a very big fan of serial killer films.  I've seen most of the major
ones The Silence of the Lambs, The Bone Collector, and this film. **Spoilers**  There is one something that I want to make very clear. 
Resurrection, another serial killer film starring Christopher Lambert is not
a Seven rip-off.  Although the two films do share the same qualities, they
are two totally different films.Now that is cleared up Seven a very chilling film and has a terrifying
ending.9/10

******
4 January 2001
10

This movie's title sequence alone has changed the film and television
mediums forever. Even if you aren't a film buff, you will immediately
recognize this after seeing this beautifully creepy, acid-washed and
frantic
collage of images. Fincher's stylistic use of framing, lighting, and
choice
of cinematographer creates a mood that sinks like a brick to the pit of
your
stomach.If I were to choose a genre movie that could definetley top Johnathan
Demme's "The Silence of the Lambs", this would be the one.  Brad Pitt,
Morgan Freeman and Gwenyth Paltrow are dead-on portraying each of their
characters; respectively: a detective who has requested a transfer to the
non-specific city's seedier side, a veteran detective who is set to retire
in seven days, and a wife who is entirely reluctant about moving to this
inner-city.  The events which unfold, wrap these characters into a series
of
situations where no viewer will guess the horrifying ending until it is
fully set in motion.Spacey alone deserves a separate paragraph.  If you thought Hannibal was
devious and witty (and he is), check out Mr. Spacey as John Doe.  His
subtle
portrayal is in contrast to Mr. Hopkin's over-the-top, almost campy
Hannibal
Lector.  Kevin Spacey sets the "creep-factor" to 10 in his vision of a
truly
sadistic serial killer.Do yourself a favor, even if you aren't a noir or horror fan.  See this
movie, because there are a myriad of reasons to appreciate what Fincher
has
created.  If you think you won't get into the story because this, at first
glance, appears to be a glorified horror movie, you will be cheating
yourself out an incredible film experience.

******
21 December 2000
9

The most intelligent, original, emotional, intense, disturbing, incredible
and important piece of film made in the 90's. David Fincher is surely the
most impressive director of this decade and should really be given the
credit his talent deserves. If you want to know how to direct a movie that
will leave an impression for life on the individual and in the history of
cinema then you will want to watch SE7EN.

******
26 October 2000
8

Whenever I tell people that one of my favorite movies is Seven I usually
get
a couple of weird looks and stares.  This movie was put together very
well,
with very good actors portraying each of their character to a perfection.
Even for the small part of the large picture that Kevin Spacey plays, he
plays it well.  This movie is very dark, but a good movie none-the-less.
If
you can stand the gore, then you will love the plot and
mystery.

******
15 October 2000
10

This is a gritty mind-bending thiller.  It is by far my favorite Brad Pitt
movie.  The movie is about a killer who uses the seven deadly sins as a
method to kill, and the two cops (played by Pitt and Freeman) who are
destined to meet up with him.  All of them involve turning the sin against
the sinner, and ALL of the murders are pretty gruesome.A word to the wise: DO NOT let your kids see this movie.  It is without a
doubt one of the most gruesome movies I have EVER seen.  But, the
gruesomeness of the murders just adds to the movie.  The terrific acting of
Brad Pitt and Moran Freeman (one of my favorite actors) just adds to the
overall feel.  Kevin Spacey's much talked about roll is small, but VERY good
and VERY important to understand the movie.Overall, this movie is just about the best horror/suspense movie I have
seen.

******
9 October 2000
10

Brad Pitt in the performance of his career is excellent as a detective
teamed with Morgan Freeman, both men at opposite ends of there lives. This
is a chilling and graphic thriller with as much style as substance. The
killer, when revealed is very surprising, though you have probably seen it.
David Fincher brings gritty realism to the tale of an intelligent maniac
basing horrific killings on the seven deadly sins. A smart screenplay and
surprising in-sight on humanity and our downward spiral makes for a
thoroughly involving and bleak motion picture. You can't find a film like
it.

******
7 October 2000
10

I have seen my fair share of serial killer movies.  And of the ones I've
seen, none of them hold a candle to The Silence of the Lambs.... Except
Seven (or Se7en). We all know that Lambs is the greatest of all killer
movies, and nothing can top it, ever.  But Seven is most defiantly worthy
of
a second spot.  I love the plot, the acting (who doesn't love Morgan
Freeman?), and not to mention David Fincher's great directing.  I'm not a
big fan of Brad Pitt, but he's better in this movie than most movies I've
seen him in.While this movie really isn't for the faint at heart, it is in no way a
gory
movie.  Fincher avoids many grotesque images by showing the facial
reactions
of the actors looking at the serial killer's work.And the acting, oh the acting.  (SPOILING STARTING!) Keven Spacey is soooo
creepy as John Doe.  Not Hannibal creepy, but creepy none the less.  Morgan
Freeman shines above them all, being the great man that he is.  Many famous
actors are in this movie with little parts.  Richard Roundtree (yes, Shaft)
is in this, but only for a second or two.  Gwyneth Paltrow is in this
movie,
but I can't stand her.  She is such a little bitch (excuse my language, but
she is).  I almost laughed at the very end (those of you who have seen the
movie know what I'm talkin about).  But despite the fact I don't like her,
she does a good job in his movie.The thing I love about the plot is it is so untraditional. Most serial
killer movies have the killer turn out to be a best friend of the good guy
or even a fellow detective.  Not this movie.  Also, I love the realism.
Like I said before, this is no Silence of the Lambs, not even in the
realism
department.  But it's still sooo good anyway.Some people might not like this movie and consider it to be a traditional
Hollywood Scream movie, but give it a chance.  This is a great find.

******
29 August 2000
10

i have to tip my hat to david fincher, a director with an eye for making a
"movie."  this film creates a new feeling inside of you. you're not sure
if
you want to take side with the cops or follow in the "grey path" of the
killer.  it warps your mind into a spot where you start questioning your
own
morals...
a piece that everyone should see.

******
27 August 2000
8

This is one of the best thrillers I've seen and I've seen quite a few. You
might say I'm an actual serial killer freak. This one sure is one of the
best, it ranks right up there with other thrillers like Scream, The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre, The Blair Witch Project, Copycat, Arlington Road and
Fight Club (if you miss Silence of the Lambs, well I can't remember that
film so good so I just left it out). The only film that is actually relevant
here, because of the serial killer content is of course Copycat. I wouldn't
say these two films are even (considering quality), hell no Se7en is better,
but hey I must mention Copycat here, because that film featuring Sigourney
Weaver was released in 1995 also and I feel it has been neglected or maybe
just overlooked by some due to the big success Se7en was. If you like Se7en
you'll like Copycat, because it is about a killer, who well copy's famous
serial killers.Now finally on to the film in question. I feel like there is nothing much to
be said about this film that already someone said or has written on this
page. Still I must comment on it. For one thing I must do so, because this
film features some of the best actors there are today and it also is
original. First the actors, we have of course heart throb Brad Pitt as you
might call him, well I call him one of the best actors of our time. He has
done some really good films and by that I don't mean his older ones like
Legends of the Fall or A River runs through it, no I mean this one, Fight
Club (very good, very underrated) and maybe Thelma & Louise. In this film he
delivers a good performance nothing too fancy but good. Especially in the
ending I must say, for that part was his hardest. Good acting but not Oscar
stuff. Then of course there is Morgan Freeman (see The Shawshank Redemption,
Kiss the Girls and Outbreak), who is good too, as most of the time, when
there is a job to be done he does it. And now for the best one yet, Kevin
Spacey (whose best films are Outbreak, The Usual Suspects, A Time to Kill,
The Negotiator, American Beauty and maybe The Ref), who is not that much on
 screen but if he is, damn. What a great actor. You might not think this
when watching the film the first time except maybe at the very end. But if
you watch the film a second time and have remembered the ending (you are
probably asking yourselves if can you forget it, well I've done so once but
now I've seen it three times and I'll never forget I think) you have to
listen closely to the conversation in the car. The way Spacey talks and what
he says, it makes so much more sense' when you know the ending. He is just
so confident and already teasing men who don't think he is superior when he
knows he is, for he has all the aces right up his sleeve. This brings me
right up to the originality of this film actually. It is not only that the
films story is very original, because never have I seen somebody kill people
in connection with the 7 deadly sins. It is also original in the way they
are carried out and that is what makes this film really special. The
killings are not only brutal, but they are well prepared, so we are dealing
with a genius of a madman, something that becomes very clear at the end and
not until then, maybe. I think that you actually have to like this movie you
must like it unless maybe it is too gory for you. If it isn't you'll like
it, trust me.8 out of 10

******
2 August 2000
10

MIGHT INCLUDE SPOILERSSe7en is one of the scariest and greatest films of all time. Brad Pitt gives
one of his best performances. Se7en is worth seeing. The writer, Andrew
Kevin Walker should get more credit for an amazing story line. It actually
made me remember the seven deadly sins - Greed, Gluttony, Wrath, Pride,
Lust, Envy, and sloth. David Fincher - who is an amazing director and thumbs
up for the Madonna music videos helps a great cast and creates a noir type
world that keeps you wondering.What's in the box at the end? I'm glad Fincher did not show you the real
terror that was in there. Pitt and Freeman are policemen that become
involved with a psychopaths mad killings. As the story goes - you see people
die because of the deadly sins they have followed. Very elaborate
theming.Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, and Gwyneth Paltrow give great
performances that are worthy to see! 10/10

******
9 July 2000
10

David Fincher lends his directing skills to help make Andrew Kevin
Walker's
screenplay into one of the greatest serial killer movies ever made.  This
movie has everything.  A cast of easily likeable characters.  A demented
but
creative nemesis.  A dreary setting.  Witty dialogue.  An original plot.
One of the best endings in cinema history.  The film focuses on Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt's characters, William Somerset and David Mills, who
are both police detectives.  Somerset is desperate to leave his job and
Mills is excited to get in.  They make a great team when it comes to
finding
an elusive serial killer who preys on people using the seven deadly sins
as
his preaching tools.  Gwyneth Paltrow gives a terrific performance as
Mill's
wife Tracy.  A superb acting job is done by the killer.  I won't mention
the
actor's name in case you haven't seen the movie yet.  This isn't one of
those
movies that you can guess the next scene before it comes.  "Seven" is
packed
with surprises.  This is a good movie for anyone with a strong stomach
that
enjoys fine acting and a great storyline.  I recommend watching "Seven" at
night with no interruptions.  I wouldn't recommend eating during the film.


******
2 July 2000
9
We plummet the depths of depravity here. Arrogance never got such a
cinematic comeuppance (not to mention gluttony, pride, greed and the
rest of the seven deadly sins), nor was innocence ever made such an
alien as in this masterpiece of monstrous intent. Morgan Freeman stars
as William Somerset, a wise and modest big city homicide detective
ready to retire who finds himself partnered with David Mills, an
arrogant young detective effortlessly depicted by Brad Pitt. As they
try to find the killer there develops between them a nice chemistry
that helps to make this an engrossing movie. Kevin Spacey arrives after
a bit as 'John Doe,' a 20th century version of a medieval scribe
obsessed with sin morphed into a monster from hell. He sees himself as
the personal judge, executioner and torturer extraordinaire of a
vengeful god gone amuck.Momma, lock the doors and bar the windows. Don't let this video into
your home. You'll watch it, every last minute, and your kids will watch
it, several times, their eyes between their fingers, and the end result
will be a cynicism about humanity so deep that it'll take the blood of
the lamb to wash it clean.Well, that, or the realization that this is just Hollywood up to its
old tricks. After all it's only a movie-or is there something more to
this extraordinary commercialization of evil? One of the penetrating
things about Seven is the implication that, through the Christian
concept of sin and by our very nature, we ourselves create the serial
killer and give him a justification to turn upon us and do his wretched
deeds. The ending slyly suggests the triumph of evil; and indeed this
cagey movie would be depressing beyond redemption were it not for the
three things: One, the modest wisdom projected by Morgan Freeman; two,
the essential innocence of Brad Pitt's character; and three, the fact
that the horrible deeds are the work of only one man. Whether he is
just an insane 'nut-bag' as Pitt's character exclaims, or part of our
nature as the film implies, is an interesting question.Serial killer film makers of the future will try to top this one, but I
doubt if it will happen any time soon. This is already a classic.
Incidentally, I do wonder about these guys (Walker and Fincher) who lie
awake nights dreaming up this stuff. I hope they're only doing it for
the money.By the way, perfect font for the credits.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut
to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it
at Amazon!)

******
28 June 2000
10

This is by far one of the best movies ever made.  If nothing else, see it
for Kevin Spacey's brief role.  The car scene with Spacey, Pitt and
Freeman
is one of the best written scenes I've ever had the pleasure to see.  And
as
far as I'm concerned, a lot of people really over exaggerate how violent
this movie is.  Or maybe I'm just completely desensitized to this kind of
thing.  Only thing that really bothered me about this movie was the Sloth
guy.  That was pretty nasty.See it.

******
27 June 2000
10

Se7en is one movie you will never forget. Morgan Freeman as always has made
yet another masterpeice just like Kiss The Girls, Outbreak, and The
Shawshank Redemption.  Brad Pitt was amazing in this movie just like Legends
of the Falls. The Seven deadly sins which are gluttony, greed, sloth, envy,
wrath, pride, lust. Seven Deadly Sins.  Seven Ways To Die.

******
18 June 2000
9

After the unfortunate debacle with Alien3 (they couldn't even get the title
right since a lot of viewers thought it was Alien Cubed..but never mind!),
David Fincher fights back with a superbly crafted murder/mystery which goes
beyond the norm (and others would add, the pail) for police crime movies.Not a particularly complex story - all we have is a typical Mr Average Man
who has finally had enough of present day society's steep decline
into...well, as the title almost suggests....the Seven Deadly Sins.His grisly murders represent each Sin and only a soon-to-be-retired police
detective who "...can't get involved..." (skillfully played by Morgan
Freeman) and his young upstart sidekick (Brad Pitt) manage to unravel the
case, but at huge personal cost to both.Its difficult to know where to start when praising such a brilliant film.
But to begin with some of Fincher's old Alien3 directing habits are carried
into this film. Most of the story is set in miserable, dank, wet and gloomy
places - but this isn't a complaint but only adds to the foreboding that
awaits us. You feel as if you're swimming in a pool
of slime trying to keep afloat as Fincher moves from one scene to another,
never letting the viewer, or indeed the main characters time to take a
breath.Fortunately Fincher doesn't go over the top showing us every murder in
explicit detail. He knows we are intelligent enough to work out in our own
fetid imaginations what the camera doesn't allow us to see. But having said
that, the corpses that we do see would make even Dirty Harry choke!Editing & lighting also go hand in hand with the cinematography, so too does
the splatter-punk music score that surrounds the start & finish of the film.
In fact its like a conspiracy against the audience - all the unit directors
of the film crew (art, sound,2nd unit, editing, score etc) have ganged up
with Fincher to give the viewer a real hard time - a feeling of truly being
out there with Freeman & Pitt.Morgan Freeman is, as always, a pleasure to watch. He seems to have hit all
the right moves these last few years, especially in the underrated Shawshank
Redemption. His character is very slow, methodical, patient...all those
things his partner, Brad Pitt, lacks so glaringly,Pitt is perfect for the young brash detective. The two cops remind me of
reading a book - Freeman plays the cop page by page by page never wanting to
cut a corner or skip a detail; while Pitt plays his character chapter by
chapter, ever moving forward, not having the patience to look at the minute
details on each page...and boy does he get the Early Morning Wakeup Call at
the end of the film!!!!But to my mind, Kevin Spacey, who plays Jon Doe, is the real king player
here. Critically acclaimed in The Usual Suspects, LA Confidential &
Glengarry Glen Ross), Spacey pulls off yet another masterclass act here.He is not a madman or psychopath (as Brad Pitt feels he is) even though his
crimes would make you think otherwise. Instead he is just a well-educated
citizen who has simply had enough of seeing society fall apart outside his
front door, and the police & the courts are seen as being impotent to do
anything about it.Spacey knows what Fincher wants from his character and plays it with relish;
similar to John Malkovich's Mitch Leary character in Clint Eastwood's In the
Line of Fire.This isn't a glamour film that will make you glow & smile when you leave the
theatre. This film wants to crush you with the sordid reality of what is
actually happening to us all out there - a film that tells it as it is, and
not as Hollywood wants us to view the world from their glittering
perspective.Se7en is a film where other detective films should be judged. It's
unforgiving & relentless but a visual masterpiece for all that...and as for
the ending....well.....*****/*****


******
13 June 2000
8

This is a film that stays with you long after the credits have finished. It
is incredibly dark and twisted. It provides an intriguing passage into the
human mind and human behavior. Fincher's direction is good. He chooses dark,
wet, and dim locations to spin this grotesque tale of death. The story is
good in that it tells it like it is, this is no fairy tale. The performances
are, for the most part, pretty good. The best performance is given by Kevin
Spacey. Morgan Freeman is terrific as always. Brad Pitt is good but he could
be better. This film has the greatest climax I have seen form any motion
picture, it is incredibly intense. If you haven't seen this then you simply
must, but it is not for the faint hearted.

******
26 May 2000
10

Let me get something off my chest straightaway. The Silence of the Lambs
doesn't hold a candle to this one. And the fact that SOTL was awarded by
the
Academy, angers me beyond belief. Se7en has been criticised for being too
morbid, gross and dark. Which it is - and it should be, it deals with
serial
killing, for Pete's sake!What happens at the end of Silence of the Lambs? The killer utters a
snappy
one-liner ("I'm having an old friend for dinner") and the audience kill
themselves laughing... Yeah, right, we have just witnessed humanity at its
cruelest and most debased and we laugh. We certainly don't think. You
won't
laugh after seeing Se7en - and you shouldn't. You WILL be depressed - and
you should be. You WILL question society's morality (or lack thereof) -
and
you should. Most of all, you will recognise your own apathy.Se7en is the first and only (fictional)serial killer movie that treats its
subject with the respect it deserves. And by subject I'm not referring to
the killer (John Doe), but the devastation he leaves in his wake and
society's complicity. Yes, it is not only in terms of the seven deadly
sins
that this is relevant, but also in the eighth - APATHY, which is society's
sin. And John Doe is its physical manifestation.POSSIBLE SPOILERS!! POSSIBLE SPOILERS!!Apathy is what allowed John Doe to commit his atrocious crimes in the
first
place. A man is tortured for a year and no-one misses him, his landlord
doesn't give a hoot because his rent is paid on time. John Doe goes in and
out of offices and apartments he's not supposed to be in, but no-one
cares.
The police sell information without a second thought to the possible
consequences. Everyone brings packages and suitcases into a whore house,
so
who cares what the contents might be used for. And that is why these
things
happen in real life, why women are taught to yell "FIRE!" and not "HELP!"
when they are being attacked. Because everybody turns a blind eye.To quote John Doe (regretfully!!): "Wanting people to listen, you can't
just
tap them on the shoulder anymore. You have to hit them with a
sledgehammer".
And that is exactly what Se7en does. We can't afford to ignore its
message.This is not a movie to be enjoyed, rather it has to be experienced. So be
prepared for that sledgehammer!10/10 

******
18 May 2000
10

I saw Se7en at the theater and was glued to the screen the entire time.
Maybe it was the dark and dreary atmosphere combined with great classical
and jazz music. Maybe it was the performances, namely those given by
Freeman
and Spacey. Or perhaps it was just the gruesome subject matter and
satisfying ending. Whatever it was, this film takes hold and doesn't let
go,
not even after you've left theater.

******
11 May 2000
10

There is only a few words I can say because I was so stunned at the whole
movie, it's plot, it's audience build-up of anxiety and especially the
ending were amazingly produced.A Classic and one for the collection!

******
8 May 2000
8

A movie as dark, disturbing and heavily wrought with despair as "Se7en" can
hardly be called entertainment.  This is a motion-picture statement.  And
not an encouraging one.  But a statement all the same.Not to say that it's a bad movie.  Quite the opposite.In a tale where a retiring police detective (Freeman) takes one last case
along with his replacement (Pitt), only to find that their investigation
leads them down through a very First Testament eye-for-an-eye lesson in the
seven deadly sins, you cannot expect a merry romp down the yellow brick
road.As the victims have all been felled by such vices as gluttony, vanity,
sloth, sex and such, Freeman and Pitt slowly realize that they are dealing
not only with a sicko but one who means to follow his lesson on to the
bitter end.And that's it.  I won't tell another bit of the plot; this is the kind of
movie that has to be witnessed first-hand.  I'll be the first to admit that
it's definitely not a movie for anybody.  Certainly most people will be
turned off almost immediately by the gore and downbeat intensity of the
whole situation.  As Freeman so lucidly observes, "This isn't going to have
a happy ending." - well, how could it?Freeman is, of course, a sound center to the film and without him as a
grounding wire, the whole film would have suffered through its grunge and
blood and rainy days and nights.  Much has been said of Pitt's ineffectual
stance in his role, but I think that's the whole point: he's the common man
who just sees this killer as another wacko to lock up.  His eventual
transformation is almost un-noticeable as he turns from a deadened,
I've-seen-it-all type into someone who can't quite believe that such debased
evil actually exists until.. well, that would be telling; suffice it to say
that it's gradual and sudden all at once - and makes perfect sense, in
context.Gwyneth Paltrow plays Pitt's wife about as well as can be expected under the
circumstances.  R. Lee Ermey plays a more sedate version of the drill
sergeant he made so vivid in "Full Metal Jacket".  And as for John Doe...
it's a credit to his performance that he makes himself so eerily believable
as someone who believes this is the only way to make people listen to what
he has to say.  And, in some sick way, he may be right.But the people aren't the stars here, and neither is Fincher's dark,
foreboding direction - it's the story and where it leads to, it's the talks
you'll have afterwards about what happens at the end, it's about sin and
death and what really has to be done to make some people aware of what sin
is around them and how dead we've all become towards it.  Maybe "Se7en" is
more about how we react to the eventual lesson taught and how it's presented
than the actors, the gore and the literary quotes.If you can stomach the gore and your heart can take some pretty wrenching
scenes, this may be a movie for you to watch, think about and, possibly,
learn from.  I watched it and, myself, learned a pretty important lesson. 
Of course, every movie teaches its own different lesson to different people.
 See "Se7en" yourself and draw your own conclusion.Eight stars for "Se7en".  Powerful: yes.  Disturbing: definitely. 
Unforgettable: absolutely.

******
27 April 2000
10

I have found in this film, a masterpiece of David Fincher...it is really
wonderful!!!! The way the plot unfolds is such perfect!!!! It surprised me
in every possible ways. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt, have had really
spectacular performances. And so did Kevin Spacey. To watch it infinite
number of times!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

******
27 April 2000
9

se7en is creepy. no doubt.in the hands of others, it may have been a
schlocky "silence of the lambs" serial killer movie, but the performances
and direction are given such gravity that it really gets under your skin
and
is, at times almost too much too bear. it is easy to dismiss pitt's
performance as average as i did (admittedly, i'm not a big fan) but
watching
it a third time after years between my quickly repeated first and second
viewings, i found a cleverness in his character in that , as a rookie
detective he is cocky and even irritating, but still just trying to do his
job. by the end, we sympathise with him.
with freeman at his side and under the VERY assured direction of david
fincher, se7en is an absolute winner; the most intelligent, darkest AND
best
thriller i've ever seen. as a bonus, we also get two of the most imitated
credit sequences in cinema history. genius.

******
21 April 2000
10

Rarely one encounters a movie with so much power.  Morgan Freeman, Brad
Pitt, and Kevin Spacey do some of their best work here, each showing us
the
various aspects of the dark side of human nature.  Spacey, in particular,
is
spectacular in his portrayal of the man who questions our contemporary
society's flaws.  The film is visually awesome, full of striking images
that
complement a well-written, intelligent, and stirring script which goes
beyond the surface and moves you to wonder about what is happening to
us.

******
13 April 2000
8

This is without doubt one of the most stylish, yet simply frightening films
to be made in a long time. Major credit for this film must be given to David
Fincher, this film owes its success as much to his style and direction as it
does anything else. This film has it all: a very good cast, great style, a
good plot with some great twists, and a good dose of gore for flavour.
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are well cast as the leads, Freeman delivering
yet another polished performance as the battle hardened mentor, and Pitt
showing promise as the brash young detective. Undoubtedly a highlight for me
was the chilling performance of Kevin Spacey, showing his immense talent in
a brilliant cameo as John Doe, a villain on par with Hopkin's Hannibal
Lecter. A certain Ms Paltrow gives a solid performance as Pitt's beautiful
young wife, but Spacey set the tone. The dark tones of most scenes are
perfect in setting the mood of the film, and are used well by Fincher. A
very good plot and screenplay, coupled with an original idea, combine with
the cast and style to create a most unforgettable movie, and one of the most
intense cinematic experiences in recent memory. 8 out of
10.

******
31 March 2000
8

SevenDIRECTION 90%
Very good and scary.ACTING 85%
Could have been more emotionally during the movie, but achieved this in the
ending somewhat.EDITING/SPECIAL EFFECTS 92%
If you like looking at dead decapitate bodies, your birthday has come
early!PLOT 85%
A serial killer is on the loose with the mind to teach people a lesson about
the seven deadly sins. But some lessons are hard to learn if you make things
too personal! STRONG WORDS AND VIOLENCE ETC 96%
The scenes may make you feel sick and the language doesn't help
either.MUSIC 45%
Will your ears notice this as your eyes are in gore heaven?SOUND  67%
Natural and scary perhaps?HOOKABILITY 86%
Depends upon if you can handle the case of investigating dead
bodies.LASTABILITY 93%
The urge to get to the bottom of this case is very strong, but don't get
yourself too involved personally.OVERALL 89%
A great crime thriller, but not for the faint hearted!

******
26 February 2000
10

Watching Seven is intense. You watch the movie on the edge of your seat all
of the time. It's amazing how this movie gets your attention from the first
minute. The plot of this movie is excellent. A serialkiller who kills
according to the seven sins. Newcomer Mills(Brad Pitt) and Agent
Somerset(Morgan Freeman) investigate these crimes. But these crimes are
different than every other crime they (and everyone else) ever saw. They are
so hideous and horrible.. A man who has been lying in his appartement for a
year, strapped to his bed, only to have photo's taken of him each week or
so, showing the process of decomposition. Terrifying.Seven is probably the most suspensefull thriller i ever saw. David Fincher
keeps you interested all the time. And you keep wondering what will happen
next. It's not your typical detective crime story. It's actually a very,
very scary movie. I won't write too much about the actual storyline, and especially not about
the ending, which is without a doubt a very awesome one. It leaves you with
a feeling that you just witnessed something truly special.A classic in it's sort. 10 out of 10.

******
22 February 2000
9
This is the birth of a great director . ALIEN3 was a big production that
didn't allow Fincher to fully express his talent .
FIGHT
CLUB was an anarchist movie with a budget of 90 million dollars , which
is
already a paradox difficult to handle. THE GAME was purely a mistake that
shouldn't have happened . SEVEN remains Fincher 's best work , and
probably
will remain as such.
This is a work of genius .With no compromise, Fincher creates an organic
thing on the screen.Like all great movies , SEVEN has a life of its
own.Morgan Freeman is as majestic as ever, in the role of the old cop with
the
desperate sense of fatality. Kevin Spacey could play the role of fish in
an
aquarium and still turn it to something beyond belief , as he does here.
Brad Pitt manages not to be as annoying as he usually is .This will surely be remembered  as a 90's classic .


******
29 January 2000
10

"Se7en IS superior to Silence of the Lambs" as the quote on the back of the
home version states.  What makes this movie great is it's perfection.  Try,
just try to find one plot hole or one realistic flaw.  The script was
brilliantly written.  Ebert said that everything about this film was
excellent except the ending. He wanted to see Mills kill Somerset!  That
would eradicate the whole idea of the villain winning.  John Doe came out
flawless in the film.  Everything he said and did was justified by himself.
He had obviously studied human behavior, and having been involved with the
murders for at least a year, he knew exactly what to do to make this
perfect.  He calculated the first five murders and , I assume, to his
advantage Mills was ignorant enough to give his name to that "reporter" on
the stairs.  Doe got Mill's identity and quickly moved in to commit the
sixth murder and eventually he introduced the seventh.  I know that because
of the film's plot and characters that the ending was perfect.  Absolutely
perfect.  What more can you ask?
My bone to pick is with the assumption that The Silence of the Lambs was
better than Se7en.  How is this true?  Don't be fooled, just because
Anthony
Hopkins may be a better actor than Pitt or Freeman(which I don't agree
with,
what about Pitt in 12 Monkeys or Fight Club?!) does not make SotL a better
film.  Mills was pretty damn good in Se7en and what makes a film is
primarily the film itself i.e. the script and the direction.  Acting,
although must be strong, is a third priority.  Jodie Foster credited Se7en
as being "as perfect a film on the subject as can get."  The whole "ripped
face" gag in SotL was just unreal, interesting,  but unreal.  The end was
good but without a doubt, Se7en's ending was better.  The sequel "Hannibal"
will prove my opinion, especially since Foster won't come back.  Sequels
will always ruin the environment of  a movie like SotL.  Also, the killer
in
SotL was predictably grotesque, and the way he was caught was thrilling but
I'm not quite sure that the audience walked out of that one 1.Thinking
2.Curious 3.Utterly frightened.  Se7en's environment, directing, ending,
and
it's script was better than that of SotL.  Not to mention it grossed over
300 million dollars worldwide and became the best-selling video in '96.  In
the end you realize that great things will continue to be overshadowed by
mediocre things i.e. Titanic over L.A. Confidential, Shakespeare in Love
over Saving Private Ryan. Oh yeah, I almost forgot, you know that one
director that is considered the best of all time...oooh what was his
name...yeah thats right, Stanley Kubrick.  Yeah, he never won an Oscar, not
one.  Check out my "Fight Club" and my Austin Powers 2: The Spy Who Shagged
Me" reviews

******
29 January 2000
8

The performances are excellent, particularly Kevin Spacey. The script
explores deep issues while moving the film along at a steady pace.
Fincher's
direction is bleak and at times very frightening.This is the ultimate
serial
killer movie.

******
22 January 2000
10

    Sets the standard for crime genre films of the late
20th
early 21st century. Is to the present gen what Godfather
was
to the Boomer's. 

******
20 January 2000
9
To tell the you truth, the first time I saw Se7en I didn't like it much
better
than Silence of the Lambs Of which I dislike for its non-originality and
intense exaggeration and for those of you who have seen Se7en you know Its
totally original and thrilling until the last line of the movie, This
brilliant movie is staring Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman as the detectives
and (none other than the master of acting and talent) Kevin SpaceyIf what I've said doesn't make you just want to get up and go rent Se7en
then watch it for yourself. you've got nothing else to do anyways your
just
surfing the net.But I bet you anything, that you will be back at IMDB writing terrific
remarks about Se7en just as soon as you see it.PS. Get up and go rent Se7en now, if you don't John Doe might come looking
for you and kill you for sloth!!


******
9 January 2000
10

A very methodically written movie that keeps tightening the noose until a
finale that you don't see coming until the last minute but seems only
natural and unnatural. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play well together as
Detectives doing a dirty job in a dark world. Kevin Spacey is the perfect
evil little puke.

******
9 January 2000
10

Stylish, brilliantly made, yet intensely disturbing, the creeping evil of
Seven simply stuns. The stark, violent setting of an anonymous US city and
its fabulously under-lit haunts lets every frame ooze its distressing
decay.
Grim, cold, and incredibly powerful, you cannot afford to ignore this
masterpiece.

******
8 January 2000
10

Se7en , in my opinion is one of the best cop movies ever made if not THE
best. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman try to track down a vicious serial killer
who murders using the seven deadly sins.
A great storyline and fantastic ending( very un Hollywood!).
There has only been one movie that has had a better ending than this and
that is Monty Pythons Life of Brian. If you havent seen Se7en before you
Must watch it! 10 out of 10 

******
1 January 2000
9

This is the surprise thriller of 1995. They hardly ever comes any better
than this. Great story, terrific acting (Especially Morgan Freeman),
faultless direction. It's way more uncomfortable than movies that tries to
shock you with blood and gore. In this one we witness the effects of what
has already happened. We are not there at the killings (thank
God!).
This way it slowly creeps up on you to a much better effect than any visual
violence can achieve.
But it has a giveaway that keeps it from not being a 10. Gwyneth Paltrow,
who plays Brad Pitt's wife, isn't in the film very much. she only pops up
four or five times in the movie. The scenes are also quite short. What
usually happens with wives, girlfriends, sisters and son on who doesn't
appear much in the usual Hollywood-movie?  Right! They die. So does Gwyneth.
The only thing that differs from most films, is the way it's
done.
So what could have been a full 10 only becomes a 9 because of the formula
treatment of the cops wife. But besides that; Terrific!!

******
28 December 1999
9

Seven is a great dark thriller, and in my opinion will be the benchmark for
all serial killer movies to made. The film is very good, and the aftermath
of the killings is also great.
There is a killer killing people by the seven deadly sins. Greed, Glutony,
Wrath, etc. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play detectives trying to find out
who the killer is and why he is killing.
Kevin Spacey's performance towards the end of the film is very, very good
and would have been one of the best in the flick.
Andrew kevin Walker script is excellent great directing, great acting great
movie. Way better than other serial killer movies like The Bone
Collector.

******
9 December 1999
9

It was in Alien3, that director David Fincher first made his mark: while
the
script may have been flawed, the acting mundane(save the ever-reliable
Weaver) and the plot muddled, the film stayed afloat thanks to the fact
that
it simply oozed dark style.  With Se7en, however, Fincher gets an
opportunity to stamp his visual flair on a more-than-competent script, and
a
jaw-dropping cast(Freeman, Pitt, Spacey et al), and, predictably, an
utterly
compelling film results.For a serial-killer film, Se7en has surprisingly little on-screen blood
letting.  However the depiction of a nightmarish city and ample forensic
detail, together with taut acting and tense direction, means that it is at
times an almost unbearably grim suspenser.  Pitt delivers his lines with
twitching intensity, but is far more restrained than in his manic
performance in 12 Monkeys.  Freeman is marvellously understated as a
detective looking forward to retirement who is drawn into the grisly case
which Pitt initially undertakes.  Best of all, though, is Spacey, who
 > has a mammoth screen presence,
albeit only being present on-screen for a relatively short period.Overall Se7en is a relentlessly downbeat yet mightily impressive film.
Not
since The Silence of the Lambs has there been a psychological thriller
with
such an oppressive atmosphere and soaring energy as this.  But while Lambs
swept the Oscars in 1991(the only truly contemporary film to win the Best
Picture award during the 90s) the Academy only managed to nominate Se7en
for
one Oscar(that for editing, which is admittedly superb).  While Se7en is
not
quite as masterful as Lambs, it ought to have won at least a few more
nominations(how Freeman was left out of the Best Actor category, one would
never know).The only reservation I'd have about Se7en is than Fincher at times tends
to
overdo the depressing plot developments.  Certainly, the viewer can find
little refuge or comfort in the ending, which means that the easily upset
may want to steer clear; instead they might want to catch The Game, which
has all of Fincher's visual flair and intensity, minus the downbeat tone.
Otherwise Se7en comes highly recommended.9/10.

******
7 December 1999
10

David Fincher's last three movies have been so individually great and
unique, they all speak for their own in different categories. What he does
here is take a smart, clever, and grisly script by Andrew Kevin Walker, pull
down the shades and throw Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman in a cinematic game
that will stand with THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS as the greatest thriller of
the 90s.  Set in a city that is almost always gray and wet with rain, this movie does
have a depressing feel, but watching this film over and over again, I always
feel a bit giddy, as I know that Freeman's Det. Somerset isn't going to
retire so easily and that Pitt's rookie Det. Mills is going to get one heck
of a first case. They are great together from the start. Neither one has
much of a sense of humor, but it's funny how odd of a couple they are.
Somerset is patient, intelligent, and raises his voice as much as he reveals
a smile. Mills look like a young lion as he jumps into enthusiasm when he
works, caring more about action than about research. The thing (and flaw) about Fincher movies is that there is hardly any women
characters in them. Gwyneth Paltrow is very weak in her role as Mills' wife.
She is only used for the climax in which the film is going. But the movie is
such a distraction from that minor detail, it almost doesn't matter. The
best sequence, hands down, is when Mills chases John Doe in his apartment,
out of the window, into another building, onto a ledge, and into the murky
streets of the nameless city.One very smart move the movie has is not only revealing the character a good
half hour before the movie is over, but giving him a speaking part which
portrays him miles high over the usual cliched killers in cliched thrillers.
You'll find very new things to watch in this movie, like other Fincher
masterpieces THE GAME and FIGHT CLUB.If the kids in SCREAM wanted more creative psycho killers, they got one,
with murders like methodical and detailed puzzle pieces all coming to a
wicked conclusion that puts everything in a bad game of
jeopardy.

******
2 December 1999
10

Well, I have seen this film for the first time almost two years ago, and I
still think this is the movie with the biggest "amount" of tense that I
have
ever seen.
Scenario is great, very dark and pessimistic, great review of a world
today,
although sometimes to extreme. Morgan Freeman was true discovery to me; I
was astonished with this actor and his great performance.Brad Pitt was
also
excellent; he represents detectives of today; light on head and heavy on
hands (or at least on behavior).
David Fincher with this one and "The Game",I would dare to say, is on
footprints of some of the Hitchcock's best movies, and it would be very
interesting to see what is next.


******
2 December 1999
10

It seems to be the trend now to equate this movie to Silence of the Lambs,
but to me, this movie far surpasses that one. Not to say that Silence of
the
Lambs wasn't good, it was actually one of the best of its kind, and
Hannibal
Lecter might be the best serial killer ever. However, Seven blows that
movie
away and if not for The Usual Suspects, it would be the best
detective-thriller of the 90's.There are so many aspects to this movie worth mentioning, I couldn't fit
it into 1000 words. Yes, this movie may be considered too slow for the
action junkies of the world. Sorry, Arnie and Sly Stallone do not make an
appearance here. But for those who place a higher importance on acting,
directing, and storyline, this is the movie for you. Fincher deserves top
mention. This guy continues to amaze me with top notch films. Never saw
Alien3, as I don't like horror movies and don't care about the Alien
trilogy. But The Game is a very underrated thriller, you can't go wrong
with
Sean Penn and Michael Douglas.  And as far as Fight Club goes, well, words
cannot express how good that movie was, so I won't even try. But with
those
2 movies alone, as well as this one, Fincher proves he is one of the best
up
and coming directors in the business.We all know Brad Pitt is usually placed in movies merely for eye candy
for the female audience, but obviously Fincher has a knack for bringing
the
best out of Pitt. He's really not a terrible actor, and he was actually
pretty good in 12 Monkeys, but it is here and Fight Club where he does his
best work. He's no Morgan Freeman, and he is certainly eclipsed here by
Freeman, but Pitt manages to hold his own effectively. Paltrow is, well,
Paltrow here, pretty boring and monotone, just like most parts she plays.
But she is as important to the story as any of the others, and based on
that
she fits in well.As good as everyone was in this movie, Kevin Spacey dominates the
screen,
as he does with every movie he has ever been in. He is far and away the
best
actor going today, and his role in Seven may be his best so far. Giving
away
any details of his part would take away from the effect of the movie, but
let's just say it is chilling how good he is. Every scene is important,
and
the scenery and music help develop the mood of the story, which is
definitely grim. Not sure why so many people have revolted at the "gore
and
violence" of this movie, as most of it is implied and never really shown.
People don't seem to have a problem reading about it in the newspapers, in
books, or even the Bible, but I guess it's different when it's presented
in
your face on the big screen. Doesn't make sense to me, but whatever. If
you
can look past that, you're looking at one of the top 10 movies of the
90's,
and one of the best ever. 10/10, 100/100, 1000/1000, an all-time
classic.


******
26 November 1999
9

The dark and permanently rainy sky of a big city with no identity is
watching two policemen throughout a nightmare journey until Seven. The seven
deadly sins (and murders) are converted in the hands of a serial killer into
a motive for the  purifying of the modern world.
Fincher's camera follows the steps towards salvation while creating a mental
jigsaw which balances with expert manipulation between paranoia and realism.
A total cult - the most classic (along with The Silence of the Lambs)
thriller of the 90s. 

******
17 November 1999
10

Director David Fincher creates a movie that has the classic quality of
"The
Manchurian Candidate." MANY viewers were disgusted by the extreme
violence.
Even now I can slowly see this movie slipping slowly off of the top 250.
However, this amazing movie keeps EVERYBODY, no matter how digusted,
watching until the incredible ending. Also try Fincher's "The
Game."

******
16 November 1999
9

David Fincher. An auteur? Judging by films such as Alien3, the Game and
Fight Club you might be forgiven for thinking so but it's Se7en that really
stands out. Dark, disturbing and dangerously addictive. This film has all
the ingredients of a thought provoking, highly entertaining film and the
tried and tested old cop/young cop plot is given a complete and refreshing
overhaul.The menacing idea behind the film is second to the none and the addition of
great performances by Freeman (on top form as the old cop) and Pitt
(proving
he can act) only add to the overall quality.Includes one of the most memorable scenes in film this decade where John
Doe
utters the words, "Detective. Detective. DETECTIVE"!Prepare yourself though, for the ending that ultimately leaves a very long
lasting impression on you. The twist will throw you so far off course it
will take several viewings for it all to sink in.This is how films should be made. David Fincher is a directing hero.
Freeman
and Pitt are perfect in their roles. Se7en is a landmark for detective
thrillers. Watch it!

******
6 November 1999
10

When I was viewing Se7en for the first time, I anticipated it as one of
those films that scares you with blood based upon all this talk of how gory
it was.  I definitely did not expect it to be the intelligent,
philosophizing, brilliant piece of film it was.  The script is very
well-done especially in the dialogue of Morgan Freeman's character.  Good
acting all-around but my hat goes off to the actor who plays the killer (I
won't divulge his name) but it's definitely the actor's best performance
ever and it's what makes the film so great.  Many have put Se7en on a
pedestal with Silence of the Lambs as the best serial killer movies ever but
in my book it goes one notch higher.

******
4 November 1999
9

 I first saw this movie when it came out in 1996 it was a great  suspense
movie. I saw it again on Video and I must say it is right up there with
Silence Of The Lambs as the best movie of that genre.
  The direction by Fincher is Fantastic.The ending will make you think long
after the movie has ended.I have read a few who hated this movie and I
really cannot see why.

******
1 November 1999
10

Disturbing yet compelling, Se7en is the last great dark thriller that I've
seen. With tour de force performances by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt (and
an gripping uncredited appearance by my favorite actor, Kevin Spacey,) Se7en
takes you on a gripping journey through the mean streets of New York City,
as a veteran and a rookie detective track down a serial killer who murders
to set an example that the seven deadly sins are the causes of society's
eminent demise.Cinematography and sound are brilliant and the murders are so horrifying,
yet your eyes are glued to the screen for the entire time. If you don't mind
graphic, grotesque depictions of murder and you love psychological thrillers
with first-rate actors, this is the film for you. Don't be fooled by the
Se7en rip-offs that have surfaced in the past few years (Kiss the Girls, The
Bone Collector.) This is the genuine article.

******
24 October 1999
9

I liked everything about this movie.  It seemed like the pacing was
particulary slow purposely to let the viewer think.  But Fincher has created
an excellent movie.  I liked Pitt here, and Freeman was excellent as usual. 
But the one who steals the whole movie is the one and only Kevin Spacey.  I
cant tell you how much I love this guy.  He is the best contemporary actor
today.  He should have gotten a supporting nod for this role.  I can watch
the scene at the end when there taking the killer to see the supposedly two
dead bodies over and over again.  Spacey just hypnotizes me when he speaks. 
He should get Best Actor this year for American Beauty...he was amazing
there and he was amazing here!

******
21 October 1999
10

Seven is a superb piece of film-making that draws you into its bleak world
and throws you out gasping.  Everything about this film is superlative -
the
dialogue, the performances, the cinematography.  In short, go and see it
for
the cinematic ride of your life-time (and I mean one that is based in
emotions not special effects).

******
13 October 1999
10

This was an AWESOME movie... Morgan Freeman is an awesome actor, but Kevin
Spacey really steals the show, he plays John Doe so perfectly, and the
ending really is the best part of this movie, because Kevin Spacey a great
actor and can play psychos so well (but he showed us he can play losers
just
as well in A.B.). The entire movie leads up to the extraordinarily
surprising ending, even though the director wants you to think that the
ending is going to be really big, and still surprises you. Spacey's half
hour part in the movie is one of the best endings i've ever seen. I say
again... DISH MOVIE WASH SOHOOO SHTUCKING SHWEET!!!!! 

******
8 October 1999
10

This movie was truly awesome.  Detectives David Mills and William Somerset
played by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are on the trail of a truly twisted
serial killer.
David Fincher's direction sets the dismal mood as most every scene is shot
in dim lighting.  There is nothing too bright or sunny about any of this.


******
15 September 1999
9

My Age: 13Detective William Somerset, played by Morgan Freeman, is retiring from his
job as a homicide police detective.  Detective David Mills, played by Brad
Pitt, has just arrived at homicide, and he and Somerset must work together
when a serial killer begins killing perpetrators of the seven deadly sins. 
Somerset researches from the sources of the seven deadly sins to try and get
into the mind of the killer while the victims and bodies keep piling
up.Seven comprises of two great acting performances from Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt, and supporting actors are good as well.  The plot of Seven is
very interesting and the story grabs hold of your attention and doesn't let
go until the credits roll.  It is a little boring, but it more than makes up
for it in story.  The killer's spiritual motives are fascinating and his
final two victims are very well conceived.  The ending climax is also
fantastic and very well thought out.  Seven is one of the best thrillers
around and is definitely worth seeing.Australian Classification: R 18+: Medium Level Violence, Medium Level Coarse
LanguageRating: 76 out of 100

******
6 September 1999
8

Apart from being a top notch thriller, Seven is also a marvel of
production
design and photography. The grimness of the story is brought to life in a
vivid depiction. Freeman and Spacey are great. A truly memorable
film.

******
23 August 1999
10

Warning:  may contain minor spoilers (probably nothing you wouldn't see on
the video jacket)I watched this on video over the weekend and was glued to my seat and scared
out of my wits.  I didn't see Seven in the theater when it originally came
out because I thought it would be too gory and creepy, but am I glad I
decided to see it.  This is a superbly crafted psychological drama/thriller
with great acting by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman as two detectives on the
trail of a serial killer caught up in religious fervor who happens to be
extremely intelligent.  The killer chooses his victims based on the "seven
deadly sins" (gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, pride, envy and wrath) and can
only be described as extremely creative in the ways he kills and tortures
his victims.  I was afraid the movie might be too gory for me, but I managed
to stay in my seat, only covering my eyes a couple of times.  The director
successfully creates a mounting tension as the story unfolds, and the
unexpected ending will leave you speechless -- one of the best movie endings
I've seen.  As my husband said, "whoever wrote this script must be slightly
off just to have been able to think of it!"  Watch this movie if you haven't
already, preferably not by yourself.  I give it a 9.5 out of
10.

******
17 August 1999
9

I've seen Se7en twice, the second time because it was on when I was
flipping
channels. This film is absolutely brilliant, and it's difficult to think
of
a single misstep.But it's not a film to enjoy; I think there's only one even vaguely upbeat
scene in the film, there mostly to provide the necessary contrast with the
awesome finale. The rest of the time it portrays the police inhabiting a
city where it continually rains, where anyone could be indescribably evil,
and where it takes the exceptionally twisted acts of the serial killer to
shock the police.Plaudits should go to everyone involved, with praise being heaped on
Freeman, Pitt and Spacey. But the loudest applause should be reserved for
the writer and director, Andrew Kevin Walker and David Fincher, for
turning
out such a masterpiece. Even the producers deserve some credit, for having
the faith not to slap on a smiley happy ending, as is de rigeur in too
many
of the current confections being churned out of Hollywood.See this film. You may well not enjoy it, you might not sleep too soundly
afterwards, but it's worth it, to see one of the greatest films of recent
years.

******
15 August 1999
10

I can´t believe I haven´t commented on this film earlier. This is 
filmmaking of the highest order. A superb script wonderfully realized. I
hope Fincher can maintain the high standards he has set for himself here. A
future filmmaker can learn a lot from this movie, just in terms of pacing.
The way it shifts into high gear is masterful, and it´s refreshing to find a
director nowadays who knows when and how to move the camera for maximum
dramatic effect. Howard Shore´s fine score is unobtrusive and used only when
needed. Photography, editing, acting- top notch, and I thought Brad Pitt was
just a Hollywood pretty boy, how wrong was I? I understand the producers
wanted a more upbeat ending, and that Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt deserves
credit for helping Fincher convince them not to change anything. As we
approach the end of the millenium, this is one movie who stands tall above
the vast sea of forgettable Hollywood movies of the 90s.

******
14 August 1999
8

This is one of my most favorite movies of all time. I was disappointed when
this film was first released at the movies, because I was too young to go
watch it, I would have enjoyed the movie going experience for Se7en.But when I watched the movie for the first time, i was glued to the
television screen, it was around 2 in the morning and i had the surround
sound speakers doing their job, and for the next two hours i was enthrawlled
in this deeply disturbing movie about a maticulous serial killer who
patterned his murders according to the seven deadly sins, Gluttony, Sloth,
Pride, Greed, Envy, Wrath and Lust.The two detectives played flawlessly by Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are
dragged into the sick mind of the killer as murder upon murder piles up each
posing their own little riddles for the pair to solve.This movie, which was director David Fincher's first and writer Andrew Kevin
Walkers finest is a thrilling ride which keeps you guessing all the way
until the thrilling climax which will throw everyone for a
loop.Truly one of the greatest thrillers ever, I have watched it multiple times,
and you know what I think i'll go watch it again.
      

******
10 July 1999
10

A great testimony to this film, whilst you cannot repeatedly enjoy the
sheer
horror of its initial viewing, you can vicariously enjoy the shocked
amazement and trauma of people who have recently seen it.

******
4 July 1999
9

Seven is the most deeply disturbing ever made. The horrific brutality of
the
murders in various scenes stays with you longer then you might like. Great
writing, directing, cinematography, special effects, and acting highlight
this film and make it one of the 10 best movies in the 90's. The seven
brutal murders are either under filmed or filmed in dark unlit places so
as
to leave the viewer's imagination running in overdrive. Each murder is
brutal enough to jolt you and make you not forget it. My personal favorit
are lust, and sloth. The man tied to the bed and tortured for a year is
sick
and twisted as anything I've ever seen. The special effects of this and
the
gluttony murder are perfect. The writing is flawless in assembling this
perfect crime with a purpose. The screenplay makes sure to be as
descriptive
in the details of each death so as to further the viewer's imagination as
though reading a book instead of watching a movie. The creepy dark
atmosphere of the movie can be credited to perfect directing. And great
performances by the four central characters: Morgan Freeman (who is always
great and gives any movie a certain nobility), Kevin Spacey who is perfect
as
the sick lunatic who's crimes go way beyond that of Keyser Soze, Brad Pitt
(in his 2nd best role), and Gwyenth Paltrow who does a maximum job with
her
minimal screen time. But the sickest question in the movie remains the
horric and disturbing end. > 

******
16 June 1999
10

"Se7en" is one of the best movies I've seen in a long time.  It has great
actors, especially Morgan Freeman, who's wonderful.  But I think the man
that steals the show is Kevin Spacey as Jon Doe.  He's absolutely Oscar
worthy in this challenging, complex role.  He's magnificent.Therefore, "Se7en" gets a 10!~

******
8 May 1999
10

This thriller has got it all; A very scary plot, excellent performances (
Freeman is fantastic), hair-rising score but the thing that makes this
picture so great is the camerawork.
When Brad Pitt is chasing the killer through an apartment-building it
feels
so realistic and it's because of the tremendous camerawork.Another great thing that's so great is the odd-couple story.
The white-cop-black-cop thing doesn't feel silly, as in the lethal
weapon-movies.And of course the ending. The fantastic ending ( one of the very few times
the killer wins)And Gwyneth Paltrow makes this disgusting film beautiful in a couple of
scenes...
10/10

******
24 April 1999
10

I've had this discussion with many friends on what the most disturbing film
they've ever seen is, and the results have been fairly
consistent.The fact is, that "Se7en" is the most disturbing film I have ever seen in my
28 years and it will likely have a stronghold grip on that title for some
time to come. I say this from a male perspective.And while I can appreciate why some of my female friend's opinions that
"Silence Of The Lambs" holds the "Most Disturbing" title, I have to say that
title was lost when "Se7en" was released.
David Fincher's dark vision is incredibly creative and harrowing and will
likely stay with me for years to come. When I first saw this film with my
brother, I was blown away. This film taps into the greatest fear of all men,
smashing like a sledgehammer into the weakest, most delicate area of the
male psyche. I didn't rise from my seat at the theater not because I
couldn't wait to see the credits, but rather to let the feeling in my
stomach subside, so that I may walk out properly with some semblance of
dignity.Being a newly married man, I found the film to be the sheer embodiment of my
worst fears which spoiler guidelines prohibit me from elaborating on.
"Silence of the Lambs" may have freaked me out a bit, but it never touched
me the way this film did.Coming home, I couldn't decide what to tell my wife about the film. I did
enjoy the film. It's a masterful achievement for any filmmaker, and the
principal cast was excellent. But I didn't want her to see it, and realize
my greatest fear. I told her straight out the reasons why, and I think it
scared her off enough. Eventually, I had calmed down, and changed my tune.
It was the only time in my life that I have behaved in such a
manner.We had another couple over, and my good friend's wife had also not seen the
film. We watched the video with due reverence, and at its end had a
discussion about it. Both women agreed that they enjoyed it very much, but
it didn't have the same effect on them as it did us. The fact that "Silence
of the Lambs" victims were all female may have something to do with our
wives' points-of-view. Nevertheless, I can scarcely imagine a film that
would tap into my soul and chill it in the same way "Se7en"
has. 


******
20 April 1999
9

Let me say at the outset that I am not a great admirer of David
Fincher as a director. Alien3 was far too dreary and bleak, while The Game
seemed to be a hollow,if stylish, exercise in manipulation. Having said
that, I must register my admiration for Se7en. It was both absolutely
terrifying and  thought -provoking. The cinematography, the acting,and
script were all superb. Morgan Freeman is indeed one of the world's greatest
actors, while Brad Pitt does a great job  as the slow-witted, dogged,
arrogant young cop. (Perhaps because his own personality in real life is so
similar.) However, the revelation is the performance by the actor playing
"John Doe" . I will not give his name, as that would help give away the
plot
Having sung se7ens praises, why do I call it "nihilistic"? For one thing,
the overall tone of the film is one of dread and despair. But much more
importantly, Se7en boasts one of the most terrifying endings of any film I
have ever seen. It makes the ending of Chinatown seem like the ending of It's
a Wonderful Life.  
 

******
20 April 1999
9

My expectation of Se7en wasn't that big. Maybe that's why i loved it that
much. The actors are fantastic, the plot scary, and both the music and
directing tops the best X- files episode. This one even gets on top of ''The
silence of the lambs'' ( even though the copying from that movie is pretty
obvious ). It got me in about the same way as Texas Chainsaw Massacre. It was
dark and disgusting. I mean, just the idea of getting a big fat man eat
himself to death makes anyone land on your knees and throw up. The city is
as dark and rainy as in ''Blade Runner'' and ''The Crow'', the plot at least
as good as in Silence of the lambs, and none of the actors have made a
better performance than they did in this movie. The best of them was of
course Kevin Spacey. This movie is going up to number 4 on my favorite
movie-list. I don't think i can describe it any further. Go and watch Se7en
now. If you dare that is.  

******
12 April 1999
10

if you were to be stranded on a desert island, and could only have one film
to watch - THIS MUST BE IT !!!!
it had everything: a wonderful storyline,moody lighting, acting of the
highest order (how freeman or spacey did not win oscars for their
performances beggars belief) appropriate music to set the
scene.
I have seen this film over a dozen times now, and i still see something new
within the film every time i see it.
this, as a psychological movie, is the best that has been made - better even
than the overrated Silence of the Lambs.


******
10 April 1999
10

I judge a film to be worthy of watching judging by the response that it
elicits from me. A film that challenges me, draws me into it is definitely
worth seeing, and Se7en definitely fits that criterion. This movie shocked
an amazed me, leaving me practically breathless by the conclusion (which
is
one of the most shocking twists I have ever seen). It terrified and
captivated me. A must see.

******
10 April 1999
9

Spectacular piece of dark filmmaking, starring Morgan Freeman as the aging
police detective and Brad Pitt as the newly-transferred cop. Freeman is
set
to retire in a few days, until he comes across two bizarre killings, both
taken from the seven deadly sins, though it takes the two cops a while to
figure it out. Brutally realistic imagery throughout, including perpetual
rainfall and lack of lighting, giving the sense that you are standing
there
with Somerset (Freeman) and Mills (Pitt), not watching through a
light-amplified TV camera. Tense and powerful, though I disagree with
Leonard Maltin on his saying that "The film seems to wallow in the human
depravity it so passionately decries." For those who think the film
"wallows
in depravity", I say to you that it seems to be an exquisite irony that it
would appear to feature depravity while it (the movie) decries depravity.
Constant and consistent dark settings only add to this movie, making it
one
of the best crime/psychological thrillers since Silence of the
Lambs.Rating: 9/10

******
5 April 1999
10

My favorite thing in film is atmosphere. Once a film has set a tone for its
story, I am completely hooked. Seven is a very disturbing film, for some too
disturbing. Anyone who has seen Seven though doesn't deny it's ability to
leave you with a strange feeling or leave you thinking about it for days
afterwards. David Fincher is a very talented director. I thought his Alien 3
film was much more powerful than other people I know and here Fincher shows
he has talent. The mood is set from the very beginning, especially the
credit sequence. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt become their characters and
the film pulls you into its universe. It makes you feel scared, it makes
you think. How many films will you see that will make you talk and think in
your lifetime. The cinematography by Darius Khondji is amazing and the set
design is beautiful. David Fincher has made a very memorable film, one you
will never forget.

******
1 April 1999
10

This is one of the more memorable films I ever saw. I have seen it four
times by now, but it still draws me completely into the story every time.All along you hope together with Bratt Pitts' character that there is a
basic sense of goodness in humanity and that it is worth fighting for, but
deep down you know that Morgan Freeman's character has seen it all and
lost
hope. The more the film proceeds the more you realize that most people in
the film don't care about good or bad anymore, and the way the murders are
committed really make you feel sick (note: there isn't much to see, but
your
imagination can fill in far to many missing details).Towards the end there are some amazing twists that turn the story from a
nicely resolved murder case into a very tense finale that makes you feel
completely drained.Brilliant!

******
9 March 1999
9

Recently I viewed the movie Seven after much prodding from those around me,
saying that it would scare the bejeezus out of me. Well, it certainly did
that, but it also gave me a very enjoyable viewing experience of an
outstanding movie. Pitt and Freeman both turn in outstanding performances as
well as the maniacally sane Spacey who gives his second best performance
after his amazing role in The Usual Suspects. To me, the movie had the feel
of Bladerunner including the crowded feeling that is gave as well as the
constant rain. It certainly was disturbing but more so it was frightening.
Seven was definitely not as disturbing as Apocalypse Now or even Pulp
Fiction. All in all, it is a great movie, and one of the best if a scare is
what you're looking for.

******
2 March 1999
8

This movie scared me more than any other film I have seen.  The performances
were great.  Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt worked well together.  Spacey was
eerie and haunting as the killer.  In fact the only person who didn't work
good in the film was Gwyneth Paltrow (as much as I like her).  Fincher's
direction was great.  Especially how he used rain on the first six days and
a sunny desert on the last. 

******
16 February 1999
10

I thought this was a very good movie, and it was able to surprise me
throughout. I thought the acting was wonderful, and the cast was well
chosen. I'd recommend this to anyone who likes suspenseful movies.


******
12 February 1999
10

Se7en effected me in a big way. It made me see that the people I look up to
and admire are far from perfect and the human race is a quite disgusting
breed of animal. There are so many issues in this movie, complex and truly
frightening. A lot of the violence in the film goes unseen apart from split
second shots of the victims, this improves suspense and the realism in this
movie is amazing. Kevin Spacey is rapidly becoming my favourite actor and he
plays as an unerringly vacant, incredibly intelligent man. They're always the
quiet ones so they say, and that's what scares me the most. 

******
12 February 1999
10

An accomplished thriller from a great director, David Fincher. Falls into
essentially two parts - in part one, veteran detective Morgan Freeman and
cocky upstart Brad Pitt team up to catch a serial slayer with a biblical
bent.Part two turns this formulaic thriller premise on its head leading the detectives into a completely stunning,
shocking, kick-you-in-the-nuts terrific ending.Fincher has created a stylish, intentionally ugly look that transcends
the pulp narrative. Deeply philsophical and provocative, featuring a very
satisfying and memorable finale, with outstanding direction, excellent
performances by Freeman, Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow and especially Kevin Spacey,
who consolidates his position as Hollywood's preeminent character player by
playing the creepiest psycho since John Lithgow in BLOW
OUT.

******
7 February 1999
9

I made the mistake of going to see this film a second time before I had had
time to assimilate the first viewing. I was nearly sick from the tension....
The punishment for Pride had me gasping with fear.All the main characters are unlikeable, to the extent that you really don't
care how badly things go for them. Amazingly Gwyneth Paltrow portrays a
character so weak and spineless, so unsympathetic, that my sympathies almost
lay with the psychopathic Kevin Spacey - almost. Is there no end to this
woman's talents?Very unpleasant, and deeply disturbing. Unmissable, but not for the faint
hearted.

******
29 January 1999
8

Se7en left me hollow.Se7en enlightened me.Se7en opened my eyes.Se7en will TEACH you.". . .because, we see a deadly sin, on every corner, in every home, and we
tolerate it, because it's common, because it's trivial. We tolerate it
morning noon and night. Well, not any more. I'm setting the example. And
what I've done, is going to be puzzled over, and remembered forever, and
FOLLOWED. . ."-John DoeThese words not only sent a chill down my spine, but also opened my eyes to
the sins of the world we live in.ABSOLUTELY TERRIFYING.Philosophical to the root.People who haven't seen this film, I admire you.I mean it, I ADMIRE YOU.I ENVY YOU.I guess ENVY is MY sin. . .

******
28 January 1999
10

Before I saw David Fincher's "Se7en" I liked movies. After I saw it, I
started to LOVE movies. The atmosphere, the music, the acting, that
gut-wrenching finale.....what a movie!!!!!
The fact that "The Silence of the Lambs" is considered a better movie by the
critics than "Se7en" is a scandal. Kevin Spacey should have been at least
nominated for his role as John Doe. Keyser Söse, my @$$. Andrew Kevin
Walker's screenplay is also superb. So is Fincher's directing ("The Game"
kicks @$$. Can't wait for "The Fight Club"). And Morgan Freeman. And Brad
Pitt. And everyone else involved in the making of this movie. Plus, that
title sequence made me consider that maybe the academy should add "Best
title sequence" to the Academy Awards.
So, if you like pure suspense, without the gore, watch
"Se7en"...again! 

******
28 January 1999
9

Wow!  Spacey as a sinister John Doe, leaves a child like feeling of fear
after sitting through se7en.  Hopefully we will all be safe from this
psychopath .  It is a pity that Spacey couldn't have been seen as an  Oscar
candidate in this film.  No one could have delivered the performance as
well.  As for the climax one of the best thriller climaxes I have ever
witnessed, Pitt's facial expressions alone let the viewer feel his
suffering, and predictament.  Perfect 10 for Se7en.

******
27 January 1999
9
Seven is one of the most disturbing films ever to come to the screen.
This is one of those movies that will get under your skin, and stay
with you for a long time. I appreciate this movie not because I am
preoccupied with death, or horrific murder scenes...on the contrary,
death and murder scare me, and so I would hope a film that portrays
these things would do so in a very frightening way. Seven does. Indeed,
this is one of the scariest movies I have ever seen. I only recommend
this one to people who can stomach very dark, and painfully realistic
movies. If you do want to see it, be warned that it does contain some
of the most disturbing murder scenes I have ever witnessed on film, and
the ending will haunt you long after the film is over. However, the
realness...the idea that in life there aren't always happy endings,
shines through in Seven. If that is the kind of movie you like, or
think you can appreciate, then by all means, see Seven.

******
26 January 1999
9

This is a GREAT movie. The Direction is unique in many
ways.
Next to Silence of the Lambs, this is the best of its kind.  The
suspense is great. The story line is fast moving. A must see for mature
adults. 

******
21 January 1999
9

This movie was extremely powerful, scary, well-written, and extremely well
acted. But I must warn, some of the aftermaths are quite graphic and may not
be suitable for the squeamish.
9 out of 10.
Rated R for graphic aftermaths of murders, some violence, and strong
language.

******
18 January 1999
10

What can I say about this film that hasn't been said time and time again.
Everything about this film is first-rate, especially the hugely talented
cast.  Is it even possible to make a bad movie with Morgan Freeman and Kevin
Spacey?  The actors hammered home a script that was chilling, disturbing,
and altogether memorable in every imaginable way.  And then to top it all
off, this movie has what is probably the most magnificent ending that I have
ever seen.  If you can handle the content of this film, then it is truly a
must-see. 

******
11 January 1999
10

This is not a movie.  This is not a 2 hour and some odd minutes vaunt into
some fairy land where you leave the theater smiling, discussing character
development and costume design.Rather, SE7EN is dark and rainy.  It shows us what our secrets look like; it
exemplifies the mysteries behind what we all think but never dare whisper in
even the most intimate company.  Anyone intelligent enough to appreciate
such images and emotions will revere SE7EN as a work of art.  Only the most
immature viewers, blinded by images of death and darkness, will not
understand what SE7EN is.  SE7EN is what life is. 

******
7 January 1999
10

This is probably my favorite movie ever!  I have very rarely encountered a
movie that makes me think as long and hard as this one did - Se7en still has
the power to move me, even though I've seen it several times! Although I can
understand why some people would find it too "dark", the message is too
important to be ignored.  All of the actors did a wonderful job. 


******
3 January 1999
10

I think this is a fabulous film, a sort of gothic fairytale for the end of
the 20th century.In a way, this shows what Alien 3 could have been, if Fox had had the
courage to let Fincher have his way.  It looks wonderful, the city is an
evil presence in itself, and is intelligently scripted and acted.  What
impresses me most, however, is that the film has the courage of its
convictions.It's horribly logical; we know how it's going to end, but we don't want
things to turn out that way.  The film, unusually for mainstream Hollywood
product, doesn't cop out and give us a happy ending - it gives us the ending
it has to have.

******
2 January 1999
10

Se7en is a smart movie, and I liked it. This movie a what I call a real
thriller. This movie keeps you on the edge of your seat. It has a smart plot
too.I really recommend it, it's good. 

******
29 December 1998
10

One of the best movies I've ever seen.Great suspense, great story, great acting, best ending ever (I'm  not
kidding here)

******
23 December 1998
10

This is a movie for those who hate happy endings.It is shocking and
disturbing.But it grabs you and shakes you up.Like John Doe said 'You just
can't tap on someone's shoulder to get their attention these days,you have
to hit them with a slegde hammer'.Se7en proves this point.It had to be
shocking to have made an impact on us.

******
18 December 1998
9

Morgan Freeman steals the show once again in this EXCELLENT thriller.  A
great storyline, and great suspense makes this film one of the best.  Kevin
Spacey is great as "John Doe"; this movie keeps you on the edge of your
seat.

******
16 December 1998
10

Well for starters, if you haven't seen Seven, get to the local store and
rent it.  Personally, it made my top 5 movies #1.  However my taste leans
directly on this Neo-Gothicism that has been winning over people for about
the last 20 years by using the dark-realism of Gothic architecture, acting,
lighting,speech, all combined with this new sense of Evil that has been felt
by nations seemingly since the 80's, when we supposedly sold our souls .
Other selections much like 'The Crow','The Silence of the Lambs' , 'Dark
City' and even to an extent 'the Devil's Advocate' remove the viewer from
their safe-seats, and sits them on the rained-gritty street corner where a
whispered conversation is taking place.  It removes that false sense of
security that watching years of 'Happy Days' can give you.  For me, Seven
was deeply philosophic (obviously), and I probably don't go a day without
some reference to it.  However, the reason it digs so deep into us, is that
it is absolutely possible.  Your average nutcase could copycat this movie,
and claim insanity at the trial.  Enjoy! 

******
18 November 1998
10

An intense thriller with a great cast, director and script. And what an
ending! This is a movie that should have won a lot of Oscars, but
didn't.

******
7 November 1998
10

Se7en is definitely one of the absolute best films I have ever
seen.  The whole atmosphere is as dark and scarey as the actual killings and
action.  Morgan Freeman gives yet another excellent dramatic role who is
sick of city crime but is unknowingly getting pulled into another game of
violence.  This is Kevin Spacey's best role as an actor for sure, he plays
the part, and fits the characters needs perfectly.  The only thing you can
do to him in the movie is hate him to your fullest extent. For some people,
they thought Se7en was too slow or dragged out, but I think that it just
added to the depressing plot to make the film seem more real than you can
immagine.  If you have a weak stomach, I commend you for making it past the
opening credits. 

******
4 November 1998
10

One of the most intelligent films ever made!After seeing the movie several times I THINK I have understood what the
writer meant, and the genius of the ending... see it, and think about
it!

******
26 October 1998
10

I was taken by the way this film used the viewer's imagination to conjure up
the most horrifying images of this story without graphically displaying them
on screen.  I was gripped by the suspense surrounding horrifying questions
of what? and more fightening still why? Mostly I was shocked and surprised
and appalled as I learned the answers and found myself agreeing with the
twisted logic of the grotesque madman behind the acts. A very worthy
statement made loud and clear on film without the violent acts in actual
life. Kevin Spacey is superb as always.  He scared the heck out of me.


******
21 October 1998
10

About a week ago I watched "Saving Private Ryan". In the first thirty
minutes of the film I felt like someone was punching me in the stomach. That
is the same feeling I get every time I watch Se7en. When I first saw it, 3
years ago, I couldn't find the words to express the emotions I felt. I still
can't. A brilliant work, by all aspects.

******
19 October 1998
10

This movie really should make everyone think about how he
lives,
what he does, if it is right. You can never be sure when
you're
involved in a thing like Seven in real life. Play smart,
repeat
these words: GLUTTONY, GREED, ENVY, LUST, SLOTH, PRIDE,
WRATH.
(yes, I still remember them, in spite of having seen the
movie
only once, and that it was more than 3 years ago.)

******
12 October 1998
10

This is without doubt the best suspense/thriller/horror movie I have ever
seen. I was in shock days after seeing it the first time and still today
after seeing it the fourth time I am deeply touched by this film. At the end
of the movie I really wanted to scream in order to do something with my
frustration.And you will get frustrated over this movie, because it has no happy ending,
no justice and no redemption. It will leave you with a big, bleeding hole in
your heart.And that is what I love about this movie. It does not aim to please. It aims
to tell you a disturbing story about human disintegration and it sticks with
that. There are no cliches or displaced love and affection. You as the
viewer can either love or hate it but you cannot be ignorant about it. If
this movie has had a happy ending I would have been very disappointed, but
fortunately it does not. Thank you Mr. Fincher for making this contribution
to mankind. Rating: 10 of 10. 

******
4 October 1998
9

Just when I thought I was de-sensitized to horror films, "Se7en" comes along.
I felt completely unsettled after seeing it for the first time.  When
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt were checking out the "Sloth" victim securely
tied to the bed, I saw one of the nastiest surprises ever!  For a couple of
days, I didn't want to talk or even think about that particular scene.
Religious people were scary enough, but Kevin Spacey--playing as the
religious fanatic serial killer--just made them a little scarier,as if that
were ever possible!  Overall, this is a great serial killer movie and ranks
right up there with "Silence of the Lambs."

******
2 October 1998
10

I think this is the best thriller ever made.
I was scared watching "The Silence of Lambs" but I felt
something very strange from the start of this movie.
Somehow I knew it would not end with happy-end. And it did
not.The atmosphere is great - rain, dark rooms, dark library,
dark
places of crimes. The story is horrific but believable.
Freeman is great as usual but I was pleasantly surprised
by
Pitt's acting, too.
When Freeman cries "Drop the gun" and runs to David in that moment you know
everything but you cannot believe that Miles will do it.
I was like knocked-down after watching this.
I think the 10 is not enough to vote for this.
Turn the light off, sit down (alone of course) and watch.


******
5 August 1998
8

An  extremely well written and directed movie starring Brad Pitt, Morgan
 Freeman, and Kevin Spacey.  About a veteran homicide cop(Freeman) and his
 new partner(Pitt) who just transferred to the department.  The killer
(Spacey) kills people for comitting the seven deadly sins.  Then would write
 the persons sin on the scene of the crime with the persons blood or some
 other item.   That's all I can give away, it's a really good movie that I
 advise you to go see.

******
2 August 1998
9
David Fincher once said: "I don't know how much movies should entertain. To
me I'm always interested in movies that scar. The thing I love about JAWS
is the fact that I've never gone swimming in the ocean again." Well, SE7EN
gave me a scar... and wow.. What a scar. 'cause it's so dark and so scary
that I keept thinking about it for days, not to mention while walking out
of the cinema. So if you haven't seen this one yet, all I can say is: I N V
U.

******
19 December 2015
10
David Fincher's great style of directing, a movie that's brilliantly
dark and it's superbly acted. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are a
pairing couple or opposite personalities and Kevin Spacey is the
villain we all love and hate, such a great performance. Intelligent
writing with no clichés and the imagery of the grotesque never descends
into thoughts unnecessary gore or sensationalism. Brilliant
cinematography with a bleak tone, the film has a sense of dread and
some moments are climax. Se7en sticks with you in your and it's really
unforgettable. The plot keeps you hooked until the most terrifying
final moments you will ever see. It is scary because it uses your
imagination against you in a deep, deeper level. A classic crime
thriller that remains uncompromising no matter how many times you watch
it.

******
25 November 2015
8
Se7en (1995): Dir: David Fincher / Cast: Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman,
Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey, John C. McGinley: Utterly terrifying yet
intelligent thriller about the seven deadly sins, which are methods
used by the killer. Morgan Freeman plays a detective on the verge of
retirement and Brad Pitt plays a young cop transferred to the district.
Throughout the film they are forced to deal with the sight of grisly
murders involving gluttony, greed, sloth, lust, etc. Compelling,
unsettling and powerful with directing by David Fincher who previously
made Alien 3. He presents the gloom and rain that affects the mood.
Freeman is flawless as a detective who delays his retirement out of
curiosity and maintains a blatant disposition that his partner cannot
endure. Pitt is effective as the younger yet skilled cop who learns
fatal lessons by the film's conclusion. Gwyneth Paltrow plays Pitt's
wife who confesses that she dislikes the transfer. It is her that will
likely generate the most sympathy from viewers during sad realizations.
Kevin Spacey is featured is a scene stealing cameo that dominates the
moment he first appears. This is where the revelations surface and the
deadly sins increase their meaning. Outside the principal actors, other
roles are fairly standard issue. Disturbing and sometimes graphic film
that reaches into the depths of our mind in a message of control and
other sins that God will have us not commit. Score: 8 ½ / 10

******
10 February 2015
10
I think "Se7en" is my favourite David Fincher film, and given the body
of work which the director has so far produced, that was not an easy
decision to make. Much as I adore the intense character study of "The
Social Network", the dark mind-games of "Gone Girl" and the rich
storytelling in "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button", I feel that
"Se7en" is Fincher showing off everything he does best. It's a
brooding, jet black thriller which makes you look inwardly and consider
so many aspects of human nature.In the film, Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play homicide detectives 
one recently transferred to a large city, the other getting ready for
retirement. On paper, their relationship is a detective cliché, but
Pitt and Freeman's chemistry ensures that it transcends this. The pair
start to discover a string of horrific murders, each one linked to one
of the seven deadly sins, and attempt to track down the killer. They
get closer and closer, and it becomes almost a game as the detectives
try to prevent the next murder from occurring. There are twists and
turns at every single corner up to the point where the murderer
actually hands himself in, and even then you can tell that the game is
barely over.It's a film with a very clear process from the beginning, but this is
not a bad thing. It takes you along so you feel like you know what's
going to happen next, and then subverts your expectation right at the
next step. The three lead performances are all brilliant, but the
standout performance is that of Spacey, whose slow speech and constant
calmness turn him into such a convincing psychopath. The greatest scene
in the film is in set in a car, towards the end of the film, when
Spacey explains his reasoning for committing the murders. The
terrifying thing about the scene is that you can, in a way, completely
understand the murderer's point, and this is cemented greatly by
Spacey's performance.As is to be expected from Fincher, the visuals in the film are
incredible, and he doesn't waste a moment when he can shock. Each of
the portrayals of the seven sins is as shocking as the next, and
"gluttony" doesn't really kick things off that lightly. But again,
Fincher's success is in disturbing his audience merely by suggestion
rather than explicitly showing them anything. The murder based on
"lust" isn't even described that graphically, but the very idea that it
produces causes it to be one of the most difficult to watch scenes in
the movie.In "Se7en", Fincher has created a near-perfect thriller. There is not a
bored moment in the entire film, and not even Gwyneth Paltrow's
presence can spoil the atmosphere or enjoyment. Pitt, Freeman and
Spacey complement each other perfectly, and help the film to achieve
something that is actually relatively rare in movies of this genre  it
actually makes your heart race.

******
9 November 2013
3
"Se7en" ... do I really need to go over the plot? Seven deadly sins:
each murder victim a perpetrator of one of the sins.I guess this is a clever plot device but really ... why not go after
pedophiles and rapists? Let's murder someone for being a little lazy
but go forth and be free evil pedo. Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt; detectives picking over each crime scene and
chasing the serial killer (Kevin Spacey). Gwyneth Paltrow is the meek
and dependent wife of Brad Pitt's character unhappy with the move to
the city she and her husband have made.I remember this back in 1995; setting new standards for on-screen
goriness but to me it crossed a line into being gratuitous. The Gwyneth
Paltrow character in my opinion was so obvious she may as well have
been wearing a target the whole time. I remember thinking this early on
as I saw it in the cinema back in '95.Okay so enough has been said about this one over the years. I'll get to
my point.Six of the victims were gruesomely murdered by the serial killer based
on a sin he saw them perpetrate. Greedy guy is made to eat to death,
slothful guy is rendered immobile, etcetera, etcetera.*SPOILER*So the killer rigs things up so that he is killed for the sin of envy,
having harassed and killed the obvious target (Paltrow). So target
lady's husband kills the murderer (envy ticked off the list).However at the same time in shooting the serial killer Pitt's character
becomes wrath. Just a simple observation but every other sin was
punishable by death except this one?And isn't "wrath" more of a seething anger spanning a great amount of
time? Here it was an instant knee-jerk reaction. It was instant
retribution, not "wrath" as far as I'm concerned.He probably should have shot him in the balls or something to foil the
plot. Instead the serial killer is given satisfaction.And Target - sorry - Paltrow was murdered ... what was her sin? See,
major plot holes. It doesn't stand up.It is okay, just illogical and dreary and overrated.

******
1 July 2013
9
Major spoilers below.....Have we all gotten so used to it that we have become naive? Se7en is
David Fincher's second film, after his under appreciated take on the
Alien franchise. This is a film I have watched when I was around 14 and
I thought it was excellent, does it hold up now that I am more mature
and I have a better understanding of how things work? Definitely.The film's screenplay was written by Andrew Kevin Walker and honestly I
have no idea what other films he has done aside from 8MM, and I haven't
even seen that film yet. So I came into this thinking whether I would
still be excited and thrilled in my second viewing. I was not as
surprised or excited this time as I knew the major twist and the events
leading up towards it. Back then, I only really viewed the surface of
the film and in subsequent viewing, I discovered the depth of this film
and this depth is the reason I remained hooked until the end. The story
is an up and coming detective who got transferred to this city where
crime is apparent and is hoping to be involved in bigger and more
serious cases. He is then paired with a soon to be retired detective to
solve a case of murders relating to the seven deadly sins. The
screenplay really speaks the abundance and triviality of sin that
litters the streets. It gives us these two characters that clearly
represents the sins and virtues in Catholicism. David Mills' character
clearly represents a person who is among the people who falls within
sin and yet we root for the guy. The character Mills throughout the
film has fallen within the seven sins that John Doe is trying to show,
either done subtly or obviously. William Somerset on the other hand
represents the virtues that counter acts sin. I see this film as a
character driven film, you follow both these two detectives to a
definitive ending that will not only entertain the audience but also
get them thinking. Thematically deep but also a surprising thriller.This was my first David Fincher, and in my first viewing I found the
film to be unsettling due to the themes and tone, granted I was also 14
who loved light and heart-warming films, but as I have gotten older and
mature I have become a little more stoic and have gained an interest in
cinema. With this interest, I have started to explore different films
and such, then I got to a point where I watched a few under Fincher's
direction and started to enjoy them, especially Fight Club and Alien 3,
so I decided to watch Se7en again and started to understand his ability
as a filmmaker. Se7en is definitely a dark film but this was coming off
the heels of Alien 3, which was also a depressing turn to the Alien
saga, so it wasn't much of a big change but his direction in this
feature was much more controlled and understood. He definitely knew
what he wanted to do with this film and knew what he wanted to convey
to the audience. Fincher's confidence here is not something that is
found in his later acclaimed films but he did enough to convince me in
his sophomore attempt.I haven't seen the other films that Darius Khondji have worked in but
his photography here is definitely moody. It's appropriate and
unsettling. The tone is the major thing I picked up on his photography
and it was definitely supported with dominating shadows, icy cold
colors, and the overpouring rain. This tone and darkness is something I
don't find in a Fincher film until The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo.Pulsing drums and deep horns fill the score by Howard Shore. It aided,
especially in the third act, in creating that thrilling atmosphere with
the rising tension that constantly grasps the audience. I am familiar
with Shore's work, notably The Lord of the Rings, The Aviator and Hugo,
so I had a bit of expectation for his take on this film. It was great
and can't think of anything that would improve it.The film moves in such a pace that doesn't feel rushed. It takes its
time with its character development and tension building. The third act
is definitely the Coup de Grace as it fantastically grips us as it
leads to the conclusion that will have you shocked and amazed.As this film, to me, was character driven, it had to have actors who
can give great performances. Both Pitt and Freeman give their all and
have successfully stamped and defined their characters. Pitt, though,
is the one I have to give more props to as he played a role that was
sympathised but also unlikable. The supporting cast is underplayed to
dominate the presence of these two leads but their performances were
great.The film has some dark themes and is very unsettling at times but
should not be dismissed as it is also an entertaining piece of work and
definitely a notable effort in Fincher's catalog.

******
12 June 2013
10
SEVEN was one of that rare handful of movies that didn't punk out in
the end- it followed through, all the way to its bitter end, and was
rightfully hailed as a modern masterpiece for having done so. From top
to bottom, SEVEN delivered. I happened to be working at a video store
(which, for lack of a more appropriate name, I'll call Lackluster) and
I heartily recommended SEVEN to those browsing for a weekend's
diversion. Alongside me at Lackluster worked a beautiful young blonde
who eventually came to like me (naturally). She asked me one evening
what I wanted for my upcoming birthday. Being a bit of a wise-ass, I
replied that what I really wanted, more than anything, was a human
skull to display on my mantle (which I didn't even have). The next
thing I knew, she brought a battered cardboard box into Lackluster and
laid it before me. "Happy birthday," she said, and walked away. I
looked at the box, which was fairly heavy (I hefted it), and I noticed
that there were dead WEEDS sticking out of it. I stuck my courage to
the sticking place and opened the box. Inside was a human skull. A hole
in the top of the skull revealed an empty brain cavity; the INSIDE of
the brain cavity was lined with criss-crossing red and blue veins. I
politely thanked the girl for such a thoughtful gift and declined it.
She left with the box that night and I never saw it again- but, the
very next day, a news item caught my attention: a local graveyard had
been "vandalized" the night before and "one of the graves had been
desecrated." There were no details, but I'd wager that the desecration
involved the removal of a corpse's head. Just goes to show you: be
careful what you ask for...

******
12 June 2013
10
Se7en is, for me, not only the best crime thriller I have ever seen,
but the best film I have ever seen as well. The acting is first class,
with Will Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and David Mills (Brad Pitt),
providing perfect foils for each other, whilst still maintaining a
believable relationship. Kevin Spacey is spectacular as John Doe. The
city, constantly drenched in rain, is mysterious and gloomy, providing
the perfect setting. The idea of a killer using the 7 deadly sins as
his MO is original and harrowing, and it all falls into place
perfectly. I'm a big advocate of films that don't have happy endings, and Se7en
fulfills that part of me marvelously, as, whilst Doe is killed, that is
what he wanted to happen the whole time, causing Mills to complete
Doe's puzzle, as he became wrath. Kevin Spacey deserves a mention entirely separate from the rest of the
review, as he depiction of John Doe is the best of a psychopathic
killer that I have ever seen anywhere. Despite the fact that he only
appears towards the end of the film, we are constantly shown the
results of his handiwork and this creates a huge amount of tension for
the moment we finally meet him.All in all, the acting, plot, setting and payoff in this film is
spectacular. My favourite film of all time.

******
9 June 2013
9
Ever seen hell on earth? Probably not. David Fincher shows the closest
thing you shall ever see with his depiction of a story of a serial
killer meting out punishments to the people committing the seven deadly
sins within an anonymous American city with its perpetual silvery rain,
the scantiness of light and the constant depressing atmosphere that
lurks over your shoulder all the time with an air of melancholy all
around. This movie makes for a gory, gloomy and an uncomfortable watch
but mind you the mystery is ever so riveting that it keeps you glued to
the edge of your seats till the very end. David Fincher, Andrew Walker
and Darius Khondji have created such a masterpiece that this movie can
rightly be called as the worthy successor to the "Silence of the lambs"
in regards to the serial killer genre. The movie has a neo noir feel
due to the scant usage of light and the constant rains in this unnamed
anonymous city. The storyline goes into a realm of its own, where a
serial killer is on a carefully planned elaborate spree that dwells
into an analysis of a mad man's mind who is convinced that he has been
sent on this earth to bring to the attention to the common people that
all they have been doing on this earth is sins , and the way he chooses
to catch the attention of the commoners is by punishing the sinners in
ways he feels fit. Morgan Freeman plays William Somerset a veteran
soon-to-retire detective with his partner David Mills being the
idealistic but rash rookie played by Brad Pitt. They meet up on a site
of a murder scene, a pictorial description of which may force many of
us to throw up, and then from there on unfolds a saga consisting of
crime unimaginable and so gory that to say it is savagery would be an
understatement. The detectives get embroiled in the case and each day
brings to them crimes of such barbarity that makes you think of the
killer as an equivalent to Satan himself. First comes Gluttony with an
obese man forced to feed until he bursts. Second is greed with a lawyer
forced to exact a pound of flesh from his own body. Third is Sloth with
a drug addict tied to his bed for over a year. Fourth in line is Lust
with a hooker brutally murdered while being involved in the act. Fifth
in the cycle is Pride with what seems to be an actress who has been
horribly disfigured and is given a choice to call for help and live a
life with the mutilation or to commit suicide thus saving grace. And
the last two sins Envy and Wrath make up for the most exciting ending
to a story I have seen in my life. The brutality of the punishments
captured on screen, (dare I say) in my opinion could have only been
done by Fincher and Tarantino, which each murder scene being
exponentially more brutal than the previous. The background score is so
perfect in maintaining the horrific atmosphere that it's a compliment
to the work Howard Shore himself has done over the years , the
diversity of work he has done made him the perfect choice for the
composer of such a film. The acting by the leads Morgan Freeman, Brad
Pitt and Kevin Spacey only consolidates the class in which they stand,
amongst the greatest of our times. All in all, this movie is classic
modern horror with a twist/finale to die for. The movie, from the
sensory assaulting title sequence to the nerve wracking finale goes for
your gut and makes you feed on it all the while constantly gnawing on
your brain until you give up and starting believing that the place you
live in is truly an infernal cesspool. This movie leaves you reeling,
emotionally and mentally and you have a feeling of having been robbed
of mental peace. I leave you with this advice - Try not to expect it to
be a comfortable viewing.

******
16 November 2012
9
'For the wages of sin is death but the gift of God is eternal life in
Christ Jesus our lord' Romans 6:23.I have seen this movie before and I knew that this was a good movie but
I did not realise how good it was until I watched it again recently,
and it is not just the outstanding performances of Brad Pitt, Morgan
Freeman, and Kevin Spacey, that make this movie brilliant. In fact,
just because you load up a movie with talented actors does not mean
that the movie itself will be any good, but rather the it is essence
and soul of the movie that will inevitability make it stand out from
the many other offerings that we are bombarded with on an almost weekly
basis.The movie is set in a city, and it could be any city. Some people have
tried to determine what it is but it is clear that the location of the
film is not important, but rather the content of what the film is
about. The city is where people congregate and it is the place where
all of the filth of society ends up. Whenever we squeeze fallen
humanity into a place that is so crowded we are always going to end up
seeing the worst of it. I now live in a city, and the one thing that I
can say about the city is that it sprawls, both outward and upward, and
in this city people do not stand out. It does not matter whether you
are a freak or a different, because you are in the city and people in
the city simply do not care.This movie is also about sin and not only about how sin destroys, but
how people do not care about sin, and even if you were to do something
about it, the effect upon the city as a whole would be so minute that
it would hardly change anything. In fact I suspect very few people
walked out of this movie thinking, 'hey, sin is serious, I better stop
doing it'. I don't think that this was the film's purpose of it though,
but rather to open our eyes to the idea of what it around, but to also
confront ourselves with the powerlessness to do anything about it.Take for instance what Freeman says about the job of a police officer.
It is not to catch bad guys, in fact that very rarely happens. Instead,
it is to collect evidence and to store it away in the hope that maybe
one day it will be used to convict somebody. Then we consider the
discussion in the car near the end of the film, where Brad Pitt
confronts Kevin Spacey with the meaninglessness of what he is doing. He
asks him whether he is sent by somebody, and what he intends to do by
killing innocent people, and while it may be a media sensation for a
couple of weeks, people will end up forgetting about it and will end up
going about their own business.Let us now consider the murders and how they relate to the sins that
these people commit. We have the glutton who gorges himself on food to
the point that he becomes so obese that he cannot even leave his house.
He was going to die anyway, however Spacey simply sped it up by forcing
him to eat himself to dead. Simply somebody who was that fat was doomed
to live a short life anyway.As for the lawyer and the model, they were already dead on the inside,
as Spacey indicates. While she went about continually making herself
beautiful in an outward sense, inside she was rotting away and dying.
The lawyer may have lived a wealthy and comfortable life, but it was
through keeping murders out of gaol and on the street. He had no heart
and no soul, he simply did not care about what he was doing, only the
money that he was making doing it. While I would disagree with that to
an extent, that is not the purpose of the movie.Finally, there is the idea about the lust, in that it was not just the
prostitute who died, but the man purchasing the services that died to.
He was forced, at gun point, to kill this woman, and this is going to
be with him for the rest of his life. The woman sells her body, and he
succumbs to his lust by buying the services, and neither of them see to
far ahead to realise that it will destroy them, if not physically, but
mentally as well. However, the real crook, seemed to be the pimp, that
simply did not care about who came into his establishment 'lot's of
people come in with backpacks, it could be anyone'.Does this movie make you think? Probably not, but I suspect that the
whole point of the movie is that it sits in the back of our mind, and
it is the type of movie that we will come back to again and again.
Maybe it shows us that there is no hope in the world, no way of making
a difference, but in the end, this world is a world without a God, and
in that sense, is as far from reality as we could get.

******
25 October 2012
8
After the mess known as the third instalment of the beloved Alien
franchise, Mr Fincher didn't exactly have a 'first rate' reputation in
Hollywood. Thank God he proved us wrong! Se7en is a thrilling movie with a climax that keeps you thinking about
the movie, days after the initial viewing!The plot makes the movie
completely re watchable, making this defiantly worth a purchase and
great addition to your home video collection. First of all, this movie
is dark, literally and figuratively! The cinematography just suits the tone of this movie. Two cops, both
keen on catching their man, are on a chase after a array of murders
specifically resembling the seven deadly things. The deaths are never
shown on screen, just the mess left after really keeps the audience
thinking (the movie is very thought provoking) and how disturbing they
can be, really does make the audience think twice about your own
morals! The acting is top-notch with three amazing actors portraying
the main cast- Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey and Brad Pitt, but Kevin
Spacey steals the show in his memorable performance.Even the supporting cast is brilliant! For me what really brings the
whole experience together is Howard Shores brilliant score. I mean who
didn't get goosebumps just watching the intro credits! I' d highly recommend you watch this film!

******
20 September 2012
10
It's a shame not everyone knows about 'Se7en', for some reason it
hasn't become a popular classic like others. It really is a fantastic
film that proves that films don't need to contain lots of gore to be
scary.The acting overall is great; there are few films where everyone
performs well but this is one of them. Morgan Freeman gives one of his
best performances here and contributes a lot to this film. Brad Pitt
does perform well but it certainly isn't his best. Towards the end, his
acting seems too forced unfortunately during the scenes where his
performance is the most crucial. Kevin Spacey is fantastic here; he
really does make you shiver. His creepy performance here is definitely
his best. The script is really clever yet the story is so simple you wonder why
someone hadn't come up with the idea of a killer killing people for
each of the seven sins before. Each murder and each motive surprise you
especially the films' climax. It has become one of the most famous
endings in history and has been spoofed by huge numbers of shows. I
won't give the ending away of course because I think everyone who
watches 'Se7en' for the first time need to watch it with no clue as to
how it ends to truly understand the greatness of this film.Overall, 'Se7en' is a fantastic film worth watching. It's really
violent but doesn't contain as much gore as expected and sets a good
example for quality film making without the need for excess.

******
25 July 2012
7
Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow and Kevin Spacey star in
this 1995 crime thriller. William Somerset (Freeman) is a veteran
detective who is about to retire. He gets one last case that involves a
crazed, serial killer who uses the seven deadly sins to murder his
victims. He works with rookie detective, David Mills (Pitt) on the
investigation and William decides to stay longer until he's solves it.
Paltrow plays David's wife, Tracy and Spacey plays the mysterious
killer who calls himself, John Doe. This is a good film, Morgan and
Brad are great together and Howard Shore's score is great as usual. I
recommend this.

******
13 March 2012
8
Two very different films about serial killers ruled Hollywood in the
1990s: 1991's SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, featuring Anthony Hopkins as the
infamous Hannibal 'the Cannibal' Lecter, and this, David Fincher's
masterpiece about a pair of New York cops tackling a perverted killer
inspired by the seven deadly sins. SE7EN is an extremely stylish film
that ended up inspiring dozens of copycats like RESURRECTION and THE
BONE COLLECTOR: all of the films share a gritty-grimy style with
depictions of unflinching violence, seedy backdrops and sleazy
characters.Whichever way you look at it, SE7EN is a great movie. It has a pair of
sterling performances from relative newcomers Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman, playing stock clichéd characters: the young rookie and the
older, wiser cop on the verge of retirement. Both Pitt and Freeman
overcome their characters' conventions to make them believable people.
Their quarry is Kevin Spacey, giving one of his traditionally disturbed
portrayals as a sociopath with no inklings of good or evil. Much of the
film is made up of police procedural elements, with the investigation
of crime scenes, the following of leads and at least one fantastic
chase sequence halfway through in which Fincher's direction is top
notch. It's also blessed with a gruesomely dark twist ending which
stays in your head forever afterwards.For what it's worth, I'd pick SE7EN over SILENCE every time.

******
12 February 2012
9
This film is one of the best serial killer films I've seen. It is a
very dark film and it is nearly always raining.. I loved Morgan Freeman
and Brad Pitt in this, two different characters who seem to get along
more and more as the film goes on. Its also nice to see Gwnyeth Paltrow
playing the role of Brad Pitts caring loving wife in it. This film is
not for the faint hearted as there are gruesome scenes and shocks. The
film is about two detectives going after a serial killer who kills his
victims based on the seven deadly sins : gluttony, lust,
sloth,wrath,greed, pride and envy. It seems pretty simple, but as the
film goes on you become more interested in the plot and want to see
what treat the killer has left this time. When the killer is revealed
is my favourite scene in the movie, you don't see it coming and it's
brilliant. After the film had ended, I had so many emotions going
through me. I felt depressed, shocked, amazed and even some happiness.
This film shows the brilliance of David Fincher and if you have not
seen this film go and watch it.

******
11 February 2012
9
I consider David Fincher's Seven to be a precursor/forerunner of the
'torture porn' phenomenonmore specifically, the Saw movies: it
utilises the grunge aesthetic that has become synonymous with such
films, features a self-righteous villain who delights in playing
gruesome games, revels in the extreme nature of its victims' suffering,
and delivers an uncompromising and rather preposterous finale that is
designed to hit like a kick to the gut.However, despite being the impetus for what has become one the most
over-saturated and tiresome of sub-genres (as well as that irritating
trend of replacing letters in a title with numbers), I don't resent
Fincher's film one bit: it's just too good to hold a grudge againsta
masterpiece of the macabre that admittedly requires a little suspension
of disbelief to be truly effective, but which is so well crafted and so
horrific that to do so is both easy and worthwhile.Fincher is able to successfully brush off the debacle that was Alien 3
and prove himself to be the accomplished movie-maker that many
suspected him to be. Without studio interference, he successfully
delivers his visiona visually stunning chiller that delivers thrills,
chills, grisly horror aplenty, without resorting to cheap scares or
overtly explicit gore. Despite its gruesome subject matter, Se7en
doesn't rely on relentless splatter to shock: the mere suggestion of
what has occurred possesses the power to repel, with brief glimpses of
the murder victims' corpses offering just enough grisly detail to
satisfy the viewer's morbid curiosity.An ingenious script from Andrew Kevin Walker, impeccable performances
from its amazing cast (including a particularly outstanding performance
from Kevin Spacey), and what what has to be one of most harrowing and
unsettling endings in cinema, all adds up to one hell of a fine movie.

******
7 May 2011
7
Last Thoughts First: Cinema attracts all forms of oddballs, don't it?
Why anyone with any notion of The Bible or sin sits through a film like
this is anyone else's guess- but who has time to play games? ME! People
who could need a film like this to tell them anything about the world
we live in or confirm what they already believe are only useful to this
movie in, hopefully, having bought a ticket or copy of the home video.
I on the other hand am such a freeloader- I first saw this on VHS,
borrowed a copy from someone else who paid the rental fee. And this
morning, I watched it on DVD- again, not my copy and I've never paid to
rent it.The Movie: Morgan Freeman is always intelligent and thoughtful, that's
his gimmick. He's the real star of the movie, yet he doesn't get top
billing because he isn't white- like international heartthrob, Brad
Pitt. Pitt is always obnoxious and annoying, even when he's playing a
whiny vampire. I'm not much of a fan of either. They're both still
doing their gimmicks. But only one of them annoys me. Surprisingly,
it's the one who plays the guy who's always on some kind of sugar rush
/ caffeine high. Does his character Mills have ADHD or something?
Either way, I don't care. I get it, he can't control himself and
expects others to do it for him; he needs to shut up or simmer down.
They're the hard-boiled detectives covering the case of The 7-Sins
Killer - my nickname for the guy, not something you hear in the movie.
The movie's too busy with actor gimmicks. Gwyneth Paltrow plays the
same sweet-hearted pretty blonde chick she always is. That guy who's
always on The Military Channel actually plays a fairly perceptive chief
/ commissioner type- although he has the single dumbest line in the
movie (the "Southern Baptist upbringing" quip). Kevin Spacey plays a
fanatic, which we all know he's good at. And Scrubs' John C. McGinley
plays a skinheaded SWAT team psycho, with the movie's single nastiest
line of dialogue (do you remember what it was?).The Moral of the Story: The world sucks and nobody cares. And Brad Pitt
needs to learn more about subtlety. His attempts to bull viewers into
paying more attention to him rather than Freeman are feeble and if this
movie caused any of his "Sexiest Man Alive" admirers to sleep with one
eye open... Good. But, I doubt what the killer said rang very true.
About what he does being studied and followed for years. Instead, it
was just hollowed out for brainless copycats like Saw (2003). If people
were smart enough to appreciate the killer and his work in the context
of his mission... why does Saw currently have a 7.7 rating on IMDb?
Sounds like he had just a little too much faith in the human race.

******
11 January 2011
9
I remember wanting to watch Copycat starring Sigourney Weaver and
seeing this as a trailer before and thinking it looked good. I left
Copycat thinking it was OK and then saw this a month later. I came out
and thought wow what a movie. I have seen it numerous times since and
it is such a great film on many levels. Brad Pitt's descent in to
despair, Morgan Freeman seeking solace from a nameless city he hates to
live in, and a simply ingenious set of murders by a crusading yet mad
serial killer played sublimely by Spacey. I love the fact that even the
dialogue is not clear along with the story so it is impossible to know
what is to happen next. In fact over the next couple of days, I think I
will watch it again. Brad's best film.

******
14 November 2010
10
Se7en takes the tired and clichéd serial-killer genre and twists it on
it's head. Literally. Andrew Kevin Walker wrote a doozy of a script and
the acting by a stellar cast is superb. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt
match each other scene for scene and Kevin Spacey's performance is
nothing short of outstanding. He is chillingly believable as the
morally ambiguous serial killer. The only one who disappoints is
Gwyneth Paltrow, her character not given much time to develop due to
not receiving much screen time. The final scene between the three male
leads is electrifying. The cinematography is bleak, raining in almost
every scene except the last. The denouement is shattering and leaves
one feeling very unsettled. Despite there being little to no violence
on- screen, it is extremely dark and chilling. This is a movie that
will leave you questioning the morals of the world around you. David
Fincher directed a movie that is nothing short of a masterpiece. One
that demands multiple viewings.

******
23 April 2010
9
"Se7en" is by far the second best serial killer movie ever made in my
opinion. The first being the multi acclaimed "Silence of the Lambs" and
the third being "Henry: Portrait of a Serial Killer"."Se7en" is the kind of movie you can't stop watching. Since the opening
sequence you know you are into a slick, atmospheric experience that is
backed up by excellent acting, a solid plot, great dialogs, and
suspense.You won't get a more interesting plot in a serial killer film. But it's
not everything about the killer known as John Doe. The story behind the
life of the rookie detective and his relationship with the veteran cop
that is about to retire is excellent. They make the perfect on-screen
duo of the 90's Horror/Thriller genre.I enjoyed big time the accurate Criminology and Criminlastic facts such
as techniques, theories, and more detailed situations.We have the chance to experience the film through the killer's eyes and
understand his bizarre motives. Sure, the whole serial killer
investigation is interesting enough to keep you watching, but also the
personal situation between the young couple is what carries the film on
it's back.The movie is not for those who have a weak stomach as the killer's
motives are very explicit when shown. We have access to them via
post-murder scenes when our heroes investigate them.The Direction is excellent. The movie is atmospheric but elegant at the
same time. When big budgets are squeezed, you get great movies like
this. The cinematography and art direction are outstanding and truly
create an insecure place where you can actually feel there's a serial
killer on the loose. The acting is superb. Morgan Freeman is one of those versatile actors
who can master emotions and control the pace of the whole film. He's
great and delivers plenty of emotions. Brad Pitt demonstrates he's not
only a good looking guy but also a fine actor. Gwyneth Paltrow
convinced me as the tender young wife who supports her husband's
dangerous work. R. Lee Ermey is always a delight to watch!The ending is truly shocking. It will leave you sad, mad, shocked, and
probably scared.I will remember "Se7en" for these scenes: The opening murder scenario,
when both detectives meet on a rainy day, the shocking ending,
Paltrow's conversation in the cafeteria with Freeman, John Doe's
introduction in the police station, the shaking apartment, etc.This is one of the best 90's movies. No doubt about it.

******
30 October 2009
10
this film is so beautifully made. it has to probably be the best
mystery thriller of all time. director David Fincher is nothing short
of a magician masterclass behind the camera. he has made other classic
masterpieces such as Zodiac, Fight Club, The Game, The Curious Case Of
Benjamin Buttons, Panic Room and the third instalment of the alien
series. he really is one of the greatest directors ever and i hope he
keeps making gems like these in the future.Brad Pitt (Fight club, Inglorious Basterds, Meet Joe Black) who is a
Fincher favourite seeing as though he's been in a few of his films
plays a cop who has transferred to take Morgan Freemans (Shawshank
Redemption, Lucky Number Slevin, Million Dollar Baby, Unforgiven) place
as he is retiring at the end of the week. but before Freeman's hope to
end the week nice and quietly comes to a halt when a murder is
committed. Pitt and Freeman both go to investigate and eventually they
realise that the killer is murdering his victims based on the seven
deadly sins (gluttony, greed, envy, sloth, wrath, lust and pride). the
film is so amazingly put together. one little problem with this which
isn't really a problem to be honest is that the film should be on
longer, its a classic film that really should be on for at least two
and a half hours instead of only being on for two. the music and the
camera angles are so stunning. some of the scenes are very shocking and
will leave you thinking for many days after watching it. the chemistry
of Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt is nothing short of remarkable. they
both should of won Oscars for there roles in this. Gwyneth Paltrow (A
Perfect Murder) plays a good role as Pitts girl. one role that really
was breathtaking was Kevin Spacey (The Usual Suspects, American Beauty,
Superman Returns) as the killer. he should of won an Oscar for that
role too. the ending to this film has to be one of the most shocking
and most powerful i've ever seen. it really hits you like a wave and
doesn't let go until the end credits. what a masterpiece this movie is.i'm so glad this film is in the top 30 films of all time because this
film is definitely worth it. if you love this film you should try
another Fincher classic called Zodiac. Zodiac is one on the greatest
serial killer films i've ever seen. this film is going to remembered
forever and not many films will surpass its brilliance.......... A
MASTERPIECE............ 10/10............j.d Seaton

******
10 October 2008
9
There is no one who could argue against the fact that if you put Brad
Pitt, Morgan Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, and Kevin Spacey together in a
film, it is going to be a hit.I have watched countless hours of murder mysteries in movies and TV and
have read innumerable books, and there is no finer murder/serial killer
story than this one.It has every element that one would look for in this type of story and
it delivers with a punch to the gut that is visceral and lasting.This is one of those films that you can watch countless times and never
tire of.

******
10 September 2008
10
**spoilers ahead* nothing new... really... but the movie just have 2
surprise endings.. and one of which - kind of fake surprise -is in the
middle of the movie. this is the citizen kane of serial killer genre -
and how they can have that ending get pass the studios must be a great
story - maybe it's in the DVD commentarie(S)On 2nd or 3rd viewing though, you see that the production value is
fairly basic. John Doe's room is kind of sparse, you really don't see
the diary books in closeup except for the opening. I wished the camera
angles, perspectives, and close-up are much more personal; and have a
POV, but the story seems to be have multiple POV, and you're an
observer. So the "10" given here is for 3 things : the 2 surprises and the ending
to be official. Sort of like the book :"There are two errors in the the title of this book"- subtitled : so what are the 2 errors?

******
26 May 2008
10
Sensational.Amazing.What else cam i say?Superlatives do not do Se7en
justice.It marked a return to form for director David Fincher after
Alien3.Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are superb hunting the crazed John
Doe serial killer.When i first watched this film i went straight to the
door to make sure the lock was secure.It messed with my mind. David
Fincher said in an interview around the time of its release that he
wanted to make a film that scarred people like Jaws. He certainly
achieved that in my book.The film lingers long in the memory after
viewing it and that is a rare thing in todays throwaway Hollywood
disposable film production.I own Se7en on DVD, its not a film that i
would ever watch to cheer me up but its one i'll keep going back to
remind me how great films can be. 10/10

******
12 September 2007
8
Of course, thrillers and horrors, which "Se7en" is top of the line, are
not everybody's cup of tea. And many people probably would find a film
such as this just simply too gory, too violent, and too graphically
realistic to find appealing or even compelling. "Se7en" was not
intended to be a movie for the soft-stomached, and maybe even made to
twist knots in the strong-stomached. Whatever the case, it is exactly
what it was intended to be: a horrifying and hair-raising thriller. But
what it also possesses is excellent craftsmanship and creativity. All
of the traits needed for a great film are present in "Se7en". I'll
admit that the first time I saw it, I couldn't get some of the scenes
out of my head. Not just because they were so brilliantly shot, but
also for being so disturbing. But this did not make me dislike the film
any. Sure, I got chills up my spine, but I saw it as an excellent
example of film-making."Se7en" utilizes the basic concept of most cop movies. Two detectives,
quite different from one another, try to track down a serial killer and
bring him to justice. But "Se7en" takes this basic plot idea and
expands it a little further to give all of the characters a purpose.
Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman were both magnificently flawless in their
performances and gave us the impression that we were looking at real
cops, not just two popular actors performing on screen. That's what I
really look for in a movie with big stars on the cast list. I see if
the characters are used to create good performances and characters, not
just to lure people into the theater. And the serial killer, whose
identity and performer I will keep anonymous for those who have never
seen "Se7en" turned out to be one of the most brutal and above all,
cunning serial killers and what's more, his actions had a purpose in
the film. Instead of just simply murdering people for the fun of it or
even having a personal problem with them, he bases his attacks on
victims who he feels have committed a crime that society does not feel
is worthy of a penalty. The effect of limiting his screen time helped
to increase the effect of his initial appearance, very much like the
shark from "Jaws".The set designs in the film are amazing. We are never told on screen
where exactly this city is located. Maybe it's Los Angeles or New York
City, but whatever the case, the city is displayed as one of the most
grimy and dirty cities you'd expect. We seldomly, if ever, see a clear
blue sky while under the tall skyscrapers. There's smoke in the air,
it's raining almost all of the time to give enhance the appearance of
such a dirty environment. And then we think about the characters, one
of whom has lived almost all, if not all of his life in such a place
and wonder how he stayed so long."Se7en" is a magnficent example of 90s film-making. Perhaps it is a bit
flawed in a few aspects, such as too much dialogue sequences that seem
to drag on for a while longer than they should. But it works out as a
thriller and horror film on an epic scale. Some people will find it too
disturbing for them, but for me, it's a very well-done film with an
unexpected and brilliant climax."Ernest Hemingway once wrote "the world is a fine place and worth
fighting for" I agree with the second part." -Morgan Freeman as
Detective William Somerset

******
15 August 2007
10
This is quite simply one of the best pieces of film making in cinematic
history. I watch a lot of horror/serial killer flicks and for the most
part, 99% of them all follow the same formula. Se7en on the other hand
goes by no script ever presented before. This is a totally original,
imaginative and twisted tale that keeps you on the edge of your seat
the entire way through. It is quite simply one of the most well written
movies I've ever seen and ranks as #3 on my all time favorite movies. The ending is like nothing I've ever seen before and totally blew my
mind. You never see it coming, but it is sheer genius! A true must see,
movie.

******
7 August 2007
9
A detective (Brad Pitt) moves to the big city (possibly New York, but
never stated) just as another (Morgan Freeman) is retiring. For the
last seven days of the retiring detective's career, they must track
down a serial killer who bases his killings around the seven deadly
sins. Gwenyth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey, John C. McGinley, and Richard
Roundtree also appear.This film starts out with an amazing Nine Inch Nails remix of "Closer"
over some spooky credits that will play a part in the film later on
(but you probably will not make the connection until your second
viewing). This sets the tone for a mid-1990s film of nihilistic, dark
despair. Unlike another mid-1990s film ("Empire Records") that focused
on the pop aspects, this film is for all those who saw the dark side of
the decade.That nihilism is evident, and really summed up the 1990s for some (and
ushered in the peak of Tim Burton's career, along with industrial music
and films like "The Doom Generation". John Doe speaks of the general
"apathy" of the world, which came to the forefront in the 1990s, I
think, with Marilyn Manson and ultimately ending with Columbine when we
were shocked back to our senses. If the 1990s were a color, it would
have been black.Visually, the film is stunning, even in the death shots. The gluttony
victim, which starts the movie out, is a corpse you will never forget.
The acting here is quite good, perhaps among Brad Pitt's best work.
There is an odd moment or two, but overall he is flawless. This is
likely the film that solidified his career for the next decade (more
than "Thelma and Louise" ever did). Morgan Freeman is great, but when
is he not? His mere presence exudes genius.As far as serial killer dramas go, this one is as well written as
possible. Another one, "8MM", from the same writer, is also pretty
good. But I think this one takes the cake. Other cop dramas with Morgan
Freeman ("Along Came a Spider", for example) are also well written. But
again, this takes it. The blend of action, humor, dark grisly death and
literary intelligence is just superb in its smooth mixture. What other
serial killer is using Dante and "Paradise Lost" as a guidebook? Can I again say the supporting cast is good? Paltrow almost never fails
to impress, and this is one of her more vulnerable roles -- a dainty
flower in a hurricane. Ermey is his typical authoritarian self, but
more reserved here, to his credit. And Roundtree is at the peak of his
career, as well -- this may not be "Shaft", but I think he comes across
as a serious actor here in a way he never has before.As anyone will tell you, this film is ranked in the top fifty for a
good reason: it is a stellar film. If you do not mind a little blood
and plenty of curse words, you will love the intricate and well-woven
plot here. I recently watched the film again -- possibly my fifth time
now -- and it only grows better with repeat viewings. In short:
Delightfully sinister!

******
23 July 2007
9
Watched that noir horror movie Se7en on the weekend because I was stuck
in a household without many commercial-free alternatives. I normally
don't go for grisly films, especially those with Brad Pitt, but since
it had such a good write up on rottentomatoes, and I am such a bad
movie theater goer these days, I couldn't really pass it up - even if
it meant sitting through almost 30 minutes of commercials as is wont on
New Zealand TV. I thought it was rather wonderfully done, despite the
grisliness. It's not often that you get Dante and Chaucer as major plot
references in Hollywood films these days. (If you don't want to watch
the film, there is a highly readable film script). You can't but admire
the tenacity and the complete obsession of John Doe with his project. I
had him down as an Asperger's Syndrome guy right away but I was unsure
about his priorities. I mean, we can all empathize with getting a pound
of flesh back out of a greedy lawyer, but why did the prostitute have
to die? She wasn't the one guilty of lust, her johns are and they got
away with only a knife dildo strapped to their groin. And why did he
think sloth the worst of all the deadly sins? The victim took a whole
year to die a particularly slow and nasty death - much worse than Jesus
in The Passion - while the others were dispatched relatively quickly. I
still can't take Brad Pitt seriously, but Kevin Spacey has surely
deserved his place among the screen's worst baddies.

******
13 July 2007
8
After the failure of "Alien 3", David Fincher held his breath for three
years and made a new start with "Se7en". His signature style of
direction is all over it. This is one of the best serial killer movies
ever made.The plot explores the extreme pitch-black side of the human psyche and
was entirely the creation of one writer. Andrew Kevin Walker,
conceived, a disturbing story of a serial killer who murders all his
victims in the style of the seven deadly sins."Se7en" is definitely the film that kick-started Fincher's career. Had
he made "The Game" right after "Alien 3", there would have been no
"Fight Club", or "Panic Room".Pitt and Freeman deliver great performances. 8/10

******
3 June 2007
10
warning:if you choose to watch this movie,know that you will enter on a
dark and twisted journey.David Fincher directs this film,which concerns
a serial killer who executes people,using the seven deadly sins as
justification.though there are some horrific and graphic images
here,there real genius of this movie is it's implied horror.this movie
will leave you with an impact long after the end credits have
rolled.David Fincher directs this intense psychological suspense
thriller.Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt play two detectives on the trail
of the killer.Freeman plays veteran Detective Lt. William Somerset,on
the verge of retirement,after this case.Pitt plays rookie detective
Detective David Mills.Kevin Spacey also stars in a powerful performance
that is mesmerizing.this is one of the best movies of this genre i have
seen so far.if you are not affected by this movie,i'd be surprised.for
me,Se7en is easily a 10/10

******
2 June 2007
10
The best movie I have seen in my life. It combines perfect enthralling
storyline and the depth that made me stop and think about my own life
and how I actually live it. Am I a sinner? Yes. But the number of my
sins became less after this film. They say there are two all-time best
thrillers  Seven and the Silence of the Lambs. I like Silence. It's
great. But it can not compare to the Spirit of Seven. To the Atmosphere
and Style of it. David Fincher will always stay as a creator of a
timeless masterpiece. He is one of the best directors of the present
time. No doubts about it. Morgan Freeman is Morgan Freeman. As for Brad
Pitt, I guess in this film he is much more than Brad Pitt. And every
Kevin Spacey's line is worth listening again and again. I wish they
would make a sequel. A story of David Mills serving time in jail or
William Somerset continuing his work as a detective? Whatever. I would
go to see it anyway. As well as a huge number of other people who love
Seven.

******
22 May 2007
9
I wasn't so sure what to expect, either a very brutal and a disturbing
movie or an intelligent and an exciting thriller. Well, it was brutal
at parts, disturbing at times, but it still managed to be an
intelligent and an exciting thriller all the way through, a true
diamond for the thriller -genre. The movie tells about two homicide
detectives, an experienced veteran detective Somerset who's about to
retire from his job and another detective Mills, a rookie who's
supposed replace Somerset after he's retired. They soon team up
together when they find out that there's a serial killer who commits
his murders by choosing victims who each represent one of the Seven
Deadly Sins. A perfect plot for a thriller indeed.I just mentioned about the plot being perfect for a thriller, but does
the screenplay manage that perfection? Oh yes, it does. The screenplay
(written by Andrew Kevin Walker) is absolutely amazing, along with the
whole storytelling. The whole movie is exciting and thrilling
throughout all the way from the beginning till the end by not making
one single stop or telling any irrelevant subplots. It focuses on the
main theme, the whole progress of solving a crime in a very detailed
way, making it undeniably one of the best thrillers ever made. Another
thing mentioned above is that it was brutal and disturbing at times,
but it still doesn't take it over the top. I could describe those parts
as being important for the film itself. By showing these brutal things
it makes you alert and sort of scared, and really makes you despise the
unnatural murderer who's behind the horrible crimes. You really start
to live the movie itself, you want to catch the criminal and make him
pay what he has done. That is because the absolutely brilliant
storytelling the movie has, also giving it a very good flow which
causes the 2 hours go in a blink of an eye. That is what a real flow
should all be about, making a 3 hour long massive epic movie seem like
only a 30 minute short film. That is what "Se7en" manages, a flow
that's just so good it's a real pleasure for eyes to see.The directing is close to excellence and it is lead by David Fincher
whose work I will most certainly be observing in the future, as I was
so pleased on the result he managed with "Se7en". Fincher sort of
follows the whole story as it should, translating the screenplay on the
screen in a very successful and an entertaining way. The movie also got
nominated for an Academy Award back in 1996 in the category of Best
Film Editing. To be honest, I immediately noticed how detailed it
actually was, how it made that flow even better scene after a scene. It
makes the whole movie more immense and stirring, backed up by the great
cinematography which gives the movie that dark edge it needs. The
music's just gorgeous, building up the tension and making your heart
beat very fast when there's these highly intensive scenes, giving the
whole movie that final touch. It is composed by one of my favourite
composers Howard Shore and to be honest the music is very much like
Shore. I can't describe it more precisely, but if you're familiar with
his work you know what I'm talking about.Starring Morgan Freeman as detective William Somerset and Brad Pitt as
detective David Mills a thriller couldn't ask more from the lead
actors. Both role performances are outstanding and both actors are very
convenient in their roles. Morgan Freeman happens to be one of my
favourite actors of all time and he's indeed one of those actors you
just have to admire because to me the man hasn't done one single bad
role performance in his career. Freeman is very convincing as detective
Somerset, giving the character that Freeman -edge it needs, being wise
and witty, a perfect mentor. I must admit that Brad Pitt also happens
to be one of my favourite actors and as detective Mills he does a
superb job, making the character what it's all about, the one with the
looks, being fierce and serious. Both of the characters have this very
realistic depth in them. To me Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt were one of
the best pair teams I've ever seen on the screen, they just compliment
each other's performances so well it just almost makes me shed a tear."Se7en" is all in all an amazing movie. Surely one of the best
thrillers I've ever seen. It's intensive, immense, exciting, detailed
and thrilling, just what all thrillers should be like. Everything seems
to click in this film; Brilliant screenplay, directing close to
excellence, great characters and even better role performances,
intensive cinematography and music that just captures the whole essence
of the thriller -genre. Despite the fact of it being somewhat brutal at
parts it really doesn't matter in the end, it still isn't that
tasteless over the top violence the horror -genre seems to have, so you
shouldn't even worry about what I said about it. I'm not saying it's a
movie suitable for children, I'm saying it's a movie where even the
brutal and disturbing scenes are made with a good taste and a classy
style. I'd give it a 9.5/10, but as that is impossible it has to
satisfy with the more than deserved 9. All this gives you an absolutely
guaranteed motion picture experience, it does it smoothly and it does
it with style. A thriller among the best.

******
17 May 2007
10
1991: Jonathan Demme's The Silence of the Lambs shocks the world, gets
almost unanimous praise from critics and audiences alike, and wins five
Oscars, proving serial killer flicks can be more than just a
sub-category of the thriller/horror genre. 1995: David Fincher, still
scarred by the mixed reactions to his first film, the underrated Alien
3, unleashes Se7en. The latter wins no Academy Awards, but people are
so impressed/disgusted/terrified by the ferocity and bleakness of
Fincher's vision it actually manages to make Demme's work seem rather
tame. So uncompromising it is occasionally hard to watch, Se7en paints
a disturbing portrait of madness no other film has been able to match.Ironically, none of the gruesome murders in the film occur on screen:
what we are shown is merely the aftermath, which is more than enough to
upset the weak of stomach. It sure as hell upsets William Somerset
(Morgan Freeman), a police officer who is about to retire but has to
solve this last, horrific case. Helping him with the investigation is
the edgy David Mills (Brad Pitt), a young hothead who wants to put the
killer behind bars and make sure he suffers as much as the victims (the
killings are based on the seven capital sins). Unfortunately for them,
this guy is not someone you catch that easily: John Doe (a name usually
given to unidentified corpses) is a cold-blooded, calculating
psychopath, and once he unveils his big project, nothing but pain can
derive from it.What distances Se7en from most Hollywood thrillers is the consistently
dark, nerve-cracking mood: while the average shocker has some kind of
redeeming trait in the end, Fincher decides to go all the way with his
unflinching study of the human psyche, leaving no room for hope or
salvation. As repulsive as they may look, Doe's murders are actually
little more than the premise: the really bad stuff happens after-wards,
and even the most skeptical viewers will probably gasp in horror as the
film reaches its almost unbearably bleak conclusion (the kind of ending
late-night pub discussions were created for).The unsettling atmosphere is also due to the performances, Freeman's
understated sadness being the ideal counterbalance to Pitt's brooding
rage (a side the actor took to sublime levels in his other
collaboration with Fincher, the splendid Fight Club). But it is Kevin
Spacey (there's no use in not mentioning him, since by now everyone
knows he is in the movie before they have even seen it) who truly
leaves a mark, in the role that, alongside his Oscar-winning turn in
The Usual Suspects, set the bar for every other villain to have been
created since. He may not be on screen for much time, but then again,
neither was Anthony Hopkins when he played Hannibal Lecter for the
first time. The difference is, John Doe is so merciless and sadistic
even Lecter would probably be afraid of running into him.In the end, some people might not be able to watch this film; some
might even refuse after reading a summary. But those able to stomach it
will see not only a very cruel thriller, but also a compelling example
of everything that's generally missing in Hollywood nowadays:
film-making has seldom been so bold and fearless.

******
3 May 2007
10
Se7en is an excellent thriller. Sure, it might be a little bit
over-stylized and the ending is not quite as logical as it seems to be
at first, but none of that disturbs the experience of watching this
film.Every aspect of it is superb, the writing, the actors, the editing, the
sound, the music, the direction.I am not going to repeat the plot yet again.I just want to point out what makes this film so special: It stays with
you. After the first viewing, the images are burnt into your head, the
ending leaves you drained and broken and you will think about it for
days. Even though the effect wears off after repeated viewing, you can
always remember the way you felt after your first experience with this
movie. it is so strong that you can even remember it if someone just
mentions its name. It is the kind of movie of which you never forget
where you saw it first, who was with you and what it was like. I
watched it in a cinema 13 years ago and can still remember the exact
mood of that evening.This, in my opinion, is the greatest accomplishment a film can achieve.

******
27 April 2007
9
ONE: original and well-built story. Initially, "Se7en" is a story about
two detectives who investigate on a peculiar serial killer. This
murderer gets inspired of the seven deadly sins to choose his victims
and their punishment. Just a reminder, the seven deadly sins are:
gluttony, greed, sloth, wrath, lust, pride and envy. The summary is
well enough to convince people about the originality of the story.
Scenarist Andrew Kevin Walker builds a script that hooks and never
exhausts itself during the full two hours that the movie lasts. The
movie is full of surprises and plot twists and reaches its paroxysm at
the very end with an astounding, exploding and almost-miraculous climax
that has already become legendary and which reflects the atmosphere and
the ideology of the story in an adequate way.TWO: the main actors. "Se7en" also works because of its two main
actors. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt both deliver extraordinary
performances. Freeman is Detective Somerset, ready to take his
retirement, while Pitt is Detective Mills, who has been hired to take
on Somerset's job after the latter leaves the homicide section. The
most striking aspect about both characters is the chemistry between
them. Sometimes, we see that they like each other and sometimes, it
appears that one of them is about to jump on the other one. Pitt is by
far the best of both actors with his detective with a boiling and
impatient attitude and with methods that are too radical to Somerset's
taste. If there's another actor that deserves to be mentioned, it's
Kevin Spacey who plays the mysterious killer. He can't prevent himself
from saying that he acts for the good side and he pretends to be an
example to follow. But he nevertheless remains a sadist and he's one of
the most horrifying killers in cinema's history.THREE: horrible images. For those who love horror movies, they will get
well served with the pictures that they'll see. Even if none of the
murders are portrayed on screen, the aftermath is horrible anyway,
mainly because of the nauseating pictures shot by the crew of director
David Fincher. In fact, the committed murders are so horrible that it's
not even necessary to look at the corpses to feel repulsive sensations.
The only thing that's needed, it's for somebody to tell the murders and
the listener will certainly get grabbed by an impression of terror.FOUR: the cinematography. Apart from its images of horrifying murders,
"Se7en" also impresses by its general cinematography. The title
sequence is catching and the sinister music that comes along sets the
table for the general atmosphere of the film. The lighting belongs
without a doubt to a modern-era film noir, putting emphasis on the
darkness of the unknown metropolis shown in the movie.FIVE: its vision of the world. "Se7en" isn't only a movie about a
sordid murderer. It's also a movie having a pessimist vision of the
world, where nobody is good, nobody is fine and everybody is bad.
That's a vision which doesn't look like any other that was seen before
in Hollywood. The only movie similar to "Se7en" that I've seen is "Taxi
Driver". In the city that is shown, it's always raining, it's always
dark and sinners move into the streets. Despite the fact that Spacey is
a sadistic and insane killer, the fact remains that he's the most
philosophical character of the lot and he wants to get sure that the
viewers don't leave the theater with a smile upon their faces. And it's
precisely the movie's objective. And even if the killers gets himself
killed at the end of the movie, Fincher manages to make it look like
it's not an happy ending. This pessimism is also present in "Fight
Club", which is better than "Se7en", but not by far.SIX: its description of police work. "Se7en" is also remarkable for its
accurate description of the police world, more specifically the
homicidal section. Pitt and Freeman, as well as their colleagues, look
like real police officers and not actors. We really could feel that
we're in a real investigation instead of a fictitious story. We visit
many places and we assist to the use of sophisticated techniques. SE7EN: redemption for David Fincher. Overall, "Se7en" is a powerful
movie that charges like a locomotive and it wants to be sure that the
viewers don't leave it unscathed. It really is one of the most striking
thrillers of the 90s and it's a great example that Hollywood isn't
necessarily synonymous of censure and respite. It's also a redemption
for David Fincher who was only known at the time for the disappointing
"Alien ³". From now on, Fincher could show that he was an exceptional
filmmaker and he kept going with other masterpieces, such as "Fight
Club", "Panic Room" and "Zodiac".

******
19 April 2007
9
It wasn't good....It was great!!!! remarkable performances,Morgan
Freeman at his best,simply brilliant!!! Gwyneth Paltrow doing a role
like few women would have succeed in this type of movies,and Brad Pitt
was pretty good too(despite not liking him...)I fell the need to glue
my eyes to the screen,this movie filled me up right from the
beginning!! fine acting,fine plot,great effects,the timeline sequence
of every event was completely flawless,and why not? Everyone should
learn something about their morals with this movie,even the more
obvious lesson, being obsessive in order to avoid the seven sins may be
a sin itself. And when a movie teaches you something to make you
evolve,and at the same time you enjoy and spend some quality time I
think I can say that the goal of the movie was accomplished,they have
set up the bar very high,but still,they managed to live up to the
hype...which makes this movie a classic...1996...It seems like I saw it
yesterday...

******
8 April 2007
10
I think it is unusual that while the other great film of this kind of
style, The Silence of the Lambs, won the main 5 Oscars, Se7en received
only 1 nomination and no wins. While Silence of the Lambs is obviously
a great film and is more thrilling than Se7en, I just find Se7en so
much more interesting. Enough comparison, heres why I think Se7en is
one of the best films ever made.David Fincher doesn't show you any of the bizarre killings during the
film, instead showing viewers the crime scenes and photographs. This
gets you really involved in the film, as you form your own gritty
mental images of what has happened. The script is fantastic, the
murders are bizarre yet ingenious. The killer is a fascinating
character. Kevin Spacey asked not to be credited for his role, as he
thought people would not be concentrating on the film properly and
waiting for him to appear. His performance, although relatively brief,
is every bit as good as Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt.The setting David Fincher has used for his unnamed metropolis is
excellent, using shadows, dark lighting and narrow alleys to create a
dark and dingy place where evil lurks, the perfect setting for this
storyline to unfold.The twist ending is fantastic. Along with Fincher's other masterpiece
Fight Club, the twist gives it an extra edge and makes the film better.
Se7en is by no means a horror film, but the gruesome visuals and
especially the ending make it actually scarier than most horror films.I wouldn't recommend your first viewing of Se7en to be 2am in the
morning like mine, but any other time I would recommend it as strongly
as any other film. 10/10

******
24 January 2007
10
This film has everything, action, excitement, thrills, love, death,
gore, you could not ask for anything more. Saw 1 comes close as the
plot line twist is also amazing but for me this film has started of an
era of amazing films, just as Hendrix started the amazing guitar front,
Se7en has started a great time in our lives for films. An excellent
peace of acting from both main characters (Freeman and Pitt). So
different as to what sort of roles Brad Pitt usually takes on. A
classic usual weird and strange vibe from Mr Spacey as well. The way
that the pot really does make sense in its bizard way. I would not
change anything in this film at all.

******
17 January 2007
9
Seven is about two detectives, one old school, and one new school, who
are placed on a homicide case together. Things start to get very
strange as the killer turns into a serial killer with a definite
pattern. After the inevitable whining between the new partners, they
start to actually do some good work together. The murder themes are the
seven deadly sins and each murder is executed according to one of the
sins. Some good special effects and really disgusting scenes make this
film not one for the kids. I've watched this film several times because
each time you pick up more visual effects. They finally capture the
calm and cool killer who plays on the younger detectives frailties very
well pushing all his buttons while the old guy tries to keep things
from escalating. The twist at the end is well worth the rest of the
film. If you don't like sick and disgusting mutilations, stay away from
this film.

******
28 December 2006
10
With this movie and 1999's "Fight Club", David Fincher cemented his
status as *the* most visually creative director of the 90's, and one of
the most original, inventive and compelling storytellers working in
Hollywood. If "Fight Club" was the ultimate theme park ride for
repressed white collar slaves, "Se7en" is the haunted house. While not
a horror movie per say, it is infinitely more frightening, emotionally
scarring and disturbing than anything that George A. Romero, Dario
Argento or Hideo Nakata could possibly offer.From its first frame, "Se7en" sets its tone with Fincher's bleak
visuals, moody weather and Howard Shore's slow, atmospheric music (you
won't believe this is the guy who would go on to make the unforgettable
Lord of the Rings score). It's a visual masterpiece, throwing you into
an anonymous, dark city which seems to be the Nirvana of the dregs of
society. In the middle of the city's violent everyday chaos an
invisible John Doe has set a horrible plot in motion, his goal to
punish seven unrelated people for their crimes, turning their own sins
against them (Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Pride, Lust, Envy, and Wrath).
Working methodically, patiently and intelligently, Doe builds at his
murder masterwork, piece by piece, slowly drawing police detectives
Somerset and Mills into the web. Somerset (played brilliantly by Morgan
Freeman whom I usually detest) is the hardened, cynical veteran who's
about to retire, Mills (Brad Pitt, exceptionally good) is the rookie
who's troubled by his own naive personality and hot temper. The
"unlikely partners" thing might sound clichéd by now, but trust me, you
won't even notice. What makes the movie so compelling are the fantastic performances from
a diverse cast, an utterly unpredictable, frighteningly sadistic plot,
intelligent scriptwriting by Andrew Kevin Walker, and David Fincher's
superb direction, which is unlike anything you've seen before. Fincher
shows an uncanny ability to keep the viewers at the edge of their
seats, creating, through the use of visuals and music alone, an angsty,
forceful sense of unease which lasts until the film's shocking climax.
Anyone who thought Brad Pitt was all good looks and no talent will have
to take it back after seeing him convince beautifully as Mills, and
Freeman's character is, for once, not the sugar-sweet know-it-all he's
typecast himself as. Gwyneth Paltrow is also good as Mills' wife. But
it is John Doe who leaves the lasting impression - the uncredited actor
(whose name I won't mention, in tradition with the movie) gives a
monotonous yet completely spellbinding performance and you find
yourself understanding and sympathizing with his motives far more than
you'd want to admit. Se7en is grisly, sick and depressing, although most of the horrific
violence is only implied, never shown. However, the aftermath of the
murders - especially the revoltingly sadistic Sloth - is often enough
to make you lose your lunch. This is a feel-bad movie and it's proud of
it. You cannot watch it expecting another ho-hum, by-the-numbers
thriller in the vein of, say, "The Sentinel". "Se7en" is depressing,
frightening, shocking, fascinating, original, and it features enough
talent acting-, direction- and script-wise to fill a hundred Sentinels
or Domestic Disturbances. Bring some friends with strong stomaches and
watch it - if you dare. But make sure you'll be able to sleep with the
lights on.

******
27 December 2006
10
What we have is is why cinema was created. To take you and entertain
you and to create emotions... and this along with what I call
breathtaking acting, is what Se7en is all about.Bradd Pitt is his 2nd best acted film (1st being Kalifornia)... and
Morgan Freeman being his usual outstanding self.The standout for this film is it's incredible atmosphere... dark, dingy
streets, pouring with rain 24/7, dirty bulding and people... perfect
for a nutt case serial killer to "punish" people...Also, it's the only film I can remember that is disgusting/shocking
without actually showing anything... you don't see any of the murders
take place so it doesn't just turn into some run of the mill slasher
film etc.

******
18 December 2006
10
This very good film is about Detective David Mills, a new detective,
and and his partner, Detective Lt. William Somerset, who is about to
retire, working on a case of a serial killer using the seven deadly
sins for his motive.The first person to die is a person with the sin, gluttony. The
aftermath of the "kill" is very disturbing. That's basically the word
that would describe all the other kills in this film. This film is a
very good thriller. In fact, it's one of the best films ever.Both Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman gives great performances, including
Gwyneth Paltrow and Kevin Spacey, played by the killer, although he
shows up almost through the last half of the film.Just like Saw, the killer wants to punish those who are bad. For once,
we have a killer we agree to, or at least I do. Like many thrillers,
this film has this great ending. This is a smart thriller. There's not
a lot of action. It's just your usual detective story.If you like a very smart thriller that will make you think, without
making you look stupid, with great performances, this movie will do.

******
18 December 2006
7
Okay, maybe I'm giving this a 7 because I saw "Fight Club" before
"Se7en". And maybe also because I'm not so keen on thrillers.Anyway, I liked watching it. The characters are cool, the plot is tight
and sharp and it sure has its moments. Hell, it made me read Milton and
Dante.But what shall I say...it's simply not as big and cool as "Fight Club"
is. Okay, it doesn't want and it doesn't need to be that. But if you
wanna top up the content of a thriller with some critic on the society,
it's just natural to be compared with "Fight Club". And this battle has
a clear winner.Others than that, the movie has a beautiful cast, leaded by two of the
best actors of all time, Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey. But also
Gwyneth and Brad, both none of my favorite actors, are decent.It's an enjoyable, nice movie, with a predictable ending, some of the
worst imaginable deaths and a Spacey beside "American Beauty".

******
7 December 2006
10
Se7en is one of my all time favourite films. You cannot fail to be
completely drawn in by the thrilling story of two cops on the trail of
a sadistic murderer using the seven deadly sins.Morgan Freeman is a brilliant actor, but Brad Pitt also shows his
strengths rather than just being a pretty face! Director David Fincher
unleashes a horrible reality of a dangerous - but also clever - serial
killer, who doesn't care if he is caught or not.Gwyneth Paltrow is watchable as David Mills' (Pitt) wife, but the real
star of the show is Kevin Spacey as John Doe. He portrays this part
superbly delivering such depth into the character you can actually see
into his terrifying and gruesome world.A final nail in the coffin brings with it a great ending, which sends
even more shivers down the spine of those who have witnessed this truly
exceptional and groundbreaking film. Terrific.

******
19 November 2006
8
Se7en is so interesting in a number of ways and for a number of
reasons. The first is simply that murder stories have an interesting,
visceral appeal which Se7en is able to put to use. To compound the
powerful drawing force of murder mysteries, Se7en has easily one of the
most interesting concepts in the history of murder mysteries, as the
killer bases his murders on Dante's Seven Deadly Sins. Each new murder
proves to be an interesting twist, since new details about the case as
a whole are revealed, and since there's no telling in what gruesome
fashion the murder will have been carried out. Indeed, the murders of
Se7en are symbolic yet extremely grisly, meaning that the movie will
both capture your attention and take a part of it for good.The movie is also given excellent performances by Morgan Freeman and
Kevin Costner. In the type of performance that by now seemed attuned to
his abilities, Freeman plays a muted, wizened character who has seen
his share of crap in the world. Costner also gives an excellent
performance, both in how he plays quieter parts well, and how he fills
the shoes of a serial killer perfectly. The best villains are the ones
who truly believe they are doing the right thing. Easily the most
chilling scene of the movie is the scene where Costner explains his
side of the story. As Freeman's character describes, the killings are
his "sermons" to the world, his teachings to a world with a skewed
perception of morality."Fight Club" director David Fincher brings his gritty, dark sense of
style to Se7en by filling the spaces with shadows and quiet, creepy
music. It becomes clear almost immediately that this unnamed city is a
place to hate--a dirty place full of prostitutes, beggars, and psychos,
a city that shares none of the glamour of the darkened "Sin City." As
the movie progresses, more and more you get the feeling that it's
getting darker, and that everything is spiraling out of control.That said, the movie has several very distinct weaknesses which easily
make it harder to watch, and harder to enjoy in principle. The gaping
hole in Se7en is named Brad Pitt--while clearly his character is meant
as Freeman's foil--an impatient, aggressive rookie--he ends up being
frustrating and obnoxious throughout the movie. There is an immediate
attraction to Freeman's character, and so with the introduction and
development of Pitt's character, Mills, you end up liking him less and
less. The vast majority of the profanity is used by Pitt, and it is not
used in an effective manner at all. Furthermore, Mills does not have
one interesting bone in his body, and Pitt's acting skills are MIA for
the duration. Pitt is obviously more attuned to unique roles, such as
Tyler Durden, and not roles requiring a typical type of acting.The ending, while interesting and definitely worthwhile in concept--and
on the script--is dumbed down quite a bit by the anti-climatic pacing
and Pitt's aforementioned shortcomings. But when you can ignore Pitt as
much as possible, and when Spacey's character is introduced, Se7en
proves itself to be one of the most interesting concepts in a long time
that is, for the most part, cashed in on.

******
16 November 2006
9
Some cinephiles give praise at the altar of Hitchock; others worship
Kubrick or Scorsese. Personally, I'm a David Fincher fan, and see him
picking up where they left off. Easily one of the most distinctive and
talented young directors to come out of the 1990s, he still remains
something of a 'cult' filmmaker, in spite of the $100-million box
office take of "Seven," possibly the best, most intelligent
serial-killer thriller ever unleashed on unassuming film patrons.What Fincher pulls off--and pulls off brilliantly--is a straight-faced,
serious approach to a concept that could have easily devolved into camp
or slasher-flick excess. On initial glance, the notion of a serial
killer who picks his victims according to the Seven Deadly Sins seems
like the type of tongue-in-cheek fodder for a low-budget '70s or '80s
exploitation item; even the tag line ("Seven Deadly Sins--Seven Ways to
Die") sets the tone for a straightforward, mainstream thriller.What a surprise, then, that "Seven" is the type of smart, suspenseful,
brilliantly-designed and -acted thriller that is nearly one-of-a-kind
("The Silence of the Lambs" follows close behind). Even more surprising
is how the film stormed into the public imagination after "Alien3"
(1992), Fincher's sour--and quickly forgotten--directorial debut. I
hadn't seen a former music-video director operate with such authority
in the realm of mainstream cinema (and, come to think of it, I haven't
seen one since). Nor have I seen a director take as many
commercially-averse risks within such a short career--"Fight Club"
(1999), despite a short theatrical run and polarized reviews, has
become to young-adults of today what "Easy Rider" was to the Flower
Children in '69.Granted, the amount of respect I've given "Seven" has fluctuated over
the years, and it seems that only now do I see it as being a
near-flawless masterpiece. At 15 years of age, it was just a
cool-looking 'horror' film--I couldn't latch on to Morgan Freeman's
dialog, and found Brad Pitt's cocky go-getter to be more easily
relatable; at 25 years, the deeply-entrenched realism of the script,
mixed with Fincher's grimy, urban-life-as-Hell visuals and the
jaw-dropping performances (not just from the principals--when was the
last time you saw notorious scenery chewer R. Lee Ermey in a small yet
serious role?). While Brad Pitt's performance might inspire hoots of
derision from some, he is actually pitch-perfect as the young,
idealistic Detective Mills--this isn't Brad mugging the camera with his
good looks for 2 hours; on the contrary, his counterpoint to Morgan
Freeman's worldly, jaded, and cynical Somerset makes the movie. And
once the killer is captured, these 3 characters share an entrancing
conversation within the confines of an unmarked police car; sure, we
get to hear the killer's explanation for his crimes, but it is in the
tones and reactions to what is said that the sequence conveys a
disturbingly chilling power. (It may seem moot at this juncture, but I
will say nothing of the killer's identity, save that it was a choice
casting decision that paid off wonderfully.) Even Gwyneth Paltrow, then
a fresh-faced, relatively unknown starlet, delivers a small yet
poignant performance as Mills' long-suffering wife; her scene in the
diner with Morgan Freeman is painful, culminating in advice that seems
especially dismal, considering what we've come to expect in the way of
Hollywood Happy Endings.Which brings me to one of the most surprising--and refreshing--aspects
of "Seven": the way in which it relentlessly plays against audience
expectation. Like the murderer's motive, this is not a film of happy
endings but lessons learned (in the harshest way possible). To those
who have seen the film--love it or hate it, that incredibly subtle yet
wholly grisly final scene is unforgettable, and truly shows that,
contrary to current horror trends, "less is more" (notice that all but
one murder happens off-screen).While I could gush at even further length about "Seven," I think I've
made my fanfare more than clear. It's an introspective, compelling film
that manages to mine terror and pathos from those daily transgressions
we all view as "common." And it established David Fincher as a director
of great (and continued) promise. Kudos.

******
16 October 2006
10
Detectives Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and Mills (Brad Pitt) are
investigating the death of a morbidly obese man and after the autopsy
realize that it was a homicide. A few days later another man is found
murdered in his office building with the word greed written on the
carpet in his own blood. On to something, Somerset goes back to the
home of the first victim and finds the word gluttony written on a wall
behind a refrigerator. He and Mills go to their boss and tell him that
whoever is committing these murderers is using his victims as
representations of the seven deadly sins and must stop him before he
finishes his plan.Se7en is one of the greatest films made in the last 15 years. It is the
only film to successfully mix Film Noir and Horror. The characters are
completely developed and the hellish decaying atmosphere is perfect for
the film. this is so original and innovative that you never know what
could happen next.Se7en is David Fincher's best film he as (and probably will ever) made
so far. He does a perfect job capturing the horror and gruesomeness of
the murders being committed and the two detectives struggle to solve
the murders and also the decaying enviorment which the film is set.
John Doe (kevin Spacey) has now become one of the most sadistic killers
in cinema history despite the fact that we never see him kill anyone.
He is played terrificly by Kevin Spacey although he does not appear
until the last half hour of the film. Another thing that makes this movie so great is it's unhappy ending.
John Doe leads Somerset and Mills out to a trailer where a U.P.S. man
delivers a package. Somerset opens the box and sees the severed head of
Mills's wife (gweneth Paltrow) inside. Mills then kills Jhon Doe and is
arrested. There is no other film that could ever compare to Se7en.
Others might try to emulate it but this is a once in a lifetime films.Buy the DVD as soon as you can.

******
14 July 2006
5
Disclaimer: I saw this on television; and while there was no written
indication that the movie was cut, due to the 2-hour (including
commercials) format of movies aired on television, up to 1/4 of this
movie may have been cut, which may have colored my opinion of it.This movie shows major flaws in directing, acting, casting, and plot.
In the end, to me only the incomparable Morgan Freeman held it
together, plus the dramatic ending gives it a lasting place in one's
memory. The whole, however, is riddled with flaws -- from, for example,
the silly over-dramatic cinematographic effects (lights flickering on
objects just because the director thinks that's cool, and dozens of
other annoying and distracting visual fancies), to the heavy-handed
extremely over-dramatic and loud music (when all that's happening is
that a rather routine crime scene is being investigated). This is the
sign of either a poor filmmaker or a thin plot; in this case, it was
both.The actors aren't all up to par either. Brad Pitt is off -- just out of
his early sex-god roles in Thelma and Louise, A River Runs Through It,
and Legends of the Fall, he hasn't quite entirely got his acting legs
to play a serious cop role yet, and although he does fine for the most
part, there are several "off" moments which spoil the flow and realism
of the movie. His inconsistency is distracting. Paltrow has not quite
got her chops yet either, and this is still the infancy of her career.
And Kevin Spacey seems greatly miscast -- Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal
Lecter) he is not. I kept seeing K-Pax or any number of other
cherubic-cheeked sweet-guy Spacey roles in this performance, not a
serial killer. Plus they used a very skinny, nimble, athletic stunt
double (who did not look at all like the very stolid, round-cheeked
Spacey) to play John Doe up till the time he is captured and we see his
face, which compounds the feeling that Spacey is grossly miscast. (If
that wasn't a stunt double, then the character was portrayed in two
personas too widely different to be totally believable.)But then again, Morgan Freeman is a Rock of Gibraltar and can save any
movie, even one with as many plot flaws, film-making flaws, acting
flaws, and casting flaws as this one. Although I found this movie to be
a disappointment (Silence of the Lambs it most definitely was not), in
the end it was worth seeing because of Freeman and because of the
intriguing ending.I'd say, if thrillers/suspense (especially disturbing ones) is your
genre, by all means watch Seven; if not, you may want to view something
else instead.

******
21 May 2006
10
Morgan Freeman makes this movie a standout. What a classy guy. A great
movie, well written and it shows in this movie. I plan on buying this
on a CD so I can listen to the book and see if it follows the movie.
When I first saw this movie, I was prepared to just see another
crime/mystery, but as you get into the movie, you see it is more than
that. Morgan does his best to not like his new young partner. He also
wanted this new, young partner to know he could not count on him being
around for long as he was getting ready to retire and just wanted his
days to be nice and quiet. The new partner did teach Morgan that young,
upcoming detectives can and does become a very good cover your butt
type of detective. I especially liked the part about Brad's wife making
a point of meeting Morgan, she went out of her way to do that.

******
18 February 2006
10
If it weren't for Grand Guignol and Italian Giallo there wouldn't be a
Jonathan Harris or a SILENCE OF THE LAMBS. If SILENCE OP THE LAMBS had
not reached the theaters, there would be no SE7EN. SE7EN in itself is a
step-up from its predecessor in art-directed crime thrillers that seems
to not only present the madness within society as much as thrive in its
murky waters.David Fincher, a man not known for making light comedies and feel-good
stories about life and love and hope plunges his viewers into this sick
world which at times seems on the verge of being eaten up whole by the
God of the Underworld. It's a place we could call home, but is not
inviting in the least. And worse -- there is a serial killer on the
loose. One of those monsters engendered by the city's own lapses into
dehumanization, who have a penchant with toying with his persecutors
because of the power this game grants him by default.We've seen or heard about his type before. Jeffrey Dahmer. The Zodiac
Killer. Son of Sam. Ted Bundy. John Wayne Gacy. The Green River Killer.
And of course Jack the Ripper, purportedly identified as Walter Sickert
by Patricia Cornwell's exhaustive investigation. More in the latter's
mode of killing but taking his murders into the realm of the bizarre,
the John Doe who detectives Somerset and Mills are trying to catch is
one of a kind. One who writes extensive passages which say a lot, but
inform rather little. One who reveals himself to be uber-intelligent,
almost pleasant, but twisted to the point of no return. One who commits
seven of the most unnatural acts against any human being. We recoil
because we never see them happening. Only the remains of systematic
torture.There is precious little to know about John Doe and maybe this is the
point David Fincher wants to establish. Despite his extensive
notebooks, or his rationalization as to why these murders needed to
occur there is little behind the soft-spoken man with the fey eyes --
and this makes him evil in an old-soul kind of way. All it takes is one
look to know this is something that has been with him for years. All it
needed was a progressive birth/abortion to see the light.Fincher is a master of mood, of dread. His previous film was ALIEN 3
which aside from its stand-alone nature from the rest of the franchise
and conscious cruelty had excellent lighting, the darkest of sets and a
feeling of overwhelming trepidation. It was an express elevator ride to
hell. SE7EN is, while more colorful, even bleaker. Fincher's New York
is an inferno of rain and emptiness closer to the 60s and 70s. Despair
dominates the movie all throughout: there is no escape. Had this film
been made in the 40s it would have out-done the best of film-noirs. His
quadrangle of leads could not be better: Gwyneth Paltrow as Tracy Mills
has several small scenes that indicate all is not well with her
marriage to Det. Mills (Brad Pitt) who due to his commitment to his job
has become estranged to her. Kevin Spacey plays John Doe like a man you
would open up to, which proves to be the Mills' fatal mistake. It's up
to Somerset, played delicately by Morgan Freeman, to bring some closure
into a film that otherwise would sink under the pressure coming from
its depravity.

******
27 January 2006
9
Se7en really raises the bar on the cop and serial killer movies. And it
is not like any other movies from it's genre. Director David Fincher
captures the essence of the dark, sinful world created in the mind of
screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker with every move of the camera. The
atmospheric look of this movie is outstanding. Hallways always have
this dark unsettling blackish tone and non-stop pouring rain occupies
the outside world.I think Brad Pitt gives his best performance up to date in this movie.
His not caring acting style really fits the character of the rookie
Detective Mills. But it is Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey who display
the best acting in this movie. Their characters have depth like very
few movie characters have. Morgan Freeman with his dynamic, brooding
acting style brilliantly portrays the intelligent, cynical Detective
Somerset. And the range of Kevin Spacey 's acting gives his character,
the serial killer John Doe, an extra dimension of depth.Detective Somerset knows the rules of his profession. And he tries to
warn the rookie Detective Mills from the dangers involved in it. But
Mills is too busy proving himself on his new position as a detective,
he doesn't really care for the advice. And as the numbers of the murder
victims grow Detective Somerset, who wanted to retire, changes his mind
and stays with the case to warn and help Mills. Somerset tries his best
to educate Mills on the subject of serial killers, he gives him books
to read on the case and tries to give him moral advice too. But in the
end John Doe, the serial killer, is the one who educates them both on
the subject of morality  screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker gives this
movie one of the most tragic endings I have ever seen on movie.Must see movie 

******
19 January 2006
10
Se7en is an amazing movie in so many ways. It is, in fact, my favorite
movie, and here is why:To me, the story and themes in Se7en are incredibly interesting and
well thought out. It is not so much the murderer, the killings, and the
police work that matter, it's what lies beyond these. The movie deals
with the fundamental ways with which we look at life. This is
demonstrated best by the diametrically opposite views of detectives
Mills and Somerset, respectively, but also the views of the killer, in
contrast to their views. Apathy is the key word here, while Choice is
another important factor, which is intrinsically connected to Apathy.
Apart from this, the story is masterfully told; it does not rush
anything. It takes its time to make the points it needs, which are
plenty, without seeming to add any superfluous elements. The technical aspects are pure genius. Not only is everything executed
flawlessly, but put together it all has a certain synergy that makes it
all seem, well, better than perfect, really. The cinematography is
excellent. Many of the camera angles are different, but not weird or
artsy just for the sake of being either of those. The visuals have a
sharp purity to them, and are incredibly clean. So clean, in fact, that
you can see the dirt and dust in the air at times (particularly in the
Gluttony crime scene.) Many scenes are somewhat dark and gray, for
instance all the rain, but it is shown so artfully, which makes them
incredibly interesting instead of just depressing. This depressing
motif is highly fitting to the themes the movie deals with, though, so
it is not at all out of place or misused, in order to try to just seem
artsy or dark. The sound and music is not just good, but so fitting and so well done
that it actually enhances the experience of the movie, something I feel
sound and music are supposed to do in movies  and not just in the
simple and cheap way tension music does it in so many thrilled and
horror movies. Both the sound and music go in and interact with the
visuals (or the other way around) on just about all situations in the
movie. Like the very first scene, where we see Somerset in his kitchen,
where the ambient sound actually goes in and gives us audio clues to
the surroundings and situation. Or the legendary (often since copied,
never outdone or equaled) intro title sequence, where the titles and
the gritty, almost evil visuals move and shake in sync with the
industrial grinding of Nine Inch Nails' "Closer". A scene standing in
stark contrast with that one, but no less interesting, is the Library
scene, with Bach playing in the back (until it slowly moves into the
front). It is an incredibly aesthetically pleasing scene, almost like a
fully fitting music video for one of the most soothing pieces of
classical music around. There are many other scenes that merit at least a page each of praise
on the audio and visual aspects, like the Lust scene, the Interrogation
scene, the Chase scene and the scenes from the movie's finale, but
there is simply not room for it here.The acting is also dead on. It is just so fitting that it becomes
great. Freeman has an aura of experience and intelligence over him, but
also a strong sense of having given up and resignation that often
shows, as the character is supposed to be portrayed. Pitt might not
have gotten equally appreciated with his effort, but living up to
Freeman is no easy task. I feel Pitt, with his impatience and visible
energy, does an incredible job, playing the diametric opposite to
Somerset, which in my mind is the exact way that character is supposed
to be portrayed, as well. The movie, I feel, leaves you stunned. It gets the point across better
than any movie I have seen, not just by cheap shock effects, but by a
deep, disturbing rumbling that culminates in terrible realization. It
does indeed get your attention by hitting you with a sledgehammer.As a final note, I would like to mention that the amount of gore and
violence seen in the movie is not great. Strangely, many people seem to
think so. They claim the movie was too harsh and violent, but when you
confront them with this, it turns out they only got this impression,
but didn't actually see anything. This, I feel, is a testament towards
the skill with which the director so expertly implies these things,
instead of going for cheap, visual thrills and shock effects by
actually showing all the gore. And that is why Se7en is my favorite movie.

******
7 October 2005
8
This thriller, that doesn't really thrill, is more interesting as a
character study and a dark expression of the 20th Century. The films
story is set over 7 days in New York where Detective David Mills, (Brad
Pitt), has just transferred, he is partnered with Detective William
Somerset, (Morgan Freeman). Over the course of a week a series of
murders occur based on the seven deadly sins; Gluttony, Greed, Sloth,
Pride, Lust, Envy and Wrath. The two detectives hunt the killer down
like prey only to discover that they themselves are the prey.Genius is not a word that I use lightly but it is an adequate
description of Seven. The whole film reeks of class and intelligence
with this quality exuding from its two main characters. Although polar
opposites Mills and Somerset provide an interesting combination with
Mills' impatient and impulsive mannerism's opposing Somerset's more
thoughtful and calculated actions. This pattern is used most subtly
with the films sound as Mills is always make some kind of noise whether
tapping a pen or talking inanely he clutters the silence that Somerset
appreciates so much.

******
15 May 2005
7
SE7EN Aspect ratio: 2.39:1Sound formats: Dolby Digital / SDDSOn the eve of retirement, a world-weary cop (Morgan Freeman) teams up
with his younger replacement (Brad Pitt) in the hunt for a monstrous
serial killer whose crimes are based on the seven deadly sins.Dark, gruesome shocker, with Freeman as a burnt-out cop struggling to
make sense of the horrors he has witnessed during his long career, and
Pitt as a headstrong character whose flaws lead to a devastating
climactic 'twist'. The drama unfolds in an unnamed city where goodness
and mercy have surrendered to human apathy, allowing a killer to fester
unnoticed, until his monstrous scheme overwhelms the central
characters. Andrew Kevin Walker's ingenious script works both as a
police procedural and as an examination of society's moral vacuum,
though the downbeat ending may strike some as too neat and cynical for
its own good. The movie is quite shocking in places - the killing
derived from the sin of 'lust' is particularly degrading - though it's
also quite playful in its own twisted fashion (note, for instance, how
the constant rainfall surrenders to bright sunlight for the horrific
finale), and Darius Khondji's elegant widescreen cinematography belies
the movie's grim subject matter. A triumph for director David Fincher
(following the misguided ALIEN³), this is as close as 1990's Hollywood
ever came to a 'daring' mainstream blockbuster, and nervous viewers are
urged to avoid at all costs.

******
4 May 2005
10
Seven was magnificent. I can't believe I didn't know of it until now.
My husband claims he didn't tell me about it because he wants to
protect me from "bad things", which is very sweet, but I am so
particular about movies that even something like a badly done "romance"
or "comedy" will upset me and lets not even talk about annoying
"kiddie" movies. I am rarely motivated to post a review of a movie: I
will only do so if a movie is exceptionally good, or (I won't waste
time on just an okay or mediocre or bad movie: those kinds of movies
are the norm) if I have been lead to believe a movie would be good due
to, say, excellent prequels and I ended up inexcusably let down by it.Seven delivers. I don't know how else to sum it up. I have read the
more recent comments of others and I am pleased to see quite a few of
you know what your talking about. The effects: the lighting, the sound,
music, the way the scenes and story was set up: pretty much everything
is executed perfectly. And because of this the actors are able to
exhibit their talents to the fullest of their capability.Morgan Freeman has this way of saying things in such a believable way:
he's a wonderful actor. Brad Pitt is extremely convincing and the
supporting cast is the icing on the cake as far as acting goes in this
movie. Everyone worked well together to make this movie great hence
lots of credit needs to go to the writers, editors, visual effects,
sound effects, soundtrack and overall vision of the Director (and I'm
sure there's more I've left out).To the person who criticized "Saw" for copying Seven: I had the
displeasure of seeing Saw before I even knew of this movie and I
thought to myself at the time: they could have done soooo much better
with this. And you are completely correct. Saw isn't the worst movie
I've ever seen, but it is quite bad, and maybe something for one to see
if one can obtain humor from bad acting (I like Danny Glover, but
unfortunately the movie was bad. And Cary Elwes was over the top in the
overacting department). See Saw everyone, if you're in the mood for
somethin' a little freaky, and aren't in the mood to take a movie too
seriously.Seven seems real. It's fiction but... believable. And it is tastefully
done, for being a movie about about killing, death, and dark things.
People get disturbed for varying reasons of their own. Silence of the
Lambs (again to the person who was writing about Saw copying Seven) is
excellent, but I don't watch it too often because I get too disturbed
by it. Seven is a little different because the movie sets it up so that
at least in my opinion, there is less of a sympathy factor for some of
the victims-SOME, I stress. I can't go into further detail without
risking spoiling the movie for anyone else who might be reading this
but those who have seen the movie, maybe you'll know what I mean. I
wholeheartedly recommend this movie for those who want to see a dark,
disturbing...profound and meaningful thriller.

******
18 February 2005
9
The film "Se7en", directed by David Fincher (Fight Club), is a stylish
thriller that pulls out all the stops to catch the audiences attention.
The wily veteran detective, William Somerset, is played excellently by
Morgan Freeman. He brings up the younger detective, David Mills,
surprisingly well played by Brad Pitt, who is not known for his role in
dramatic films. Later on, Pitt will work with Fincher in Fight Club,but
that is a different story. The two detectives are chasing a serial
killer who is committing murders according to the seven deadly
sins(Gluttony, Wrath, Envy, Pride, Lust, Greed, and Sloth). The deaths
and murders in this film are not too extreme, but they get the point
across. The plot and storyline is well planned and thought out. Gwyneth
Paltrow plays Pitt's wife. This is Paltrow in a smaller role and she
plays it well. But lets not forget how the title of my summary comes
about. The killer,named appropriately John Doe, is played maniacally by
Kevin Spacey, a sick and twisted Kevin Spacey who's in fine form after
The Usual Suspects and before American Beauty, both of which he won
Academy Awards for. Fincher shoots this movie flawlessly; the
camera-work is excellent, cinematography is good. And the ending is one
that is a predecessor for films such as Saw and The Bone Collector.
9/10

******
9 October 2004
10

I saw this film about 5 years ago when I was about 12 and never
appreciated it because I had trouble understanding it. I realized that
I wasn't really listening to everyhting that was being said. I saw it
recently and absolutely loved it. I love suspense thrillers that aren't
too complicated and perfectly paced. I wasn't a huge fan of Silence Of
The Lambs although it is a good film. The same applied with The Bone
Collector, which I thought was well paced but had a pathetic ending
with a stupid motive.This movie however is completely flawless. It has great Acting,
Directing, Writing, Editing and Photography. I won't delve into the
plot as I'm sure you know it. This movie never gets boring at all,
every scene is interesting and I think the script is one of the best
ever written. I am now a huge fan of Andrew Kevin Walker and David
Fincher. Morgan Freeman's performance just about stole it for me,
although Pitt and the supporting cast, and the killer especially, were
very good (I'm sure you all know who it is but I won't reveal who it is
so not to spoil it for anyone.)This movie is not particularly violent to be honest, it just shows some
very graphic bodies afterwards but nothing that is unbearable. The last
30 minutes are what really did it for me as far as suspense and
surprise goes. It is quite possibly the best ever twist i've seen in a
movie and it works perfectly. Everything that is said in the build up
to it by the killer comes true. It is so well-paced and done so it
doesn't give anything anyway and you'll be glued to the screen, like I
was throughout it. The most important thing about this movie is to
watch it when you don't have to leave the room or forget about what has
gone on previously. You must listen very carefully to it in order to
fully understand and appreciate it. When I saw it 5 years ago I didn't
appreciate it enough because I wasn't doing this.Overall, this is the best murder-mystery/serial killer movie ever made.
it definitely deserves to be in the top 100 movies on IMDb and should
be a lower number than 54. it should be in the top 10 in my opinion. I
keep changing my mind about my favourite film so sorry about that!
Anyway, It has everything needed to be perfect as explained above. Go
and see this film if you adore your mystery's or perhaps any type of
movie. You will not be disappointed.A definite 10/10


******
25 February 2004
9

This is a quick coment.This film is good.Not great, not "grand", but good. It has action, suspence (right to the end), and morgan Freeman fits the role
quite well.With a good plot and story but with an ending ultimutaly spoiled by Brad
Pitt's Terrible, terrible acting.Well worth a look at 7 out of 10.
 

******
30 December 2003
8
Very good thriller, in spite of Gwyneth Paltrow's involvement.I generally detest Gwyneth Paltrow in everything she's done. I can't
abide her presence and it is my personal opinion that she suffers from
a total lack of talent. However, Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt pull this
one completely out of the wastebasket, dusts it off, and sets it back
on the shelf.The story is very telling, the performances are completely
professional, the set designs are inspired, and the whole production is
darkly and eerily executed.You can, however, see Mr. Pitt's character from 12 Monkeys in his
character in this movie, as they were filmed very close to one another.You can see some of the schizophrenic mannerisms exhibited here, which
in no way draws from the character, nor does it draw from the finished
product. I found it rather endearing, in fact, as I enjoyed 12 Monkeys
very much.Freeman and Pitt work together quite well, after a slow and faltering
acceptance of one another, to lead you down the road which takes you
into the dark and noisome mind of a killer.All in all, not a bad movie. I'm very grateful that Ms. Paltrow's part
was small and almost inconsequential.I've just one question, though. What is with the fascination with
Christian legend, of late? There are thousands of ancient civilizations
out there which worshiped thousands of gods/goddesses.What is with this Christian obsession? While this is an original
screenplay, with creative and unique elements, due to its Christian
elements, it gets thrown right in with about a hundred other movies of
this type.It rates a 8.1/10 from...the Fiend :.

******
18 April 2003
7

Well acted, good thrills, just brilliant.  Not a bad thing to say about
this
movie.  What a true crime drama/thriller to keep you guessing.  Even when
the sadistic killer is "caught", the drama doesn't end.  I would highly
recommend this movie to anyone.  Good flick.  

******
14 September 2002
10

The TV was my babysitter when I grew up.  I know all the plots, all the
twists.  When a movie surprises me, it's a cheat, a fraud, a deus ex
machina.  Or brilliant.This movie is brilliant.  Not a slow moment, a gory movie that is not a
gore-fest, a shocking movie which does not rely on FX for shock,
plot-driven, character-driven, absolutely brilliant.  There are no loose
ends, no descents into cliche.  I thought that was where we were going: the
hard-bitten veteran sparring with, and eventually becoming best friends
with, the naive newcomer.  But no!I've said very little about the movie.  I don't want to give anything away. 
SEE IT!

******
21 April 2001
10

If I had the meer words to describe, I'd be the greatest writer on
earth...This is one of those films that you won't get the first time. You wont
understand the evil. The desperation. The philosophy. You'll think it a 5
or
6. But still you'll have this voice in your head telling you to watch it
again. And again. Just like that song you can't stop hearing, although you
know you hate it. And then it hits you. The ingenious. The brilliant acting
from Freeman and Peltrow, to Pitt and Spacey. It's like a whole universe
unfolding in front of you. The noir-style. The edgy dialog. The characters,
that are all in some sort of pain. The profound understanding, that nothing
is going to be alright. Ever.Fincher, your brilliance is divine.As if my 10 would ever mean anything....

******
16 June 1999
7

Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are an interesting study in contrasts for
this
dark probing movie.  Though parts of it are violent and gross the overall
message of sin is well done.
A movie that makes one think about
sin and who has the right to judge. 

******
2 April 2011
6
Well, I expect more for this film. Some people have compared it to
"Silence of the Lambs". Okay, there are some similarities, but Hannibal
film had a muuch creepier atmosphere and was frightening. Se7en is just
a regular police/investigation movie where the serial killer is smarter
than the rest of the world.Morgan Freeman sadly just repeats his characters over and over. He's
always the wise man, with wise phrases and very cult. That's so easy to
act; no need to train for the new character, just play himself.Brad Pitt's acting is average and the same as any American actor.But at least Se7en has some originality and seemed to be an inspiration
for nowadays' films like "Saw".

******
21 September 2007
10
My main comment is "Watch It", watch it and WatCH iT. I don't want to
say anything to spoil the fun so just run to your nearest video store
and buy it even if it cost you a hundred bucks, do anything to get you
hands on them, it is that good! I guarantee it. With my head! Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt kills in this film, kills! This movie is so cool
I'm afraid someone will really do it in real life.I'll just give you a very very brief plot of the story, no spoilers,
promise.2 detectives try to solve a homicide case, one after the other. Thats
all I'm gonna tell you, Watch it! NOW!

******
13 February 2006
10
Now don't get me wrong, I love Fight Club and will write a very
positive review of that movie sometime soon. However, to me, Se7en will
forever be the superior film.The plot, if you haven't seen or heard it before, concerns two
detectives. One is old and about to retire while the other is new and
fresh to the city. Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is
as grizzled a veteran as can be imagined, his lined, elderly face
folding into itself with the worries of life and the job in the city of
Los Angeles (I think), a place he regards as Hell on Earth and which he
is very happy to be retiring away from. Of course, like every cop on
his way out (in Hollywood at least) Somerset has one last case to face,
although it isn't his to take. Instead it's the property of a young
buck, Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) who initially treats it as
'just another nasty corpse,' in this case a man literally eating
himself to death. Of course, where director David Fincher is involved,
a tag like that is bound to be less than the whole story and, before
long, a second body is discovered.Further plot explanations will only spoil the rest of the film, but
stay put through the quiet, if edgy opening and you'll be hugely
rewarded. This movie crackles with menace and, even before we meet the
man responsible for all the carnage (Kevin Spacey's 'John Doe') you'll
have experienced some truly horrifying, terror inducing moments. The
fact that few if any of these are the product of screeching music or
artificial suspense is a fine testament to Fincher's skill and the
generally understated production of the film. Pitt isn't pretty,
Somerset is hardly a benevolent mentor and Gwyneth Paltrow (as Mills'
wife Tracy) is the epitome of be-trodden womanhood, someone whose
former carefree existence in some quiet little town outside of LA has
become a living nightmare inside of it.The cast really shine in this film, as does the director and just about
everyone involved. At no point during proceedings are you entirely sure
that another horror isn't right around the corner, this despite the
fact that the majority of the seven atrocities are seldom even shown on
screen. Fincher whets our appetite with almost graphic descriptions by
junior policemen at the scene and lets the camera play over the
locations of the murders just skirting the defiled corpses... but
seldomly are we given the full visual. This technique actually makes
the whole thing much more disturbing as your imagination is left to
fill in the gaps. A corpse on film is seldom unpleasant after you've
seen it once or twice. One tantalisingly close yet just out of sight
can haunt you far more! And when Fincher cheekily allows himself one
moment of surprise it bursts from the screen with all the greater force
because of his earlier restraint.In this movie the acting, the atmosphere, the direction, the music, the
plot and the pacing are all top notch and make this film a must have on
DVD. Any criticisms I have are limited to a sense that there is a
prevalence of style over substance in Se7en, something I think Fight
Club also suffers from. The minimalist outlook and constant rain all
make for a compelling atmosphere, but you only very occasionally get a
feel for how big the case is. Instead it more often seems like an
irrelevancy in the fast moving metropolis whereas, in fact, the murders
are meant to ignite a media frenzy that ultimately leads to the films'
incredible conclusion. But that is a minor quibble and one that you
must probably accept with all Fincher's work.All in all this is a fantastic movie and the perfect antidote to the
usual, asinine output from Hollywood (and since I'm writing this the
day before Valentine's day I feel particularly vindicated in saying
that!). Every cast member does their job perfectly, even the more
extreme outbursts of emotion being delivered in such a way as to appear
genuine, rather than the 'oh it's just an actor looking for an Oscar'
pitches that I often feel when I see a modern, 'worthy' film. On top of
that you seldom feel like your watching a movie. The director keeps
many of his usual tricks to himself this time, instead giving us more
of an insight into, rather than presentation of, three extraordinary
days in the lives of two ordinary cops (Somerset and Mills). This
understatement and holding back makes for a much better film and, while
Fight Club may be cooler, Se7en is superior.Therefore my recommendation is: if you haven't seen Se7en then do so at
the earliest opportunity, though be warned... you'll need a friend
close by soon after!

******
9 September 2005
10
Se7en is an amazing thriller that still seems fresh even after ten
years. The story revolves around two cops played by Morgan Freeman and
Brad Pitt, one of whom is ready to retire and the other is just
starting. Freeman and Pitt work great together and I was pleased to see
Brad in a movie where he isn't some charming bad boy like in most of
his movies. It's a nice change and I'd like to see him do more
characters like that. Freeman of course does a spectacular job as well,
but that goes without saying. Although the new cop/old cop pairing has
been done jillions of times before, somehow Freeman and Pitt manage to
make their characters different and captivating. The two, after a rough
start, become friends and a good subplot involving Gwyneth Paltrow as
Pitt's wife, emerges that is a nice respite from the grittier main
story, which of course later ties in with the main plot later, as in
every respectable movie.Of course, the real focus of the movie is not about our protagonists. A
serial killer (Kevin Spacey) has started a killing spree and chooses
his victims based on the Seven Deadly Sins, which are Gluttony, Greed,
Sloth, Lust, Pride, Envy, and Wrath. He chooses very creative fates in
which he fights fire with fire so to speak as he turns their Sins
against them. This is where the movie gets very graphic. The "Sinner's"
fates are both cruel and unusual. If you're sqeamish, stay away, but it
really isn't too bad compared to other movies. You never actually see
the murders take place, just the corpses and aftermath. (Which is bad
enough) This provides a nice balance that helps you focus on the
detectives and their search for the elusive culprit behind all this as
opposed to the story just being an excuse to show you grisly murders
like the Saw series. Most of the movie revolves around the cops finding
the various victims and trying to make sense of the antagonist's
tantalizing hints and clues. The villain is very mysterious, and is
definitely an interesting head case. He remains an enigma right up to
the end, but luckily you do get to see how his mind works near the end.
Spacey does a spectacular job portraying this mysterious figure when
he's on screen, but sadly he's only really in it during the final part
of the movie. But this isn't really a complaint. It's an interesting
step out of the norm to not fill the screen time with the villain
calling the heroes every five minutes to let him know that he hates
them and they'll never prevail against his evil plan. The entire movie
has a very dark and gloomy feel to it. Just about every inside scene is
dark and outside it's usually always raining or cloudy.Se7en is a great thriller that should appeal to everyone except for
those who think that all movies should be fairy tales and should end
perfectly. The plot runs along at a good pace and has one of the
greatest (not happiest) surprise endings I've ever seen. I never saw it
coming even as it was happening. Perhaps what I like the most about
Se7en is that it is not just a gore fest. It has a feel of intelligence
and even makes statements about the evils in our society and our
tolerance of them. Pretty daring for a thriller. With it's dark mood,
creative characters, and spectacular plot, Se7en comes highly
recommended. A 10 out of 10.

******
30 January 2005
9
Every time the name David Fincher is mentioned, people I know start
talking about "Fight Club" (1999). It seems like everybody has nothing
but great things to say about that film...just like "The Matrix" (1999)
and "The 6th Sense" (1999) which came out the same year. They're all
good films, but they have never grabbed me the same way as they've
grabbed "everybody" else. "Fight Club" tries to hard to be something it
never manages to become, in my opinion. But let's not get out of line.
Let's talk about another film by David Fincher instead. "Se7en"....now
THAT'S one special film.This is one of those films that I feel is best to watch, when knowing
as little as possible about the plot, but I can keep it to a minimum:
William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and David Mills (Brad Pitt) are two
detectives, an old veteran and a young newcomer, that's being hired for
a murder-case. This turns out to be a case of a serial-killer, and the
killer's victims is people committing one of the seven deadly sins:
Gluttony, greed, sloth, pride, lust, envy, and wrath.Serial-killers, detectives, thrillers...crime-films like this are not
the types I watch too often. So let's just say that "Seven" is not only
one of the few that I like, but probably the best film I've seen in
it's genre (I don't remember much from the one time I saw Jonathan
Demme's classic "The Silence Of The Lambs" (1991) many years ago). It's
dark, stylish, well-made and very thrilling. And if David Fincher
should be labeled a movie-genius (something that many of my friends
thinks), then "Se7en" should be labeled his masterpiece, I think.The most brilliant part of the film hits you right from the beginning
of....the mood. This film creates a dark and dusky mood that fits the
plot and setting perfect, and creeps up under your skin and glues you
to the screen. Techniqually and visually, this film is overwhelming and
offers everything I expect from a thriller. We also get a fear amount
of shocking and horrid pictures that's building up under the creepy
"feeling" of the film. David Fincher has done a great job with this
film, but Howard Shore's haunting score should also be mentioned, and
off course Andrew Kevin Walker's brilliant script and story, which is
very solid through out the whole film. Numerous of people have hailed
Fincher's "Fight Club" (1999) and M.Night Shyamalan's "The 6th Sense"
(1999) as two films with the best and most ingenious endings ever.
Well, those people sure haven't seen "Se7en"....THIS film has a
surprising and ingenious ending. I love every scene during the ending
part of this film ("You're no messiah! You're a movie of the week!
You're a f**kin' T-Shirt, at best!"). I've seen "Se7en" two times, with
a gap of about one year. I remembered much of the film the second time
I watched it, still I was totally surprised and stunned when the film
came to the ending. This part is classic cinema at it's best.With a great story like this you need some good actors to bring the
characters to life, and "Se7en" doesn't disappoint at that point
either. Morgan Freeman is good as usual, even though he, to me, seems
like the same person as he plays in about every film I've seen him in:
the old, wise and confident man who got the answer to almost every
question. Brad Pitt is also good in, what may be, the best performance
I've ever seen by him. The same can be said for Gwyneth Paltrow (who
plays David Mills' wife), even though I haven't seen many films with
her. But the one who steals the show, in my opinion, is Kevin Spacey.
His role and character is very surprising, and I don't want to spoil
anything. Just wait until you get to see his character show up in the
film...he's brilliant.Like I said before, "Se7en" is probably the best serial-killer movie
I've ever seen. But even though it is solid at all points, it does have
a few imperfections...but how much should I really demand the few times
when I'm watching films like this? I recommend this film for everyone.
I waited too long before I watched it for the first time, and that's
not something I want other people who like good movies, to do. "Se7en"
is a thrilling experience you'll never forget.9.0 out of 10

******
9 May 2004
10

After every great review of "Se7en", I knew I just had to see this movie. I
was greatly impressed with this exciting thriller. The beginning was
starting a little rocky for me, but everything came in just right. Almost
perfect, I really loved this movie. Everything about it. The acting, the
sets, the effects. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are amazing in the film with
the fine cameo of Kevin Spacey as John Doe. Even though I knew what would happen at the end due to everyone telling me.
But I was still more than into this film. I'd recommend this
highly.10/10

******
4 June 2003
8

"Seven" by David Fincher: a movie that attracted a lot of attention and made
Fincher go down in history. His efforts devoted to this very original
thriller were rewarded since it was one of the most successful movies made
in 1995. "Seven" is probably one of the peaks of the film noir. It's based
on a clever and especially devilish screenplay. This devilish side is
particularly obvious by certain moments during the movie (notably the end):
when Kevin Spacey (the killer) is leaving some clues at places where he
committed his murders. He's leaving clues so that Morgan Freeman and Brad
Pitt can pick up his trail but he's also mocking at police.Moreover, can we really consider the end as a happy-end. Freeman, once says:
"this isn't going to have a happy-end". He's partly true. Spacey died but he
managed to achieve his grim intention and he broke Pitt's life. When you
look at his face in the last pictures, you might think he went
mad...The movie is also wrapped in a sordid, dreary even stifling atmosphere. The
kinds of feelings you must feel by living such a story. Like "Psycho" by
Alfred Hitchcock, by moments, the movie is plunged into horror (the
discovery of the murders).At last, a dazzling performance comes to crown it all: a confident and a
tiny bit conceited Brad Pitt teams up with a wistful and disillusioned
Morgan Freeman. Both makes a perfect duet. And I think Kevin Spacey's
performance is definitely his best one to date.A thriller sometimes violent but always entrancing.   


******
24 February 2004
4

This is a top 250 movie?!?  Brad Pitt's acting is shallow, stereotypical,
and not nuanced.  He does the California surfer-dude routine throughout the
entire movie as though some uneducated simpleton dolt could wind up with his
job...sorry, but I don't think so.  The plot line relies on a
connect...the...dots methodology -- contrived, and largely predictable with
action interspersed with banal social dialogue.  I gave this 4/10 mostly for
the fine acting of Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman.  Very silly -- Brad
Pitt's acting had me laughing...and not in a good way.   In defense of Mr.
Pitt, I think he was badly miscast since I've seen other movies in which he
does at least a respectable job.  

******
28 November 2015
8
It's an interesting mysterious movie that makes you freeze on the
screen. One of the best parts is the final part of the film which you
come to conclusion that who the seventh victim is going to be. The
murderer of the movie is characterized very well. He shows that he has
a special ideal society in his mind and is trying to help to make the
world better... The world is a good place and worth fighting for. I
agree with the second part. Nice dialogue. And also: "I've been trying
to figure something in my head, and maybe you can help me out, yeah?
When a person is insane, as you clearly are, do you know that you're
insane?" it was some funny interesting dialogue! ... Anyway it was a
nice movie to watch.

******
18 March 2015
10
Se7en (also known as Seven) is one of the best thrillers that everyone
still talks about. It's certainly not a clichéd movie nor does it use a
recycled plot. It is well written with an original plot and the cast is
brilliant. The entire movie is suspenseful and dark with its shock
value added to keep audiences engaged. Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman,
Gwyneth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey, John C. McGinley and Kevin Spacey are
excellent.Set in an unnamed city which rains for most of the movie, Se7en is
about a serial killer who's M.O. is based around the seven deadly sins.
The seven deadly sins are Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Envy, Wrath, Pride
and Lust. Morgan Freeman is Detective Lieutenant William Somerset, a
worn out homicide detective on the verge on retirement. Somerset is
partnered with newly transferred Detective David Mills played by Brad
Pitt, an idealistic yet brash and hot headed police detective. Somerset
and Mills are tasked with the investigation as the gruesome murders
pile up one at a time. The serial killer who calls himself John Doe,
played by Kevin Spacey, leaves inconspicuous clues on the next victim
as well as his identity. Meanwhile David Mills' wife Tracy is unhappy
with the move to the city and confides to Somerset that she is
miserable here. Somerset and Mills must race against time to find John
Doe as well as any further victims.Brad Pitt shows that he is a versatile actor and not just a pretty face
as the brash Detective David Mills. Morgan Freeman is tailor made as
the world weary Detective Lieutenant William Somerset who wants to
solve this case before his retirement. Gwyneth Paltrow makes her mark
as David's wife Tracy, who reluctantly agrees to transfer to the city
with her husband. Kevin Spacey is chilling as the calculating John Doe.
Kevin Spacey's John Doe earns a spot as one of the best villains of all
time. R. Lee Ermey, famous for his role as Gunnery Sergeant Hartman in
Full Metal Jacket, does a good job as the unnamed Police Captain. John
C. McGinley also does a good job as the hard charging SWAT Team Leader
California.Se7en is notable for putting director David Fincher on the map, making
critics and audiences stand up and take notice that he is a force to be
reckoned with. After his disastrous debut with Alien 3 (1992), David
Fincher does a brilliant job with Se7en. David Fincher would later go
on and direct further movies that would cement his reputation as a
brilliant director with movies such as The Game (1997), Fight Club
(1999), Panic Room (2002), Zodiac (2007), The Curious Case of Benjamin
Button (2008), The Social Network (2010), The Girl with the Dragon
Tattoo (2011), and Gone Girl (2014). David Fincher, along with writer
Andrew Kevin Walker and cinematographer Darius Khondji should be
commended on a job well done for bringing to the screen a dark,
gratuitous and grim thriller. The entire movie does not let up for one
moment, and the shocking ending just smacks you in the face. The best
part is that the ending is unexpected and NOBODY could tell you that
they saw it coming. If anyone says that they could see it coming, they
are full of it. The shocking ending in Se7en is one that will stay with
you for days, and it certainly did when I first saw it many years ago.Although Se7en is a grisly and gory movie that is certainly not for the
faint hearted, it rightfully earns its spot as one of the best
thrillers of all time, and definitely one of the most popular movies of
the 1990's.10/10.

******
10 February 2015
8
Uh do I remember time when I saw this film for the first time! I think
the most memorable part of it will be Morgan Freeman. That man just did
a role of his life with that film! I was very impressed with the plot.
For a police thriller this was very ingenious plot, with many twist and
turns, jumpy and sad moments. I remember when I and my ex wife watched
this film we were very depressed for that evening in style why do
people have to be that way? Altogether, if you did not see that film , I would strongly recommend
that you see it. Very rarely thriller can be so smart and interesting
at the same time, and this is the case here.Also, it is probably Morgan Freeman*s role of life!

******
10 February 2015
10
The DP did an amazing job using practicals and plain light from his
surroundings in this movie. Love it. The energy and the way people get
taken out in this movie is amazing, what can I say, I love a good
mystery. This movie has definitely impacted the way I see writing and
they way I use lighting to create my own projects. The actors created a
great environment and enough excitement of the viewers to sit tight
through the entire movie. I would love to see a sequel of this Se7en
bringing out a new maniac that does things a little different but still
gives the detectives and the audience the same challenges as this movie
did.

******
25 January 2015
10
This Movie is in the top Ten. I really enjoyed it. It kept you waiting
to see what was going to happen next.You have Morgan Freeman,Brad Pitt,
Gwyneth Paltrow and of course Kevin Spacey one of the best cast to be
put together.Great job.It will keep you guessing, but you won't get
this one , Good luckIt's was a dark,chilling thriller filled with suspense. A great plot!
Gives you the ending of what happens in the last half hour, but no one
catch's on until the end,I didn't and i love it , A must see. One of my
Favorites, You won't fall asleep on this one , but sweet dreams.Do you
know the 7 sins? You will after this .

******
14 January 2015
10
One of the fist proper thriller films i ever saw at the cinema, was
actually a first date film, absolutely loved it,the film not the date
so much ha! The film itself led me on to become a fan of the Saw films,
and any other films with the kind of twisted sordid story lines in
which Se7en started, it really did start a massive trend in that kind
of genre. Excellent cast and was hooked from the minute i started
watching it. The story gets me every time, which allows me to re watch
again and again, thats rare with a film. Was surprised they never did a
sequel, shame as there was so much this story could grow in to. With
that said, some films are best left as a one of, and maybe thats what
makes Se7en so addictive and special.

******
2 January 2015
8
Crime thrillers had always been the curious genre since very long time,
it's mainly because of those curiosity, suspense its succeeds in
forming on-screen, and even to bring out special content in such hugely
used genre is truly a challenge, very strong hold of the story, with
some sadist killer's weird way of homicide and along with some best
mode of investigations, all this stuff makes 1995's ''sev7en'' the
best.This movie is about two investigators in their way to unveil the killer
behind the unusual murder mystery, the maker of this movie made this
plot interesting with usage of some very unique kind of murdering (on
the base of seven sins), I remembered Tamil film-maker Shankar's 2005
flick ''Anniyan'' where he had adopted somewhat same concept to make
his movie interesting one, Shankar bought the concept of Garudapurana
in his film and succeeded in catching the attention of mass, its sure
that the unique things always wins the game.Morgan Freeman is tremendous with his vast performing skills, his role
as the Detective Somerset succeeds in creating an impact on viewers,
Brad Pitt is another talented guy who makes this movie the complete
one, his part as Detective Mills is awesome, and his top notch
performance is seen at the climax that truly shows his qualitative
on-screen depiction, screenplay is the heart of the movie and the
camera work is mind blowing, and yes se7en is best with its wholesome
presentation.

******
29 December 2014
10
If you are looking for 120mins of pure cinematic joy this is the movie
for you.It contains everything that thriller movie should have,great
script with amazing twist,horror elements,mystery,actions etc,and
amazing cast.Brad Pitt(at his best),Morgan Freeman(awesome as
usual),Kevin Spacey and Gwyneth Paltrow are the names that would
capture every ones attention. One of the best,if not The Best,then for
sure one of the most interesting movie of all time.Without a doubt The
Best Thriller ever.If you are fan of mystery,crime and serial killer
stories then you should see it.Personally I was not the fan of those
types of genres until i saw Se7en.Now i am watching everything similar.

******
25 December 2014
9
good suspenseful movie, keeps you guessing until the end at which you
are still completely blown away. definitely top 50 movies. Brad Pitt
and Morgan Freeman in their prime. two thumbs up wish there were more
movies on this level you are missing out if you haven't seen it must
watch. I myself am a fan of the gritty cop type movies as well as the
suspenseful serial killer movies. this movie gives a nice look into the
seven deadly sins and their viewpoint onto how everyone should look
into their own lives and see where they fall in amongst the big 7.
towards the end you start to see the mindset of Pitt when all the wants
to do is catch this killer in his now damn the laws damn the rules
thought process and just wanting this person caught. the end is messed
up but the ideology and Pitt and the killer having a sort of symbiotic
relationship makes it an interesting movie.

******
22 December 2014
8
The movie had a high tension built up towards the grand ending and i
thought it was gonna something extravagant and awesome, but it turned
out to be quite plain, yes, John Doe was the ''envy'' and by killing
Mills's wife and her unborn baby, he carried out his plan, hence Mills
shot him as his punishment.That left the last sin - ''wrath'', and Mills was the wrath at the end,
since John Doe provoked him to punish him for his envious life by
killing him.The idea was great, got super curious about the ending, but the problem
was, that it didn't really seem that John Doe wanted to be a normal
man, he was not envious of Mills's life, he was just insane. That part
made no sense. Really expected the ending to be way more complex and
interesting, however the movie was not bad overall and was quite
enjoyable.

******
29 November 2014
9
Watched in film studies; loved the plot, liked the characters apart
from the barely there wife. I mean, come on, they gave everyone else a
personality... Morgan freeman was absolutely wonderful, and this film
makes his current typecasting painful; with the depth and range of his
performance. Brad Pitt did a good, but not remarkable job as well. The
villain, John Doe, of course stole the show; and every single death was
an exhibitionist delight to watch, gripping the part of you that likes
to be disturbed by the throat, refusing to let go. The visuals were
lavishly disturbing and the soundtrack worked wonderfully - however,
the last death(s) was bloody obvious, and this was hell to watch for
someone who thinks of herself as squeamish. I managed to man up and
watch every death scene apart from the last one; in which the film
turned into a radio programme instead and I was intensely fascinated
with the minutiae of the floor.

******
27 November 2014
10
I had Just watched Se7ven recently, and it honestly was one of the most
fascinating films i have watched in a while. Se7ven was on my Netflix
watch list for quite a while and i kept holding it off for the
appropriate time. When it comes to choosing a movie for me I like to
get a sense if the movie is a unique/special film. Well let me be the
first to say this film was special, during the movie you get a sense
human nature and interaction. Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, and Kevin
Spacey all play very fitting characters for each of their acting
styles. Brad Pitt plays a rookie police detective new to a crime
written city who's personality is very cavalier and inpatient. Where on
the other hand Morgan Freemen plays a veteran detective that has worked
in the city for years and whom is rational. Both detectives together
take on a reoccurring homicide cases in which is m/o is discovered to
be the Seven Deadly Sins. They come close to finding the killer after
the first five deadly sins and run into the believed murderer, which
turns into a chase-down/shootout. After the incident, while still
trying to catch the murderer with no luck a twist of fate happens.
Kevin Spacey/the murderer turns himself into the prescient confessing
to the murders. Kevin Spacey plays a extremely intellectual and
mysterious person. After questioning him, the detectives believe their
is a reason why he turned himself in. After a brief conversation, the
killer/John Doe agrees to confess to all murders and to lead the police
to where the last victims are. But the killer has a stipulation which
is that only the two detectives shall go with him directly to find the
victims. After agreeing the detectives proceed, with a long integrating
conversation on the ride there between the detectives and the killer.
After arriving the killer keeps saying how it will arrive soon and asks
for the time. Eventually a package comes sent by a delivery person with
a box intended for Brad Pit's character, in the box is the detectives
wife severed head whom was also pregnant. The killer does this to
peruse the seven deadly sins, which in his cases would be envy because
he is jealous of Brad Pitts life. After Brad Pit's character realizes
this he is overwhelmed with emotion has an ultimatum to face, either
kill the murderer and be committed of the last deadly sin which is
wrath and jeopardize his life and career or let the murderer live and
be dealt with thorough the Justice system. As Morgan Freeman,s
character basically puts it "if you kill him he will win the game and
succeed in his mission". Brad Pitt ignores this and unloads the pistol,
killing the murderer.

******
12 November 2014
10
This film is another example of master David Fincher making an
excellent build up thriller that will end in craziness. If you are
familiar with David Fincher you know most of his films result in a mind
being blown. Well this film not only blows the mind it also has one of
the most suspenseful scenes in any film.All performances are great and I'm a fan of spacey in this one and he
isn't even on it except for the last 20 minutes or so. If you love
twisty movies or just thrillers in general than this film is a must see
for you because this film is one of the best of the genre. Don't skip
this film and prepare for a heart racing and wrenching finale that will
blow anyone's mind.

******
15 October 2014
10
It's powerfully directed by David Fincher, and Morgan Freeman gives
another of his superbly understated performances. The filmmakers stick
to their vision with such dedication and persistence that something
indelible comes across something ethically and artistically superior to
The Silence of the Lambs that refuses to exploit suffering for fun or
entertainment. The reason to see Seven, which is decidedly not for the
faint of stomach, is not for the punishment of sin, but the many
virtues of Freeman's contribution. Seven is a work of extraordinary
style, upsetting power and narrative daring. The investigation and the
clues that lead to the murderer are well thought out and continually
provocative. The film is quite involving. David Fincher is at the top
of his form with Seven, one of the darkest, creepiest, and most
brilliant serial killer pictures in film history, far more interesting
than Silence of the Lambs. Both Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman give great
performances in this film.The pace is fast and the shocks build
beautifully. The actors within it all reel with convincing horror.It's not the identity of the killer that gives Seven its kick -- it's
the way Fincher raises mystery to the level of moral provocation.
Despite some truly fantastic work throughout the '90s and 2000s, Se7en
still remains director David Fincher's best film, albeit by a very
narrow margin.

******
18 November 2013
3
I remember seeing this film not long after it came out and being very
disappointed, It starts off well and builds, the acting is top notch
and Pitt/Freeman suit their characters well, it's well directed and
appears at first to be well written however despite being great and
building building the ending is very very sub par, as I tagged this as
a spoiler I can be honest, it's not a happy ending, it's the type of
unhappy ending that makes you go away feeling unresolved, incomplete,
unfinished, etc. I just ended up feeling I had wasted two hours of my
life, maybe I am just a good little Hollywood drone who expects his
happy ending, but that's not the case, if the bad guy had been the type
you root for I wouldn't have minded or if they hadn't senselessly
killed off a character then maybe but the film just doesn't sit right
with me, the bad guy gets what he want's, the good guys get their life
ruined, it's just a total depressing mess of an ending that makes me
want to punch the writer.

******
11 February 2012
9
Today is 11/2/2011 just about 16 years since the release.Don't judge me
on the account that what was I doing for last decade to miss out on
such master piece.well I did see the movie decade ago but today wanted
to brush-up with a more mature prospective.These last 16 years saw dawn of many suspense thriller with antisocial
and dark base but by far this one is the leader of the pact.Sharing the
table with "silence of the lamb" it did put blood and evil on the table
but left audience to garnish and savour.What was so amazing was the
fact that without any cutting and slicing and on just mention of them
just send a chill down the spine.The direction was clever enough to
give hint to the dark circumstance and lead into a claustrophobic
background and let the imagination go wild.Story was no doubt the stronger of the lot and ending did make
sense.The twist and turns and finally the ending was totally
unexpected.I would like to write about it but wouldn't want to give
away the whole experience of it.Cast with Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt was in all fairness to the
character or out of exaggeration I may say maybe it was meant for
them.Freeman all experienced,exhausted and Brad Pitt young,agile
although stereotype brought the much seriousness required.And kevin
spacey which I noticed is not even in the first page of cast and crew
requires much admiration for the negative role although small but major
to the finish.Over all strong plot, direction, cinematography, cast, acting and
chill. A well deserved 9/10. I would further recommend for time to time
brush- up to experience all the said above all over again.

******
14 January 2012
9
As soon as the film ended, and David Bowie began to play on the
credits, I could only wonder why David Mills shot Kevin Spacey when he
seemed so much like he was not going to. And then I realized it was a
faulty seam at the end of a blanket, which would allow it to unravel
and fall apart. Don't misunderstand this; I'm not complaining. The end
seam may be insufficient, but it is still one of the warmest blankets
you could have the pleasure of, and it only unravels once you aggravate
it. No. I'm only reflecting, and wondering. I wonder how the ending
could have changed to suit the grandeur that is the entire film prior
to that fatal shot? What if Kevin Spacey lived, or they gave no
indication whether or not Mills shot him or did not shoot him. I cannot
honestly say, only that the ending is the reason why this film is one
of the best of the year, and not all time. Perhaps, that only way to
accurately describe such a thing is in its own words: "There isn't
going to be a happy ending. He's only human, and that will be
disappointing." Either way, Se7en is a phenomenal achievement in film,
marred only by its own brilliance. It seems as if it burnt out at the
two hour mark, and then faded away, fading from the annals of memory
and grandeur.

******
27 November 2011
6
Two detectives, a rookie and a veteran, hunt a serial killer who uses
the seven deadly sins as his modus operandi.David Fincher is notorious director known for making cinematic
masterpieces. I also love his filming style, as his progresses with
thought and precision, other than fast-paced filming with no thought.
Se7en was yet another film I have yet to see, and the film interested
me with it's high ratings and thriller-esque. But when I sat down to
see it, I was gratefully disappointed... Se7en started of great. The
performances was top-notch, and Fincher did a wonderful job capturing a
creepy atmosphere over the film. The movie progressed at a reasonable
rate, but the one thing I didn't like was how it concluded.. See, the
thing is, I like movies with a twist that cannot be seen from the
beginning. Sure, I didn't know John Doe was Kevin Spacey, but the whole
head thing wasn't too much of a shock. And the thing was, the whole
movie built around THIS; a head. It was highly predictable and highly
stupid.. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt worked around to the conclusion
reasonably, but it was all too rushed, or maybe too overdone. Now I'm
not bashing the film, and the only thing that left me disappointed was
the worked up conclusion that gave no sense of thought into it. The
film does have the Fincher touch though, and he did a fantastic job
with it. See, this is where it comes in again, the TWIST was worked up
so greatly. We're watching these murders, the mind-games, and the
confusion between it at all. But all this is wasted, truthfully, on a
twist ending that made me shriek nor feel anything. The creepiness and
everything else was wasted... So I recommend the film if you haven't
seen to many thriller films, and can expect a clichéd twist. Many
people seemed to enjoy the film, which I DID, but I think the twist
left a bad taste in my mouth. So see for yourself. 6/10.

******
19 November 2011
9
This movie is what I call a solid, A+, suspense/crime movie. It was
innovative and very well-written. The cinematography in the movie was
chilling with most scenes being dark or rainy thus adding to the
effect. There is only one focus on this movie and that is Detective
David Mills (Brad Pitt) and Detective William Somerset (Morgan
Freeman)'s journey to find a psychopath killer (Kevin Spacey) who uses
the Seven Deadly Sins as his guide. We see each murder as a crime scene
as opposed to the murders happening; this I thought, added to the
suspense of finding out who this killer is. The crimes lead up to
probably one of the biggest twists in cinema history. It will have you
guessing, what will happen? Everything will go through your head, and
you will probably be wrong.This movie, just like Fight Club, proved that Brad Pitt is not just a
pretty face. His acting skills alongside Morgan Freeman are
salute-able. Freeman is great in just about any movie just as this one.
And Kevin Spacey...his work was phenomenal. His character is probably
one of the most remarkable ones ever; and he aced at bringing him to
life. Gwyneth Paltrow was also in the movie as David Mill's wife. Her
parts weren't too big, but she still did well.I highly suggest watching this movie if you like a good mystery/scary
movie. It will defiantly stick to your head after watching. Movies
rarely ever scare me, but this one came really close.

******
11 September 2011
9
The formula has been used before, an experienced and world weary
detective (Morgan Freeman) is assigned a veritable rookie (Brad Pitt)
as a partner to solve a crime that's about to evolve into a serial
murder case. That's pretty much where the similarities end however, as
director David Fincher takes us on a compelling, if not sordid ride
into the belly of a cinematic beast. Based on the theme of the seven
deadly sins, "Se7en" is a film you're not likely to forget, even if
it's for all the wrong reasons. Though the sin of gluttony opens the
story with the gruesome imagery provided by a coroner's description of
the crime, the horror only builds as detectives Somerset (Freeman) and
Mills (Pitt) follow the taunting trail of a yet to be identified
killer. As the story progresses, the method of the murderer involves
some of the most disgusting ways to dispatch a victim, and it's the
discomfort the viewer has in imagining these crimes that play such a
visceral part of the film's experience.For all of the picture's implied gore and violence, the most riveting
sequence of the film takes place after John Doe gives himself up,
leaving the viewer to wonder how this is all going to play out. I must
say, Kevin Spacey can be a harrowing presence in a film, and the way he
portrays the serial killer is a study in implied menace. His demonic
influence overpowers the ride out to the field where he's about to
unload both barrels on the pair of detectives. His envy of the lawmen's
skill compels the final deadly sin of wrath to bring the picture to a
gut wrenching conclusion.This film is not for the faint of heart, and definitely not for someone
who likes their crime thrillers wrapped up neatly with a bow by the
time it's over. Somerset certainly knew that "This isn't going to have
a happy ending", but little could he have expected the twisted result
of John Doe's final act of desperate, solemn fury.

******
7 September 2011
10
A bleak, gruesome, horrific and clever thriller, and filmmaking of a
distinguished kind, it tells the tale of two detectives, one all set to
retire, the other at the outset of his career, and their efforts to
catch a jaundiced but cunning serial killer using the Seven Deadly Sins
as his narrative. As the film begins, we meet Somerset, a painstaking
veteran cop who lives a lonesome bachelor's life in what seems like a
furnished room. Then he meets Mills, an impetuous young cop who indeed
requested to be transferred to Somerset's district. The two men probe
an exceptionally grisly murder, an obese man having been hog-tied and
force-fed to death.His sin was gluttony. Shortly Somerset and Mills are examining
similarly creative murders concerning greed, sloth, lust and the like.
In each circumstance, the murderous means is fitting, and revolting.
Somerset deduces that the murderer, John Doe, is using his crimes to
sermonize. The look of this pulp meditation is vital to its
achievement. This is a very sinister film, the murk regularly diffused
only by police flashlights. Even when all the lights are on in the
victims' apartments, they shed merely ashen, despondent puddles of
illumination.While the story is present-tense, the set design evokes the 1940s. Gary
Wissner, the art director, uses dark blacks and browns, cavernous
shadows, lights of sickly yellow, and a lot of dark wood furnishings.
And it virtually always rains. In this cutthroat world of darkness,
Somerset and Mills move with increasing fear. Somerset perceives that
the killer is using ancient literature as a muse, and researches Dante,
Milton and Chaucer for clues. Mills opts for Cliff Notes. A leg up
comes with Somerset's feeling that John Doe must have a library card.
But the stiffs amass, in bitter thickset detail, as terrifyingly vivid
as one sees in commercial films. The few twinkles of soul and
hopefulness come from Mills' wife One of the most skillfully and
innovatively edited contemporary American films, perhaps its most
beautiful montage features Somerset in the library researching the
Seven Deadly Sins while his friends, the library custodians and guards,
share their boys'-night-out loft ritual, with an unexpected blackly
comic punch line: When the sequence ends, Fincher hard-cuts to Mills
losing his temper at these confounding research materials. The contrast
between Somerset's reservedness and erudition and Mills' man-this-sucks
horse sense and youthful dopeyness starts to make pretty broad strokes,
but there is some charming buddy-cop undercurrent that works without a
glitch into the glass sheen of the film's atmospheric tone. It's
because Andrew Kevin Walker's script and Freeman and Pitt's chemistry
that the film is so moving. For instance, the chasing of John Doe
through the streets gives Mills the till-now belated chance to show his
bones as an impressive, dedicated cop.The material independently could've been managed through numerous
approach, but David Fincher pinpoints suggestive atmosphere, and Walker
writes dialogue that especially for Morgan Freeman is judicious,
learned and lyrical. Ultimately, it sinks in that the killer's sermon
is being urged directly to the two investigators, and that to
appreciate it, they may have to imperil their hearts and their psyches.
Fincher's fatalistic noir ballad is distinctive in bringing the killer
on screen with half an hour left, and gives him a speaking role. Rather
than just being the game of a hunt, he's exposed as a warped yet
eloquent enemy, having contrived a hideous plan for finishing his
sermon.

******
19 August 2011
8
Seven is a masterpiece of David Fincher and one of the most beautiful
films in the nineties without a doubt that David Fincher has many films
in which many of mystery and crime thriller Zodiac and their panic
room. This film is one of the best films I've seen in my life. What can
I say about Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman and Kevin Spacey and the
chemistry between the three. Kevin Spacey he should win the Oscar for
this role This film was a must for nominations for the Academy Awards
best director, best film Best Actor Supporting Role Kevin Spacey.
Script was more than a wonderful and intelligent work of this film. The
best scene in the film is the debut of Kevin Spacey when he was
screaming at the top of his voice shocked and I was afraid Spacey
character in the film was really really scary. Have you noticed the
color of the film was dark and the rain was beautiful.Since the first
shot in the film to the end, one word will repeat three times. Epic.
Epic. Epic. Thank you and God bless you all.

******
6 July 2011
7
Overrated Masterpiece. I think thats an oxymoron, but its true. This
film is a masterful look at a decomposing city and the unfortunate few
who happen to live in it. It features great performances by Brad Pitt
and Morgan Freeman along with Gwyneth Paltrow and R. Lee Earney. I
guess I should summarise the plot since this is a review, but didn't
you see the movie? Why else would you read an IMDb review? Are you a
nerd, like me? But I digress...the film tells the story of two
detectives, Mills and Sommerset, who are investigating a series of
brutal murders in the form of the Seven Deadly Sins. There you go, ya
perfectionist slob. There's my summary. Okay, I'm sorry about being
mean so I'm going to describe everything else about the film just so
that this will constitute the structures that are built in order to be
a review. In fact, I'll indulge myself and create a little meta-review.
As said before, Freeman and Pitt (and everyone else yadda yadda) are
great in the film. In fact I think Pitts a little like the film: an
overrated masterpiece. Seriously, he isn't that good. That is unless if
you pair him up with David Fincher or let him star in Babel. Many have
praised Fincher's direction post-Se7en as perfection at its best. Many
contemporary reviewers, in other word internet nerds (like me!) have
praised his direction here. But they seem to forget that they are
praising him for praise-sake. His direction here is a little a
sophomore in its presentation, lacking the punch of Fight Club (a
personal favorite) or Zodiac. Though there is this one shot of the
Killer pointing the gun at Pitt's temple. Its simple but I see the
depth of the future cinematography of Fight Club. I did right spoiler
at the top of this review so I shall spoil. Kevin Spacey is the killer
and bloody good one at that. He delivers the part not ironically but
with a knowing grimness that Ledger's Joker emulated. He knows what he
is doing is bad and he knows that he shouldn't be enjoying what he's
doing but he does. And in that comes a great villain. I wish IMDb gave
out "1/2's" because a seven's undermining the film but an eight would
be pushing it. The film itself is good but not as good as everyone
says. As a proper "debut" (Alien 3 doesn't count) though, its up there
with Blood Simple and Reservoir Dogs. That's it I guess. I'm never good
with endings but to quote Ferris Bueller "What are you still doing
here? Out Out!"

******
6 July 2011
10
This movie is one of the best thrillers I have ever seen. There is a
lot of originality here. Although the murders in this film do not occur
on screen, the aftermath is very disturbing. I really like the
storyline to this film. Two detectives are trying to capture a murderer
who kills his victims according to the seven deadly sins, hence the
films title. For those not familiar with the seven deadly sins, they
are pride, envy, wrath, sloth, greed, lust and gluttony. There is good
character development, a lot of suspense, some scary moments and it is
very disturbing. If you like films directed by David Fincher, I would
recommend Se7en. If you do not like films that are filled with
disturbing and grotesque images, I would recommend comedy films. If you
get the chance, rent it or buy it. You will not be disappointed. It is
definitely worth a watch.

******
5 July 2011
10
I have seen a lot of movies in this genre, but I must say that this one
tops them all.Acting: 10/10 .... Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt were awesome. They were
so much in character and the way they complemented each other being two
totally opposite-minded detectives was just marvelous. I never really
liked Pitt much and refrained from watching his movies thinking that he
is just a show-off and the one movie that I did watch of him(not this
one) proved the same. But from now on, I am so gonna watch his movies.
As for Freeman, his performance cannot be described.Story: 10/10 .... An amazing thriller, superbly written. The story has
been ingeniously crafted and is totally shocking, stunning and DARK. It
keeps a tight grip over you and you WILL be scared of what might happen
next. The whole plot startling, especially the ending.Overall:10/10 .... Directed with complete perfection by David Fincher,
it is indeed a masterpiece. The scenes are intense and remarkably dark.
You don't see such movies everyday.I seriously suggest not going through any spoilers as they will only
ruin the fun for you.

******
28 June 2011
10
One of the reasons why 90's cinema is still the greatest. If you like
drama movies with suspense in it, this is the one you should watch. It
is disturbing to see how the mind of a psychopath is portrayed in the
movie. It is an outstanding thriller with no plot holes. Kevin Spacey
could be considered a different version of Hannibal Lecter. This movie
is entertaining to watch, Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are top notch as
usual. The story is frightening, tense and exciting. You really feel
for the characters and their drama. I have the blue ray of it and the
image quality is fantastic. I recommend anyone to watch the Blu ray
version! End of my review.

******
31 May 2011
8
At the start of Se7en, we get to see a murder scene happening in the
beginning of an investigation. The detectives are played by Morgan
Freeman and Brad Pitt. What they don't know is that the next seven days
are going to be a rude awakening by a series of unfortunate murders.
Se7en has a great and smart idea and a great pacing of suspense. But,
sometimes the movie is hard to watch because of the graphic violence
being displaced. After the beginning of the movie, the detectives are
assigned to solve the murder cases. They have a similar connection, all
of the cases is marked with the seven deadly sins. Soon, they realize
that a menacing serial killer is on the loose. The setting for Se7en
really concentrates on a dark, quite scary atmosphere. We don't know
where the story takes place, but that means anything big in the plot
because this movie holds the full package. Se7en keeps a dark and grim
tone to the murders. This is a full exceptional cast also including R.
Lee Ermey and Gwyneth Paltrow. Se7en works at its best with all of the
suspenseful scenes and it pulls off with a edge-of-your-seat climax. A
great mystery thriller. ★★★ 1/2 3 1/2 stars

******
30 March 2011
9
Superbly crafted mystery about two detectives, one a veteran (Freeman)
one a rookie (Pitt), on the hunt for a serial killer inspired by the
seven deadly sins. Isn't dated and is an instant classic. Ermey and
Paltrow are well-cast as supporting characters. Scary, thrilling,
memorable; but predictability is nearby, and even the climatic twist
doesn't appear to be as shocking as intended. Some of the characters'
back-story (specifically Freeman's) seems to be overly developed and
completely unnecessary to the plot at hand. Still a terrific
pulls-no-punches crime-thriller that made David Fincher a recognized
director, and rightfully so!***½ (out of four)

******
23 February 2011
8
Comparisons to The Silence of the Lambs (SotL) are apt: this film is
directed with all of the skill and taut suspense of that earlier
masterpiece. Se7en, like all of Hitchcock's best films, and like the
fore-mentioned SotL, builds tension through suggestion and atmosphere.
There is very little actual violence or gore in the film, but what is
SUGGESTED is horrifying. The cinematography is superb: the film almost
physically feels dirty and grimy. Darkness pervades all, and by the end
of the film I had the doors all locked and felt a curious urge to bathe
myself, to scrub off the filthiness and evil that is omni-prevalent in
the film. It knows the creepiness of silence and emptiness, and the
scariest portions of the film are usually also the most uneventful. The
score is good and matches the visuals nicely. The acting is almost
perfect: the background roles all do their job well, Morgan Freeman is
convincing as a seasoned and cynical investigator, and Keven Spacey is
brilliant as the unhinged, moralizing serial killer. Brad Pitt,
however, is an awful actor, and he is the one thing I found really
wrong with this film. Actually, most of the movie he was adequate but
irritating: I just accepted that the character is supposed to be cocky
and irritating as well and moved on. But the ending... let's just say
Brad Pitt almost ruins what is one of the most shocking endings in
cinematic history with his inability to act. Otherwise, the film is
nearly perfect, but because Pitt's acting broke my immersion in the
film during the climax, I can only award it eight out of ten stars.
Hopefully people will learn to keep him far away from roles that
require any actual acting.

******
26 December 2010
10
This Story that I am talking about is the brilliantly disturbing
thriller, Se7en. Kevin Spacey portrays the insane John Doe who is
obsessed to rid the world of all sins, by killing off those whom he
feels have committed them. His performance alone is worth the watch.Although I don't want to spoil the film for anyone as it's a must see,
I thought I'd still tell you a few of the killings that occur in this
film, as I was not warned when I first saw it and didn't sleep that
night! She who lived with Pride had her nose cut off to spite her face.
It is then a choice given by Doe for her to call for help and live the
rest of her life without a beautiful face, or to take her own life. He
who committed Sloth was bound to his own bed for an entire year where
he soon after swallowed his own tongue and deteriorated in both mind,
body and soul. Those who chose Lust were forced to perform a sexual act
wearing a strap on with a slightly sharper point them normal. The
prostitute was raped, killed and had her genitalia mutilated in the
process and the client had to live the rest of his life with what he
had done to her in order to save his own life.All events in this film are politically poetic enough to make your puke
and despite if you have a weak stomach, I advise that you do not give
this film a miss. After all, you don't want to commit sloth now, do
you?

******
2 December 2010
10
Se7en is one of my favorite films of all time and not just because of
the chemistry between Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman, both of whom are my
favorite actors, but also the directing of David Fincher. The dark
visual style throughout the whole film and of course the acting is
astonishing.The characters depicted in the film are characters we all can relate to
in some way or another. David Mills played by Brad Pitt, who knows that
the world is a dark and cruel place, but still has the faith to believe
in everything thats good and positive about it. Det. William Somerset
played by Morgan Freeman, who has already given up on the world a long
time ago. And John Doe played by Kevin Spacey, who gives us a chilling
performance as a twisted individual who simply "would not take it
anymore" (like Travis in Taxi Driver said).At the end of the film you'll get one of the most disturbing endings of
all time. A "what would I have done" kind of ending. That was the exact
question I asked myself after I viewed it in amazement. The only other
Ending that could possibly be as great as Se7en is THE MIST, which came
out in 2007. It just shows that a movie like this comes out almost
every 10 years.Whether or not you agree with anything that John Doe does in the film,
you can't help but to think that he does have a valid point...

******
19 October 2010
10
when i first saw this movie, i spotted it on the five dollar shelves at
target. I asked my dad if it was a good movie since it had two of my
favorite actors, Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt. He bought it for me and
told me to watch it immediately. I did without stopping, and i swear,
it was AMAZING. The story is about two detectives who are after a
criminal mastermind who kills his victums based on the seven deadly
sins. the acting in this movie is top notch, and one additional cast
mate i was really happy to see was Kevin Spacy from American Beauty as
the killer. He plays a very calm and calculative villain who planned
everything from the beginning and in the end, it all plays out like
planned. The twist ending has been dubbed, the scariest ending ever,
watch it, because i refuse to take away the shock if you haven't seen
it already. It will leave you breathless and you probably wont expect
the end result. If you do, then you know your movies. Still buy it,
rent it, just see it. its worth it, all the way

******
22 September 2010
8
SE7EN  CATCH IT ( A- ) I saw Se7ev too late I guess, its 2010 and its
been 15 years since its been released, so I suppose when it came out it
was the sickest and brutal thing ever though now Saw and other torture
movies have finish the brutality limit. Still its one of the most
decent thriller I have ever seen. Morgan freeman is incredible as ever.
Brad Pitt is always a treat to watch and yet again he showed why he is
the top actor of Hollywood. Gwyneth Paltrow didn't have much scoop but
still she leaves strong impact Kevin Spacey is good. Overall nice
thriller which I saw too late and I already could guess whats going to
happen next but still David Fincher proved that he has his own vision
and no one can mess with that. Bravo.

******
16 September 2010
9
I remember at the age of 15 in the year 1995 I was sitting "on the edge
of my seat" at the cinema watching this incredible thrilling movie!!!
During watching I knew the end had to be shocking and beyond
expectation and that's why I almost couldn't handle my nerves. It
turned out I couldn't be more correctly because the end left a
tremendous impact on me! I watched many thrillers in all those years
after watching Se7en, but hardly one of them could give me that
stunning feeling again. Many tried to imitate this movie but I think
nobody succeed. Even nowadays I'm still in a little shock watching Se7en. That's why I
think this is one of the best movies ever! It's a dark movie with a
disturbing message that's true, but also a dark movie can be a
masterpiece especially when it's such a well thought-out story filmed
in such a unique chilling way! The whole cast is outstanding and this
was also the movie where I had the honor to see the brilliant actor
Kevin Spacey for the first time. Immediately I wanted to see more of
him after watching this astonishing and powerful performance as John
Doe.

******
21 August 2010
9
Andrew Kevin Walker wrote what could be considered one of the greatest
scripts in cinema history and it was undoubtedly adapted with perfect
precision by the great auteur David Fincher. The cinematography is also
dynamic and gritty, a characteristic found in many Fincher films such
as Fight Club.Easily, the best performance goes to Kevin Spacey. He was the best
actor within the group. But I would point to Andrew Kevin Walker again,
as he created and actor proof character, but Spacey delivered. If the
character himself had had more screen time, I think he would have been
just as, if not more interesting to watch than Anthony Hopkins
Hannibal.I've read that Pitt turned down a role in Apollo 13 to do this and a
brilliant choice it was. He has since worked with Fincher on Fight Club
and The Curious Case Of Benjamin Button, so they must work well
together, either way it comes across well on screen.

******
23 March 2010
9
Seven in itself is a very good psycho thriller movie.Well paced &
terrific star-cast makes it very special.The seven sins will make you
think.....that wow!!!what a fantastic concept.I never knew of these
sins before i came to see this brilliant masterpiece.Fantastic
performance from Morgan Freeman & Brad Pitt.Here we see too different
kind of detectives.One is sensible & mature whereas other wants action
& is impatient.Terrific role from the psycho killer too.I don't want to
disclose his name to anyone.You have to see for your self who he
is.Dialog delivery is at its par.The seven sins & the psychotic murders
will keep you occupied.And the ending its just penultimate.Fantastic &
a great surprising ending.The only question is will the psycho killer
win or will the detectives catch him before its too late for many.A
movie must to be watched.Not to be missed.Unique & surprising in its
own way.

******
19 March 2010
8
"I just don't think I can continue to live in a place that embraces and
nurtures apathy as if it was a virtue."  Detective Somerset David Fincher's "Seven" sees rookie cop Brad Pitt hooking up with
veteran detective Morgan Freeman. In typical cop movie fashion, Freeman
is due to retire in a week, but a spate of violent killings pulls him
back on the job, the serial killer committing ritualistic murders
inspired by the seven deadly sins.The first act of "Seven" is rife with clichés: a hotshot rookie paired
off with a wise old timer, a serial killer who loves toying with cops,
a narrative which bounces from one lavishly decorated crime scene to
the next etc etc. Throw in the obligatory foot chase, library scene,
motor mouthed police captain (Lee Ermey) and an aesthetic which owes a
little too much to both "The Silence of the Lambs" and "The X Files",
and you'd think you had a fairly routine serial killer movie on your
hands. Only you don't.Fincher creates a festering world, dank, putrid and forever bathed in
rain. More interestingly, his narrative goes to great pains to reverse
the trend found in most serial killer movies. Whilst most genre films
treat their killers as monsters, deformed and different from us,
"Seven" challenges our view of monstrosity and paints a world in which
the monster is us. "We see a deadly sin on every street corner," John
Doe, our serial killer states, "and we tolerate it! We tolerate it
because it's common, it's trivial!"Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Envy, Wrath, Pride and Lust are everywhere,
even in Morgan Freeman's wise detective hero, the moral centre of the
film. "We're no worse than he is," Freeman says, sympathising with John
Doe and chastising others for labelling him insane. Both men are
teachers in their own way, both trying to fix the world, Freeman by
arresting the guilty, Doe by killing them outright. Doe, without
history, family or fingerprints, thus becomes a kind of symbol for
man's collective guilt, trying desperate to shock the world out of
apathy.These themes are summed up best in a throwaway bit of dialogue when
Pitt asks the owner of a prostitution parlour whether he likes the
things he sees around him. "That's life," the guy shrugs.Ultimately, the message is not only that we are all guilty, but that in
creating "relative" versions of guilt, society only degenerates into a
kind of mass indifference. "It's easier to lose yourself in drugs than
it is to cope with life," Freeman says at one point. "It's easier to
beat a child than it is to raise it. Hell, love costs: it takes effort
and work." The film ends with Freeman quoting a line by Ernest Hemingway  "The
world is a fine place and worth fighting for."  and then stating that
he agrees only with the second part. The world's cesspit, but it's
worth fighting for.Fighting for a better world is, in a sense, what Fincher's "Fight Club"
is about. Released at the tail end of the 1990s, the film belongs to a
group of films ("Magnolia", "Safe", "The Ice Storm", "American Beauty",
"Fight Club", "Being John Malkovich", "Fear and Loathing", "Far From
Heaven", "The Savages", "Happiness" etc) which sought to explore middle
class resentment, each seeing American life as being empty, mundane or
a suicidally dull bore.Post-war cinema had long worked out its existential issues with a
variety of masterpieces (cf Antonioni, Bergman, Ray, Minnelli, Sirk
etc), but then came two decades of excess and so stupor. When American
cinema finally re-woke up to its deep rooted malaise, it tended to
skirt around the issue. Fulfilment thus became a sexual problem, all
these films revolving around white males who seek empty flings and
biochemical bliss. "Fight Club" belongs to this group, though here sex
becomes a kind of bare-backed man-on-man homo-erotic violence.
Elsewhere Fincher attacks rampant consumerism, and highlights a
perceived loss of masculinity in our modern society by having his hero,
a wimpy Edward Norton, gradually becomes his alter ego, the animalistic
Tyler Durden. Tyler represents Norton's repressed animal nature and
sense of rebellion. It is through Tyler that Norton  who spends the
film drifting from one support and rehabilitation group to the next 
learns to lash out, creating a underground boxing club which eventually
evolves into "Project Mayhem", a terrorist group which seeks to tear
down modern civilisation.But the great joke of "Fight Club" is that the film subtly mocks the
fantasy image of Tyler Durden. Durden, the manly anarchist and
poster-boy for raging male hormones, is ultimately just another
ineffectual support group. Another product to buy into. What's offensive is that, whilst the film acknowledges that reactionary
forms of rebellion don't work  capitalism absorbs and internalises all
attacks - and that raging against the usual figureheads are empty
gestures (Norton wants to blow up credit card data-banks and beat up
his boss), it's unable to point to either any real solution, or any
actual "cause". This would require artists who are actual geniuses.8.5/10 - Worth multiple viewings.

******
11 March 2010
9
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt star in this incredible thriller about a
killer that mimics The Seven Deadly Sins through his murders.Se7en is a fantastic, dark, and gritty thriller with many twists and a
incredible climax. Morgan Freeman being one of my favourite actor's in
film, delivers a fantastic performance and presents a very compelling
character for the film. Although not being a fan of Brad Pitt, he still
performs well in this movie and both the actors compliment each other.
Freeman however, steals the spotlight for most of the movie mostly due
to the character that is created and how compelling and well thought
out he is.The story does start off a little slow but it really does pick up after
about twenty to thirty minutes in. It keeps you guessing on what will
happen next and will keep you on the edge of the seat. The ending of
the movie I feel was the best part of it all. I will not say anything
about the ending but I'm sure it will shock you.Overall, it is a fantastic movie and I would recommend it to any adult
who is a fan of the thriller genre. Go see it.

******
10 January 2010
7
This movie got more than it deserved from the people. Its not that
great. The villain is the only great part in this movie.Investigation is really bad though they say Morgan Freeman is a great
detective with huge experience. All they do is make deductions from the
crime scene, read the books. And there is a good FBI strategy for
finding possible criminals.They do not question anyone besides one of the dead man's wife. They do
not really go after the criminal.He had to come to them.The villain's plan with the 7 deadly sins is great.Also the family affairs of Brad Pitt and Gwyneth were a little too
much. Its as if they have a marriage trouble, though there is none. At
one point it even gives the impression of an affair with Morgan
Freeman.Its just a good movie.

******
8 October 2009
10
Se7en is unlike any other movie I have seen before. This movie made me
realize the genius of David Fincher. Each scene developed brings a
different mindset to the audience because of the surreal art direction
that gets into the psyche of the viewer. Each moment on screen gives
you a feeling of what it is really like to be in the mind of someone
who is insane. Andrew Kevin Walker writes a story that is daring,
complex, and brilliant.The movie starts off with Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman inspecting the
first murder and the different personalities each detective has in the
way they work. Brad Pitt's rebellious attitude and Morgan Freeman's old
school antics is a great team of bold and brass. As each murder occurs,
we can see the different reaction it has on the detectives and the way
their stature is shaken by these events. Each different gruesome murder
found increases the shock factor for the audience. To think that one
man can do such manipulative and sadistic acts leaves the viewer
stunned and wanting more. David Fincher couldn't have created a more
suspenseful and elaborate plot to keep the audience on edge.While Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play their role to a T, the real
star of the movie is yes SPOILER: John Doe himself as played by Kevin
Spacey. The shear brilliance of this character is amazing and makes you
uneasy with how intellectual and cunning he really is. The famous scene
in which he gives himself up to the cops leaves you saying WHAT?! WHY?!
and asking many other questions. While this is his first appearance on
screen in the film, the presence of his character only gets better as
the movie progresses.The second most famous scene to me has to the be the long monologue the
two detectives and John have in the car ride on the way to the murder
scene. This to me is one of the most memorable pieces of dialog in any
movie i can remember. The genius of this scene is shown mostly in the
ways Kevin Spacey answers the questions the detectives throw at him.
Example when he questions Detective Mills about the fact that the
people he murdered were innocent, actually leaves yourself questioning,
Is John Doe really the evil one, or is society the devil itself? This
was just a prelude to the most amazing ending to any movie I can
remember.After the long car drive to the scene where John Doe is supposedly
showing the detectives where the last two victims of his grand scheme
are held, the unexpected hits you like a speeding bullet. In my
opinion, I believe that the majority of the people who watched this
movie think the last two victims were Mills and Somerset themselves and
John Doe was just luring them to the be the final victims of his
masterpiece. But David Fincher and company leave you with your jaw
dropped and eyes wide open. As the scene progresses, a van is seen
coming towards their direction. A man comes out saying he is supposed
to deliver a box to a Detective Mills at this time. At this point I'm
thinking what in the world could be in that box? Is it a bomb? But as
Detective Somerset goes to investigate the box and John Doe says that
he admires Detective Mills life, it all slowly starts to piece
together.Once Doe mentions he admires him and his wife Tracy, everything starts
to make sense. Once you find out Mills wife Tracy's head is in the box
you are left speechless with eyes glued to the screen and cannot look
away. John Doe's famous line, "It seems that Envy is my sin" is one of
the biggest twists in movie history. And finally telling Detective
Mills, "Become vengeance, Become wrath" is still one of the spookiest
lines spoken on film to date. When Doe is shot and everything is over,
you honestly have no idea how you feel. Its an assortment of feelings
like amazement, sorrow, shock and disbelief. A great film is a film
that you can watch over and over again and not get bored. This was one
of those movies for me.This is by far my favorite movie off all time
and if you watch this classic, maybe it will become a personal favorite
of yours as well.

******
19 September 2009
7
USP of the movie: Basic story line Worst part: Though many viewers
would not concur with me, but movie ended like a damp squib. It was
more like an M Night Shyamalan movie, which ends and sort of nobody
knows that it ended; till you get the closing titles ;)This movie revolves around a psychotic serial killer, who is shown
inspired by Dante's (Mythological) act of punishing doers of 7 deadly
sins, by using their own sins as the means of mutilation.The whole plot was brilliant and this is one of those movies which
leaves indelible memories in the viewers mind. Nothing wrong in the end
though; well i myself could not think about a better ending from
hindsight but candidly it gave me the feeling that end could not live
up to my expectations. Though, there would be people who would strictly
be of different opinion. It would have been a brilliant brilliant
novel, but showing it on the screen has taken patina off.Though, this movie certainly is worth watching. But please complete it
in one sitting. I would give it 7 on 10.

******
29 July 2009
9
This film is a fantastic piece. One of the best you'll see from any
genre. The story propels you forward right from the start and doesn't
stop until the final scene. This propulsion starts early once the main
title sequence begins. It's mesmerizing, and sets the mood brilliantly.
Even the end credits are done in such a way that becomes unique to the
story. The locations, production design, and cinematography work
seamlessly to create such a perfect world, that's found in no other
film. In addition, the two leads, Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt, are so
diametrically opposed in almost every way, creating an interesting
chemistry on screen. As often as I've seen this film, I never tire of
it.

******
27 December 2008
10
If you were Mills what would you do? I wonder what those who so
vigorously oppose the death penalty would have done if they were in the
place of Mills; if they honestly could place themselves in his
position? Seven presents an interesting prologue for a reasoned
discussion of capital punishment. One has to wonder how often those who
so vigorously oppose it are able to empathize with those who are
thoroughly victimized by evil, wanton and vicious killers. Typical of
movies they never take you into the future life of the main characters
(sequels never quite do it). It is only assumption imagined by the
author or viewer. However, the discussion is valid in debating the
future of Mills vis a vis Somerset's philosophy, John Doe's philosophy,
and Mills chosen course in the "wrath" of the moment, as well as the
likely course if things had continued in the legal system, and the
insanity defense was chosen. In any case Seven provides an opportunity
for meaningful thought on the subject.

******
25 September 2008
7
(Part review) The 6th and 7th were talked about by John Doe but only a
6th death occurs? I was expecting more of a "completion" with 7.Even the genius, Somerset said "There have been 2 deaths, you can
expect 5 more".Mills was a good rookie character, seen better though, Somerset (and
Morgans ace performance) worked well sleuthing at the library and with
the pizza parlour/FBi guy, but I've also seen slightly better. Good
cinematography but Saw is taking this to a better level, also for
cinematography and suspense.Se7en was mysterious with the sins being committed and when they would
expect the next, but it didn't completely gel.The film is shocking though.

******
2 August 2008
10
I don't know how to describe why this movie is so good, so i decided
just to write 7 reasons why i liked it: 1. It has an unpredictable plot
line (you think you know what will happen next, but you don't).2.There were shown a few original ways to die.3. The movie was very shocking (so it makes it interesting to watch).4. Well described psychotic killers intentions.5. No boring moments (you can feel an intense in every minute).6. Good actors performance (aspecialy Kevin Spacey's performance, i
couldn't imagine him playing a psychotic killer).7. Clever cops (the detectives used interesting ways to get
information).

******
5 June 2008
8
The scene in which David Mills(Brad Pitt) shows his anger towards a
news reporter(actually the murderer in disguise) is perhaps the most
important scene in the movie.This scene asserts that David is the
eligible "Anger" victim.In my opinion the movie is not about capturing
the murderer but the craftiness the murderer shows to complete his
mission.Honestly think of Se7en with different ending then perhaps
se7en would have ended in trash bin.The combination of Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt was definitely a
strength to se7en.Kevin Spacey as cool John Doe was perhaps the
strongest performance in this movie.All victims faced violent deaths
and se7en would remain etched in the viewers mind for a long time.I
wonder if girls loved this movie.8 for se7en

******
9 February 2007
9
*Se7en SPOILERS* Homicide Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is on his last
week of work, and is partnered with the new kid in town, Detective
David Mills (Brad Pitt), and as this partnership starts, they begin to
face a very vicious serial killer who murder according to the Seven
Deadly Sins.This story is not going to have any happy ending, and especially not
for Mills and his wife Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow)...Intense, scary, really well-written, with top notch production
designers and cinematographers, who create a very unhealthy and
dangerous looking metropolis, 'Se7en' is absolutely a movie to buy and
put in one's collection, especially if they love well-thought out
thrillers.You can see echoes of this still today; as an example, in the movie
'Saw', where the Jigsaw Killer seems to have a moral code not too
dissimilar from John Doe (Kevin Spacey)'s one.But be careful, because it's certainly not for the weak of heart.Se7en: 9/10.

******
7 February 2007
7
This film was OK. It was very dark and not very watchable at times. It
definitely ranks up there with other films of it's genre, but you
wonder why Hollywood keeps churning out these dark, morose films
without any to cheer about. You know Morgan never fails to deliver and Pitt was also excellent.
Very suspenseful. Kept me on the edge of my seat and has a lot of those
type of scenes that make you jump out of your seat and scared the heck
out of you. This movie is non stop thrills and chills not a great date
movie though, tends to scare to point where your shaking at the end of
the movie.I'm not a fan of Fincher films except for 'The Game'. I'm not into
worshipping serial killers because guess what: it breeds more serial
killers.

******
26 May 2006
10
this film is purely sick and purely magnificent. it is about two
police, David mills (brad Pitt) and William sommerset (morgan freeman)
investigating murders which appear to be from a killer using the seven
deadly sins for his moto. the murders are in graphic detail and this
movie will truly disturb you and stay with you a long time (look out
for the sloth scene). with quotes such as 'Wanting people to listen,
you can't just tap them on the shoulder anymore. You have to hit them
with a sledgehammer, and then you'll notice you've got their strict
attention', you just know 'john doe'(Kevin spacey' is one sick mentally
disturbed man. the twist will blow you away and David fincher directs
one of the greatest films to be made in my mind.

******
10 December 2005
10
My three all time favorite actors in one movie. Brad Pitt, Morgan
Freeman, and Kevin Spacey. A story line, plot and twists that can not
compare to anything I've ever seen. The best twist and conclusion to a
movie that surprisingly came as a surprise. Also the music was awesome,
it made the movie as good as it was. I love it!!!I've seen all the footage and extra stuff on the DVD. and now I'm just
trying to add some more words so that this web site will actually let
me post a comment on their page. I just wanted to say a little
something not write an essay... I'm not a very good writer as you can
tell so now I'm just rambling... you can stop reading now cause all of
this doesn't matter.

******
27 July 2005
10
i haven't a bad word to say on this movie except the fact that it may
have been a wee bit slow for my liking but that doesn't falter the
acting skills, the horror and the sheer genius script in this movie.
kevin spacey was totally terrifying and brad pitt was in his best role
and i don't rate him very highly as an actor. watch troy, you'll know
what I'm talking about. morgan freeman delivers yet another masterpiece
and seven is simply the greatest serial killer movie of all time.
forget scream and the shining. seven is simply a one and only movie. as
a matter of fact i think I'm gonna watch it now. i rated it nine purely
because i believe that every movie has faults even if they are hard to
see and there is no such thing as a perfect movie. but this is easily
my 3rd favourite movie of all time after Back to the Future and
Jurassic Park.

******
21 July 2005
10
"Se7en" is one of my all time favorite films. It has stayed with me
ever since my first viewing. I must have seen it 6-7 times and I still
get a quiver down my spine, when I watch certain scenes. I don't think
I can say this is true of very many other films.I think the reason why this film made such an impression on me is
because it speaks to the intellect thorough the body and visa versa. It
makes it evident that although western civilization has subscribed to
the vision of the separation between body/mind, we cannot separate
these to entities in our experience of reality. We cannot exactly
determine whether we make decisions based upon gut-reactions or if we
make them through reasoning.The first part of the film plays mainly upon the capacity of the viewer
at imagining physical pain. The best example being the pimp who has
been lying in his bed for a year, but who is still alive. The first
time I saw that scene, I felt nauseous and disgusted. I thought of it
as a straight forward gut-reaction, this man who has suffered such
pain, and he is still alive. The darkness of the city, the bleakness of the future for people living
there coupled with the acute presence of tenderness in the characters
also strikes me. Once again I had a very physical reaction to the scene
where Somerset speaks Mills' wife about her being pregnant. Although he
himself has chosen not to bring up children in such a harsh world he
says "If you decide to have them, spoil them every way that you can."
Every time I see this scene I find myself crying.When we finally reach the end of the film, when we are transported from
the rainy dark city to the open and nowhere-to-hide place where John
Doe wants to deliver his package. The dialog of the serial killer has
the same effect on me every time - I get a stomach ache... The
brilliance of it all being that I cannot exactly explain where this
stomach ache comes from. Do I get a stomach ache simply because this
man is such an eloquent incarnation of evil? Or is it mainly because I
cannot help but agree with some of the things that he is saying? "Only
in a world this shitty could you even try to say these were innocent
people and keep a straight face. But that's the point. We see a deadly
sin on every street corner, in every home, and we tolerate it. We
tolerate it because it's common, it's trivial."John Doe has a lot in common with Somerset, who also feels despair at
the way of the world: "I just don't think I can continue to live in a
place that embraces and nurtures apathy as if it was virtue."John Doe's actions, his evil master plan marks him as an insane person,
who has transgressed the taboos of a "civilised" society, even though
his deed was to punish other transgressors. Throughout the film we have had to imagine all the terrible deeds that
John Doe performed on people of - granted - questionable moral
dispositions. We get to see him, and listen to his tale. However
appalling his actions are, the actual fact that I as a viewer can agree
with some of the things that he is saying turns the physical nausea of
imagination from the first part into a kind of intellectual nausea...
How can I agree with him even a little bit? This in turn once again
creates a physical reaction - a stomach ache. I get a physical reaction
as a response to my own reasoning. It reminds me that we all have some type of evil within us, we want
pedophiles and evil lawyers to get what they deserve. We can imagine
doing something to put things right. But we wouldn't ever do it - that
would make us insane. We can imagine this exactly they way the film has
let us imagine the pain afflicted, but not let us see it. In short, my fascination with this film comes from the fact that it
speaks to the intellect through the body and visa versa. It shows me
how experience cannot really be separated into body/soul. At the same
time as it shows me exactly how much I experience the mind and the body
to be two separated entities. A true masterpiece!

******
16 April 2005
10
After the rare experience of seeing such a stunningly crafted film I
spent some time thinking what I should say on IMDb. But I find that
many others have had the same reactions and opinion, and explained them
as well as I could.I do wonder why its IMDb rating isn't higher. This is easily a 9.5 film
across the board. If only one thriller out of 100 would be this good.
Wow.I also wonder why IMDb insists on 10 lines of text for a submission.
But it does prod me to add: if you like thrillers and can stomach some
very, very strong scenes, don't miss this one.Is that enough lines?

******
28 March 2005
10
This film has everything!Suspense, Thrills! Possibly the best film i
have ever watched!!! Brad Pitts character is really believable. They
way that each murder is difference and the cleverness and obvious
cunning of the perpetrator is just fantastic. Although many of my
friends thought that the film dragged on for too long,i think this just
added to the build up to the finally climactic scenes. The sub story
about Brad Pitts Character is (in some places) a little confusing and
perhaps a tad boring. Morgan Freemans character is cool and calm
through out.I really think you should see this film.It leaves on the edge of your
seat until the end and the way the actor interact is an added bonus.

******
21 March 2005
10
Should we be punished for the sins we commit? Well the bad guy in this
movie believes so. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt star as veteran and
novice cops trying to solve a smart, ruthless, serial killer trying to
teach the world a lesson. This movie was unbelievable and I mean this
in a good way. There was a bit of gore so it is not for the weak at
heart but the story line was flawless. Each scene was executed
brilliantly and Freeman and Pitt were at their best. At first look this
movie is just a smartly written thriller but there are a lot of pieces
that could go unnoticed if not looked at close enough. Give this movie
your full attention. Gwyneth Paltrow also gave a sweet and believable
performance and the part of the serial killer was played to perfection
but it is the plot of this movie that I thought was wonderful. If you
like suspense you can't afford to miss this film.

******
14 March 2005
10
The best film ever by far. every time I see it I discover something
new, something I hadn't realized before. Neat, just perfect. I can't
find a flaw. Great actors (not so sure about Miss Paltrow) and
performances. See how the characters are deeply affected by the
murders, haw they change and how the weather is even relevant to the
plot. The aesthetics of each scene convey the overall mood in the film.
The use of light and shadows, I know it has been thoroughly calculated.
The final message about sin -figure it out by yourself! The director is
fabulous and you prove it again when you see Fight club - but that's
another movie

******
8 March 2005
10
This film out-an-out frightens me every time I watch it, having seen it
last about a month ago on IFC, Brad Pitt in his only decent role and
the unforgettable Morgan Freeman pull their characters off to a
T(Dumbest phrase in the English language ever!) Ambient and just plain
disturbing score by David Bowie, Brian Eno and Trent Reznor really set
the mood of the film, brilliant editing for opening and ending
credits(For full effect, get the Criterion disc!) and the film editing
itself is visceral and creepy. The crime scenes scared the Bejesus out
of me, Greed being the scariest, lumps of flesh on a scale to balance
his wallet?! Really frickin' creepy, and the ending is still under
debate on what really occurred, how creepy is that? Classic film, scary
as hell, but worth the nightmares, Ten,

******
29 October 2004
10
Seven is unique movie in very many respects. It belongs to that subset
of movies that combines thriller with aspects of religion, though,
without resorting to supernatural forces (Stigmata, Green Mile, etc.)
which turn off many people, including me. The movie is indeed an
epic-it is the epic of one person, a serial killer, who weaves together
his seven murders with the seven deadly sins, such that each victim is
a practitioner of the sin, hence making him/her complicit in his/her
murder according to the murderer. Though the serial killer cannot be
the protagonist by definition, the charisma that he commands and the
legendary feat that he accomplished dispels the Foucaultian myth that
"the Man is Dead." Just one, simple man, through ingenious plotting and
scheming, creates a religiously inspired masterpiece and leaves the
rest of us in "shock and awe." The darkness of the movie is unrivaled.
I first saw in Turkey, and later many many times in Chicago, and the
revealed darkness makes more sense in an American context. Since
Bladerunner, I have not encountered a movie so dark and captivating
nonetheless. Apart from the fabulous plot, characters contribute a lot
to this success: Brad Pitt is the impatient, young, high tempered
tragic hero, a role he will turn to many many years later in Troy.
Morgan Freeman-the great detective as always. And Gywenth Paltrow does
a great job as well. This movie is the defining movie-masterpiece of
the 1990s and a must see for anyone.

******
25 October 2004
8
Without blowing too much smoke up David Fincher's blowpipe, this has to
be one of the finest 21st Century horror movies that has managed to
pass the censor's blade.Look for tension - it's there. Look for disturbing images - it's there.
Look for quality acting - it's there. Look for the future of the genre
- it's there. And then some.Put the disc/tape in, and prepare yourself for nothing less than your
favourite theme park ride whilst being spiked with LSD on a Tuesday.
It's that good.Many have commented on this movie, but the only experience IS the
experience. Enjoy - if you claim the status of 21st Century Boy/Girl.
If not, stick to Hammer. (4.5 / 5)

******
25 February 2004
10

An interesting story; a thriller that spins the audience as much as it
spins
the characters.  One of my favorite movies:  really everything you could
ask
for.  David Fincher directs a really good movie, and Brad Pitt, Morgan
Freeman, Gwyneth Paltrow, and another "mystery actor" all give good
performances.
There are a few flaws, but they can be excused as a result of the depth
and
intensity of the characters.  The ending is a little disappointed (and
somewhat unexpected), but the viewer will stay attentive throughout.
Definitely worth watching, and definitely worth watching again.  Seven is
as
intense as movie as has been made in the past decade.


******
6 February 2004
10

This is the best thriller David Fincher has made, and most likely the best
thriller ever made. The suspense, the atmosphere, the gruesome theme and
basic idea of a serial killer killing people by the seven deadly sins is
fascinating. The plot is great, you never lose interest, and it keeps
evolving for every passing minute. The pacing is great. The acting is great,
the actors all do their job perfectly. The characters are believable and
their actions are understandable. The whole movie is a cinematic
masterpiece, and it truly deserves the praise it is getting. The ending
alone has become history in modern film-making; never has an ending been
more perfect, more intense or more genius. The whole movie is extremely
well-thought out, but the ending alone is a masterpiece. It should be used
as an example(and probably is) in film schools, to teach film students how
to master true cinematic power. I recommend this to anyone who has just a
little interest in thrillers, and who can take the violence. Truly a
masterpiece. 10/10

******
18 December 2003
10

First off, all the stuff that has already been said but should be
reiterated
anyway: Writing, Plot, Acting, Cinematography, Directing are all A+ here.
But the thing that really strikes me about this film is how
sympathetically
John Doe is portrayed. This is rarely done (if ever) in mainstream cinema
because it alienates a good portion of the audience. Se7en does it in a
great way, however, because while the portrayal may be sympathetic, it
doesn't make the mistake of making him an anti-hero. While the movie
understands the reasons for his crimes, it still recognizes that he is a
monster. Not for everyone, but deffinately a movie worth
seeing.

******
14 December 2003
10

I'm at Wal-Mart browsing through the VHS section and looking aimlessly
through multiple movies that I've never heard of or cared of.  Then I
stumbled on a masterpiece dubbed "Se7en"  I read the back of it and it
seemed like I would like the topic and genre.  I watched the night I
bought
it and let's just say, that this is the first movie I rewound and watched
again."Best movie...ever"  -Fat comic book store owner off of The
Simpsons

******
9 November 2003
10

So many crappy killer flicks show the killer throughout the film.  Seven
is
told entirely from to point of view of the detectives.  And there's no
stupid ending where the killer is revealed to have been one of characters
the whole time.  Deranged killers do not live among us in society.  They
are
severely disturbed individuals who distance themselves from the public.
Seven accurately portrays this type of character.  The cinematography is
beautiful and the chase scene is really cool.  Morgan Freeman is great as
usual and Brad Pitt is hilarious as, what I think, the comic relief.
Seven
should be regarded as a classic crime drama.

******
5 November 2003
10

One of the best movies I've ever seen.
Great acting and magnificent story line produced this excellent
movie.
The story left us wonder.
Who actually won in the end? This movie leave the audience plenty of room
to
imagine, to think and to define this world. Simply one of the best movies
ever :)

******
31 October 2003
9

Se7enRating: 9 out of 10. Directed by David Fincher.When I first saw 'Se7en' eight years ago, I thought that I'd never see it
again. The first viewing left me in a horrified and miserable mood. Even
though I felt the movie was really well made, the dark empty feeling was so
intense. Eight years later, I find myself viewing 'Se7en' for the eighth
time. So on average, I see this movie once a year. It is still intense to
view, but much easier to take in, yet on each viewing, I notice little
details that I missed on previous viewings.'Se7en' follows the story of a deranged killer John Doe played brilliantly
by Kevin Spacey. John Doe viciously kills his victims, treating his acts as
sentences for those who sin.Investigating the murders are Detective Somerset played by Morgan Freeman,
and Detective Mills played by Brad Pitt. As their investigation goes deeper,
the two detectives find themselves subjugated in John Doe's
plan.Some quotes from 'Se7en':William Somerset (Morgan Freeman): If we catch John Doe and he turns out to
be the devil, I mean if he's Satan himself, that might live up to our
expectations, but he's not the devil. He's just a man.William Somerset (Morgan Freeman): This guy's methodical, exacting, and
worst of all, patient. David Mills (Brad Pitt): He's a nut-bag! Just because the f#@ker's got a
library card doesn't make him Yoda! John Doe (Kevin Spacey): We see a deadly sin on every street corner, in
every home, and we tolerate it. We tolerate it because it's common, it's
trivial. We tolerate it morning, noon, and night. Well, not anymore. I'm
setting the example. And what I've done is going to be puzzled over, and
studied, and followed... forever. 

******
17 October 2003
10

For those of you who have not seen Se7en, i suggest you don't see it after
a
heavy meal. Why? Because the murders, where victims are chosen using the
seven deadly sins, are, how shall i say it?... Rank.And if you do watch it, watch out of the Sloth murder. I watched Se7en a
couple of days ago and the Sloth murder is STILL freaking me out. And i
don't mean every now and then, but i'm talking about ALL the
time!It is still an excellent film, but be prepared to be haunted by the
visions
they portray

******
8 September 2003
10

This movie is so unbelieveably good. If you like thrillers, this is a must.
It's actually even better than "Silence of the Lambs", and a little bit more
shocking. Brad Pitt & Morgan Freeman are excellent in their characters, and
Kevin Spaceys outstanding "input" in the end is absolutely awesome.The first time I saw this movie I was so impressed, I just ran down to the
videoshop and bought it. You simply HAVE to watch this movie, it is so well-acted, well-directed and
has an exceptional script. 10/10 - a masterpiece

******
22 August 2003
9

It is hard to sum up the greatness of this movie. The dialogue captures
the
complexity of characters in conflict with themselves. Of course, the words
would be nothing without the delivery of the incredible cast. The film
rises
to a crescendo, and crashes its way into your memory permanently. It was
one
of the first four DVDs that I purchased many years ago. If you get a
chance,
search out a copy of the original screenplay. It stays a little truer to
the
theme, but didn't have the same ending as the final movie.

******
17 May 2003
9

Se7en is and always will be an excellent movie.  Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman,
and Gwyneth Paltrow led a wonderful cast.  The cast and crew gave me so much
more than what I expected.  It is an amazing movie in which I will never
forget.  It also contains the best ending that I have ever seen in my
life.

******
24 April 2003
10

Maybe I will shoot myself for saying that one day.  It might even be
possible I will want to take those words back when I finish this review. 
Still, at this particular moment I cannot think of an American Suspense
Thriller that has ever been as beautiful and compelling as this unique
serial-crime drama.
  Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are both amazing and play well off of one
another, Freeman especially.  Gwyneth Paltrow does a brilliant job with her
brief stint in the film.  Kevin Spacey's portrayal of John Doe is
uncompromisingly haunting and utterly disturbing.  This all wrapped up with,
what at the time was the most courageous ending in years.Se7en:  "10 crows be-headed out of 10"

******
24 April 2003
9

Morgan Freeman has always been an extremely distinctive actor, be it his
hair, his voice or even his general appearance. But he is also an excellent
one, with this 1995 thriller being one of his finest roles to
date.
At first you think this film is just your bog-standard serial killer
thriller, albeit an impressively shot one. However, as the film progresses,
you realise that this film also deals with serious moral issues (witness the
killer's denial that he has killed 'innocent' victims) and generally exudes
such an overwhelming sense of depression it's hard to believe sometimes that
you are watching the supposed real world.
Throw in extremely brutal and sick killings, with the razor-edged dildo
being a particularly gruesome standout, and excellent performances from
Freeman, Paltrow and Pitt (who's arrogant, hot-headed Detective Mills is the
template for his electrifying performance as Tyler Durden in the director's
later film Fight Club.) But the real honours must go to Kevin Spacey. His
serial killer 'John Doe' is a terrific role to play and he does so with
admirable flair. The expression on his face when he is about to be shot by
Mills makes your skin crawl and your flesh tingle. All in all, this is an
extremely impressive film, which really needs to be seen on DVD in all its
gory glory. Although perhaps not quite as brilliant as Fight Club, it is a
journey into a place that you will never want to enter.
Ever.

******
20 February 2003
10

"Seven" was one of the best detective thrillers I've seen in
years.
Fast paced, somewhat realistic despite Pitt's terrible acting ability in
almost everything he does.  A notable scene comes to mind with that
said.......where he's got the gun pointed at Spacey and screaming when he
knows what's in the box........that has got to be some of the WORST
acting
I've ever seen.  I believe that Keanu Reeves might be able to do a better
job, or maybe even Kathy Ireland would have done a better job as well.
Anyway, despite all of that, the movie is STILL quite gripping.  And yes,
just because someone is a bad actor/actress doesn't mean that the movie
they
play in can't be great! Seven is one of those examples!  Morgan Freeman,
one
of the greatest American actors today held that movie together along with
Spacey as far as I'm concerned!   Definitely worth a look!

******
5 February 2003
10

Se7en is about two cops, there is Detective Williams Somerset(Morgan
Freeman), who is sick of his job and thinking about retiring. And there
there is Detective David Mills(Brad Pitt), who just moved into town, he's
kind of a loud mouth and though guy. Anyways, Somerset and Mills get
assigned to work on this murder where people are being killed by the seven
deadly sins. As the story develops a little bit more, you will be amazed at
how brilliant Se7en is. The acting by everybody was great and the whole
plot, music and atmosphere were amazing. I would give Se7en
10/10

******
31 January 2003
10

I like this film more with each viewing.
Brad Pitt & Morgan Freeman are both superb
as a pair of detectives on the trail of
serial killer John Doe (Kevin Spacey). The
film is rich in imagery and graphic in
its depiction of violence. The story is
great and kept me guessing till the end.
A must see work. 10/10

******
15 July 2002
9

If crime is your thing, then this is a splendid movie for you.  As murders
happen according to the 7 deadly sins.  Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are
excellent in this crime drama. As well as supported by a great script and
great supporting acting.  I have watched this at least 10 times and still it
ranks up there as one of the best of its kind.

******
5 July 2002
10

This is one of the best movies I have ever scene.  Everyone that is into
thrillers and horror and suspense should go and see this movie.  Whoever
thought of this is a genius.  I love all genuinely scary movies but this
one tops the charts.

******
22 June 2002
9

The amount of feelings that we experience watching this movie is
incredible...An emotional rollercoaster that culminates in the very end of
the movie with a brilliant Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman, but a genious
Kevin
Spacey...Spacey really reveals in this movie. He's such a great actor that
he makes you hate him, the true measure of an artist..either loved or
hated,
and Kevin does this very well..

******
20 May 2002
8

I must say this is one of the best movies of all time but there are a
contradiction, a logic mistake in the movie that I can't get
around.The fulfillment of John Doe's horrifying plan is based around David Mills
(Brad Pitt) and his wife (Gwyneth Paltrow). John Doe envy Mills wife, that's
is sin. And when Mills kills him he is punished and in the same time Mills
wrath is punished by letting Doe win and the fact that is wife is dead.The plan of John Doe has been planned for a long time. The victim of sloth
has been tied up in his bed precisely a year. So we can be sure of the fact
that John Doe has planned it at least a year.We also learn that Mills and his wife have recently moved to the nameless
city because of Mills new job. They have only lived there four a week or
something.Then we can see that when John Doe started his sinister plan he didn't know
about Mills and his Wife. His sin wasn't obvious.Of course we could say that he could have picked another woman, another
victim for his own sin (envy). But then it wouldn't have been an inspector.
Freeman character is unwed so he is excluded. It had to be an investigator
of the gruesome murders to have worked the way he had planned.This is just a thought that I got. But I don't see anything wrong about it.
For me there exist a loophole in Se7en, which is a big
disappointment.But hey, ignore that and have a lot of fun watching this otherwise
spectacular and horrifying movie.9/10 (degraded after the discovery)

******
13 December 2001
9

This was/is a fantastic movie. They don't come much better than this. I was
actually hesitant to rent it after missing it at the theatre and hearing so
much about it from everyone. Fortunately,I didn't hear anything to ruin it
for me and finally did end up getting it. The story is so completely
original and the acting is above board also. I wish there were as well
thought out and acted as this one,instead we get stuck with garbage like
'Not Another Teen Movie' and the like. If only Hollywood would get back to
art,rather than the almighty dollar...

******
11 December 2001
8

I found this movie very disturbing.  Over all I rate it very highly, I
won't
say I enjoyed the film but I would rate it a movie that you should
see...once...and only once.  Morgan Freeman is, as always, a treat to
watch
on screen.

******
11 November 2001
10

Se7en is simply the best serial killer movie released to this day. Silence
of the Lambs is a close second. But Hannibal's motivation was some sort of
insanity. John Doe has a purpose, which , while it might not be what most
of
us would define "sanity" as, is believable. Pitt is phenomenal, Freeman is
his usual brilliant self. And the ending..
is unforgettable.

******
19 August 2001
7

**** = A masterpiece to be recorded in the books and never
forgotten***1/2 = A classic in time; simply a must see*** = A solid, worth-while, very entertaining piece**1/2 = A good movie, but there are some uneven elements or noticeable
flaws** = May still be considered good in areas, but this work has either serious
issues or is restrained by inevitable elements deemed inescapable (e.g.,
genre)*1/2 = Mostly a heap of nothing sparked by mildly worthwhile
momentsBOMB = Not of a viewable quality- Se7en = ***- Rated "R" (for grisly, gory images, and for language)"SE7EN" combines a sophisticated, crime plot, with a fun, heavy-metal type
quality lingering in the background.  The atmosphere is grim and unsettling:
perfect and delicious.  The first 3/4 of it are absorbing and gripping; an
above-average thriller.  As the film moves onward, the first few of the
climactic sequences ease up, and the killer is revealed.  But that's just
the beginning...Personally, I hated the killer.  I thought he/she was annoying and typical. 
Also, I think that screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker made a mostly
unnoticeable but wounding mistake: the killer is "out in the open" for too
long.  I think that his/her mysticism, which kept tension for the first hour
and a half, was the coolest thing going, but it was killed in the end, like
a vampire burning in the open sun.But don't let this stop you from picking it up with a box of pizza on the
way home from work - you'll like it almost definately.

******
1 August 2001
7

In my opinion this is one of the finest murder mysteries to have come out in
the 90's.  Sure, the movie had a fairly unoriginal plot and structure, but
so did Gladiator and Braveheart, and they won best picture.  But that's not
even the point, the point is, the movie works with the structure and plot. The film is a well put together investigation film with an interesting idea.
 Add to that, the fine performances of Morgan Freeman and John Doe(I can not
tell you who plays him for fear of giving away something).  And usually I
don't like Brad Pitt but he fits his role in this film perfectly.  Also,
there is the new and innovative shooting style of David Fincher which have
become some of his signature trademarks: the dull lighting, bleak
atmosphere, always accompanied by a feeling of dread.  Some people have
complained about how it always rains in the film but I feel that it only
adds to the movie's distinct feel.

******
27 January 2001
7

*MAY CONTAIN SPOILERS*
Eerie, atmospheric and particularly gruesome crime drama, understandably
rate R. The constant analogies between this movie and "SILENCE OF THE
LAMBS," should be spared. The differences outweigh the
similarities.The disturbing premise is about a homicidal lunatic killing people he feels
that are violating the proverbial seven deadly sins (Sloth, Pride,
Covetousness, Lust, Envy, Gluttony and Anger, for those like myself, who
occasionally dozed through Catechism). The picture starts in a low whir and builds intensity, with applied layers.
The tempo throughout is gloomy, dark and pervasive, and frankly, it works
well for the film. The script is full of loop-de-loop twists and is
explicit. It doesn't bore and doesn't skim, which is a credit to the
screenwriters. Effectively, you won't feel your IQ has been undervalued. The
performances are well above average.The major problem with SEVEN is the tepid ending. For the final scenes,
you'll have to stretch your suspension of belief from here to Moscow and
back. I simply just didn't buy it. The dimension between the severity of the
crimes and the weak, impudent and predictable ending, just didn't quite
jibe. The screenplay zipped along and felt like it simply...ran out of gas.


******
25 October 2000
10

I would have to say that Se7en is one of the best movies that are available
today.  It is dark, moody, exciting, suspenseful, and just an all-around
good movie.  Morgan Freeman delivers a top notch performance and R. Lee
Ermey (Drill Sgt. Hartman from "Full Metal Jacket") delivers a surprising
performance.  If you didn't get a chance to see this one in the theatres,
you should go out and buy the DVD or at least the video.  You will not be
disappointed.

******
5 October 2000
10

By far the most thought provoking movie of the 90's.  While I won't go
into
detail, because others already have, I would just like to emphasize the
brilliance of the dialogue between Mills and John Doe in the final few
seems.  It is incredible.

******
29 August 2000
10
I can't spoil this film for you. It is very rough. It is very violent. It
has incredible suspense. The direction is absoloutley amazing. Darius
Khondi's photography is amazing. Brad Pitt is terrific, as always. Morgan
Freeman and Gwyneth Paltrow are very good also. This movie is riveting. See
it once, see it twice.

******
10 April 2000
7

If ever a movie was completely represented in one of its characters, "Se7en"
was it.  (possible spoilers) The two preachers of the film are John Doe, the
character portrayed by Kevin Spacey, and the director, David Fincher. 
Fincher's film has a purpose just like that of John Doe's murders, to shock
American into recognition of its major faults: its sins.  Unfortunately
Fincher's point is lost in his bombastic and brazen style which dominates
all of his films.  Fincher seems to be quite the cynic in his view of the
world.  In "Se7en" there's not a person in the world, or at least NYC,
that's not a sinner, and we're living on a veritable hell on earth.  "The
Game" presents a paranoid world where no one's life and security are
concrete and "Fight Club" shows us just how superficial of a culture we are.
 Unfortunately, Fincher also seems to be an optimist at heart, and this is
where his films lose their potency.  At the end of each film he tries to
give some glimpse of hope.  At the end of "Se7en" Morgan Freeman quotes
Hemingway, saying "'The world is a fine place and worth fighting for.' I
agree with the second part."   At the end of "The Game" it turns out the
paranoia was only part of an intricate joke and "Fight Club" falls apart on
itself when(among other things) it tries to present some sort of solution,
which was, best as I could tell, love.  If only Fincher didn't try to
provide some sort of happy ending(albeit minimal as in this film) his films
could be much more powerful(like Neil Labute's "In the Company of Men" and
"Your Friends and Neighbors".)  He makes his point and then unfortunately
loses it in an overblown style and ludicrous attempts at happy endings. 
Compared to the rest of his work though, "Se7en" is his most effective film
to date with fine performances by Freeman and Spacey.

******
17 November 1999
7

A rather good movie, but disturbing isn't quite strong enough to describe
it.  This movie made me want to go home and stare at the wall.  Those who
enjoyed The Silence of the Lambs or Copycat should enjoy this as well, but
be prepared for some gruesome scenes.

******
4 August 1999
10

Everyone who has seen this movie has felt something, whether it be their
innermost fears or their honest horror.  David Fincher created a visual
masterpiece, with wonderful ensemble performances and chilling writing.  The
movie grabs you from the very start and doesn't let go even after the
haunting last Hemingway words. Seven is fantastic.

******
31 July 1999
10

This movie is awesome! For once...a movie that doesn't have a happy
ending.
I loved this movie! It gave me chills and my heart was pouding so hard at
the amazing finale! I can't say enough about this movie. Morgan Freeman is
always good but i actually liked Brad Pitt in this movie too...and with
Gwyneth Paltrow you can't go wrong! Rent this great movie
tonite!

******
19 July 1999
9

This film (along with Copycat) sets the standard for engrossing
serial-killer flicks.  Freeman and Spacey are typically excellent, but Brad
Pitt surprises with an excellent performance himself.  A thinking-man's
psycho film. 9 out of 10 stars *********

******
14 July 1999
10

Like the Silence Of The Lambs this movie is a reminder of the disgusting,
cruel things that go on in the world, however disturbing is going too far.
Disturbing is when innocent people are killed in a crossfire, disturbing
is
crimes by racists, I find that the only disturbing moment in this entire
movie is when gwyneth paltrow dies. I don't find it disturbing cuz' as
John
Doe says "These people were far from innocent. To me this movie is a test
to
see how much a person can handle. This movie is a masterpiece. Just a
reminder.

******
14 April 1999
8

I saw this film for the second time the other night just to see if I can
understand and appreciate what all the hype is/was about. Well, I didn't
understand it this time either. I'm not saying that Se7en is a bad film,
because it is not. The film is quite good -- but not as good as everybody
else seems to think -- and not nearly as great as the masterpiece it has
so
often been compared with: The Silence of the Lambs.However, great acting, great cinematography, great production design,
haunting music, and a great script. But, somehow it seems as if the sum of
these parts is *less* than the value of the individual part. That is
strange
-- and a shame. Should I blame the director?As for the great acting: Morgan Freeman must be mentioned, he's almost
always brilliant. And -- naturally -- Kevin Spacey in his small but
important role as John Doe. Spacey has a presence that is almost uncanny.
He
is as brilliant as ever. He's fantastic.Shame about the film though. (6/10)

******
2 February 1999
6

Very good "on-the-edge-of-your-seat" thriller that unfortunately suffers
from a predictable ending.  This one does have one of the best
"scream-scenes" that I have seen in a very long time.  Worth
watching. 

******
8 September 1998
8

I thought it was an excellent movie although there
was some disturbing content. Kevin Spacey was awesome
as the murderer. This movie is a must for thriller or
horror fans.

******
10 August 1998
10

This film is pure genius, it nearly made me give up writing altogether. But
 instead I decided to become a darker, more disturbed writer. Fincher
 directs as a pro and Morgan Freeman is a God like actor in my book.
Genius!!!!!

******
14 December 2014
3
Before watching this movie I am expecting to be entertained and getting
mindblown by the scenes that I am going to watch. But after watching
this movie, I literally got out of my room, went to the bathroom and
shouted for about 10 seconds. This movie is one of the most overrated
movies that I have ever seen in my whole life. Even if I am a big fan
of detective movies, this is one movie that I will never watch again
for the rest of my life. The dark and suspenseful environment was
supposed to be thrilling and entertaining. I was so disappointed on how
the movie flowed. It just never reeled me in. I was planning to give
this movie a 5, but the atrocious and worst ending in the genre of
detective movies showed up. So cheers for that great ending, you just
received 2 more stars down. The only upside for this movie is the
amazing cast that it has. Avoid this movie at all costs!! If you had
happen to watch it, just leave before it gets to the ending!

******
11 October 2014
10
Greetings from Lithuania."Se7en" (1995) is a true masterpiece, and i don't use this word often,
actually, i use it very rarely. This film blow me away from the first
time i saw it, and i saw it many times after. It's always engaging from
start till finish. This is one of the best stories ever told on screen.
More of it, the story isn't that really important in this movie. What
important is that you will feel your self in there, at the bottom of
Dantes inferno, this is New York you won't see in advertising pictures.One of my favorite directors (and of the best ever) master David
Fincher created an unforgettable piece of work. This film is must be
seen to understand, what a real film is about, and it's not about the
action. The ending of this film will leave you speechless.Overall, 10/10 for this motion picture, it's a true art, true cinematic
tour De force, with images and characters you won't eve forget after
witnessing "Se7en". A must watch.

******
15 July 2013
8
BEWARE!!!! HEAVY SPOILERS The ending of the movie se7en is
extraordinary to other movies. It is a thriller with John Doe having
planned the death of the rookie detective's wife and himself. In other
words, his masterpiece was for him to get shot out of anger. Kevin
Spacey takes on the role of John Doe very well as a mysterious serial
killer. He purposefully gets in the mind of the rookie homicide
detective ( Brad Pitt). His plan at the end to receive a box with his
wife's head in it is certainly very suspenseful, not knowing what would
be in the box out in the desert. The fact that the movie ends on a note
of a murderer giving himself in and and having planned his death by
Brad Pitt is certainly thrilling. it is a must watch ending.

******
10 October 2012
8
This film is really fascinating.Actor's performances are unbelievable.
So we can say this film is a really successful one.when you see this
terrible murders you are asking to yourself "who did it?".You wanna
learn it so much.Killer's killing ways are really disgusting.And you're
filling like a detective too.But last scene was really bad because
detective David Mills killed the killer that was the action which one
killer is wanting.So the killer won.Detectives wife is dead too and it
made me sad.I think everybody should watch and write reviews about this
film.I want to see more films like this.I want to say congratulation to
directors of this film.

******
10 May 2011
9
John Doe was no wonder a Roman Catholic, cause he thought people should
save themselves in the way he chose. Or he was a derivative of the
Catholics, that he believed so strong that only his ways of salvation
are just, which no doubt would lead to tyranny and dictatorship, which
we had about one hundred years ago.I, perhaps like some of you, understand, in a way, his motive, or the
feeling on those who he reckoned as sinned. Gluttony, Pride, Greed,
Wrath, Envy, Lust, Sloth, these are natural, or doom-to-be-developed
weaknesses of every human beings, we do not hate those who possess the
sins, but who indulge and self-justified, especially when we think we
are not one of them. And that, is what Detective Somerset and John Doe
would both agree with.One's just naturally think less of those who are no match with him, the
cause of which is the occur of shallowness, that's why John Doe puked
on the superficial man who he met on a subway platform, the man was
labeled as superficial only because he liked talking about the girls
the weather and other trivial things of daily lives. And he deserved
that.Shallowness itself is not a sin, but the indulgence or the blindness of
which makes it a real sin, that's why Socrate was a saint, "I know that
I know nothing".Lots of people today do have that kind of sin, the choice to lead a
superficial life, and they call it a way to fulfill the commitment of
the pursuit of happiness. "Is that supposed to be funny?"However, in the modern society of Capitalism, such sins are tolerated,
as long as they don't develop into crimes. We call it "Freedom". It's
no doubt a Protestant way to deal with such problem, and lots of us
seem to intend to keep it.

******
22 September 2010
9
I will tip toe around this claim ever so carefully, but I think it is a
relevant argument to made that this film's integrity if of equal value
to that of Silence Of The Lambs. Spacey's performance is just as
impacting as Anthony Hopkin's Lecter. There is also is mildly similar
blueprint to the script and characters, per dealing with rogue
detectives. The main difference is the psychological study of Clarice Starling's
deep relationship with Lecter, while in Seven the dichotomy of the two
officer's and their respective relationship is at the forefront. Wisdom
and novice naive brooding perseverance are at grips with one another.Needless to say, the gritty style of Fincher's direction, and the fail
proof script written by Andrew Kevin Walker are classic and
inspirational. It is a hall of fame masterpiece.

******
24 April 2010
8
David Fincher's fiercely idolized Seven is certainly an interesting and
well-made film. Finely acted, meticulously shot and composed. It very
effectively portrays the greatest city on earth as dark and Gothic,
rotting and falling to pieces, its citizens weary and confused. What
prevents Seven from being a true masterpiece is that there is very
little meaning or depth below the layers of supposed erudition. It
doesn't help to allude to Dante and Chaucer when your film has nothing
to do with their work ; it seems to me that these references were
deliberately added just to create a false sense of meaning in the minds
of viewers who don't know any better. Ah, Thomas Aquinas ! Hemingway
!!! Deep stuff this must be......well, not really, though. The film is
content to scratch the surface of difficult ideas, hinting at more
interesting things but resolutely going for the cheap thrill nine times
out of ten. John Doe is a grand and terrifying killer, but one that
exists only in the imaginary world of movies.

******
14 April 2009
5
Two detectives try to hunt down a serial killer who seems to be
attacking his victims using the seven deadly sins.David Fincher at the time of Se7en's release was the man known only as
the director who destroyed the Alien franchise, and quite right. Apart
from a stunning final that showed his potential there was simply a
collection of medium shots with none of that vintage scene stealing
fast montages and flashes that would become so effective in his future
release Fight Club and Panic Room. So there was a bit of pressure on
here as casting renowned star Freeman and most recognized newcomer Brad
Pitt about a delicate and interesting topic, and he didn't disappoint
many. Seven is now renowned as one of the finest horrors ever made.Starting off with a detective retiring and an ambitious but naïve new
cop surprise surprise we have tension. This has been handled in so many
films it is ridiculous and if you're expecting anything different in
terms of this pairing, think again. The tension between the pair is
obvious, the predictable gung-ho attitude by Pitt's Mills is soft and
Morgan's law-abiding Somerset is simply boring.So here we have 'drama' and as both are on the hunt for a serial killer
we have 'crime' and the mystery man is attacking his victims with the
deadly sins and so we have horrible murders that would label this as
'horror'. When reading descriptions I noticed this was labelled as one
of the scariest films ever. I however didn't seem to find what was so
scary. Sure the concept would have been scary if the murders had been
effectively established but the pair of detectives hardly seemed
bothered. They were mere happenings that stumbled in their way. This is
a shame as this is a debatable topic that questions religion, social
class and humanity. Apart from blood messages, you won't be jumping
behind the sofa any time soon.So Se7en simply tries to tackle too much. Horror, crime and drama are
all encoded and seemingly not enough; the inclusion of the rain
drenched city places it in noir too, as does Gwyneth Paltrow's flat
protagonist. Impressive scene settings and costume design but when
there is no plot there is no give, no adrenaline to match the mood.There is also a lack of action in this 1995 picture. A full hour had
passed before my head was inclined to be entertained. Then the final
climax was finally worth watching. Heart stopping and well acted by all
involved made Se7en moderately interesting. But despite this heavily
debated climax and odd twists, it is not worth the whole waiting around

******
21 January 2007
10
This is one off the films that reflected a new way off looking to crime
scene films. The argument is surprising and the development is most unexpected, if
you like films that require some intellectual logic, this is the one.Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman demonstrate how good is there work as
actors on giving a very real sense to the characters.Enjoy and try not to find more about the argument, let it bee
surprising... it surely is one off the best outcomes in this type off
films.Therefore it's on my list off the very bets ever.

******
14 January 2007
8
An excellent film in every department, but the unrelenting darkness of
almost every scene, and the persistent rain, made watching it slightly
irksome. Although I didn't see it credited, there must have been
someone appointed to keep the torch (flashlight) batteries fully
charged, as I have never seen such profligate use of torches, whether
hand-held or attached to weaponry. And why do film directors love rain
so much? I don't remember glimpsing the sun at all in this film - so no
contrast in the weather. However, the stark contrast between Somerset
and Mills did bring a little sunshine to my viewing. "Se7en" grabbed my
attention from the beginning and held it throughout, although I found
my credibility being stretched on occasion. It is difficult to pinpoint
these more dubious parts of the plot without giving at least some of
the story away, but viewers should be prepared for the odd raising of a
questioning eyebrow.

******
23 November 2006
7
It might be because I've seen a lot of films since it's release in 1995
that have borrowed heavily from its visual style, which was possibly
very unusual at the time (I can't remember) but this didn't ring with
me as strongly as it has with some people. It's very much a David
Fincher with decay and desaturated colour tones everywhere, lots of
grand, decaying buildings and a feeling of gloomy, low tech nostalgia
sliding in at the sides, and that's very welcome, but it's not as
gripping as some make out.It certainly isn't a *bad* film, by any stretch. The plot's well
balanced, the characters nuanced and believable (except Brad Pitt who's
such an annoying brat I can't see how anyone anywhere would hire him as
a cop) and the dialogue is good enough (although really Morgan FReeman
brings a real shine to it that Pitt can't match), with the exception of
some slightly hammy bits.The main thing that seems to have gripped everybody is the serial
killer's supposedly insanely clever twisted, creepy, dark, disturbing
plan, but I don't really think it's as creepy as all that. Saw, a far
less interesting film, was WAY creepier, although I suppose it borrowed
heavily from Seven.Also, I don't really care much about how creepy serial killers are
anyway, I think it's just a cheap titillation device.Where this film's most interesting is where Brad Pitt's character gets
his come-uppance for being such an annoying little twerp. And even that
feels a little bit cheap, there isn't a moment where he's on screen
that he doesn't irritate, which may be the point, but it's a bit much
to make an entire film about an evil serial killer just so you can give
an imaginary jackass a slap in the face.But Morgan Freeman was good...

******
3 December 2005
6
I found the film dreary. Slow paced between the action scenes, and the
action usually pretty prosaic...though well-shot The usual flotillas of
cop cars on the chase, the gun pursuits through city slums etc. Morgan
Freeman had a glum life, downer life-style, but was too little of his
life and charm was revealed to make us care. Brad Pitt was brash, and
affectionate. Kevin Spacey was Kevin Spaceyily good. The murders seemed
set-pieces of gruesomeness..unmoving - aside from the last - because
there was no sense of the humanity of the victims. Good gruesomeness is
possible - e.g The Silence of the Lambs, a brilliantly characterized
film.

******
24 September 2005
10
This is the film that single-handedly made me think of David Fincher as
a great director, all of his subsequent films only cemented the deal of
him being one of my favorites. Brad Piit & Morgan Freeman as Detectives
Mills and Sommerset are after a devious, grisly killer who murders his
victims based on the Seven Deadly Sins (Sloth, Greed, Envy, etcetera,
etc..), in this extremely well crafted, gripping, suspenseful thriller,
that never falls into the one tap that these thrillers too often fall
into, which is letting the audience get ahead of the plot. ALL of the
actors in this film are superb in their respective parts, including
Kevin Spacey who gives his best performance of his career, just
slightly edging out his part in "The Usual Suspects" in my mind. It
also features one of the greatest endings that I've ever witnessed.
Moreso, the entire film has a kind of poetic beauty and sense of grace
that comes off it that is simply mesmerizing and makes this film one
that is simply a sheer joy to come back to again and again. A must see
modern day classic, no matter how you slice it, this movie comes with
my highest recommendations.My Grade: A+2-Disc DVD Extras: Disc 1) Commentary by Director David Fincher, Actor
Brad Pitt and Actor Morgan Freeman; Second Commentary by Professor of
Film Studies/Author Richard Dyer, Screenwriter Andrew Kevin Walker,
Editor Richard Francis-Bruce, New Line President of Production Michael
De Luca and David Fincher; Third Commentary by Director of Photography
Darius Khondji, Production Designer Arthur Max, Editor Richard
Francis-Bruce, Richard Dyer and David Fincher; Fourth Commentary by
Sound Designer Ren Klyce, Composer Howard Shore (with Isolated 5.1
Music and FX Cues), Richard Dyer and David Fincher) Disc 2) Exploration of the Opening Title Sequence with 3 Angle Options
& 6 Audio Options; 7 Deleted Scenes, Extended Takes, and 2 alternate
endings with Optional Commentary by David Fincher; Production Designs
with Commentary by the Photographers; Still Photographs; The Notebooks
with Commentary by the Designers; Filmographies; Mastering for the Home
Theater with optional commentary; Theatrical Electronic press kit; and
Theatrical Trailer:DVD-ROM content: Scrpt to screen comparison; and Weblinks

******
10 February 2005
9
First off, I loved it. I'm not trying to say "this movie is terrible
and it has no plot," cause that's not the case. Se7en was interesting
to watch and had a lot of mind bending situations that made it hard to
follow. As long as you focused, you got the gist of it, but I don't see
a point to it.The Seven Deadly Sins are used as a murderer's motives. He believes
that these sins are practiced daily, and no one thinks otherwise. Now,
he takes revenge on 6 (in a way, 7) people to show that each one is
living for a wrong reason and believes that their deaths will have him
become notorious as a killer, but in the same way, a hero for showing
people the right path.I gave it a 9 out of 10 because the movie grabbed attention and played
it out in a way that made the viewer have to read the killer's mind to
follow along. Somewhat like Hannibal Lector. Plus, I loved the
beginning credits, amazing camera work.

******
19 January 2004
7

I really respect David Fincher as a director.  For starters, Alien3 wasn't
his fault and this film shows what his prowess can do under better
circumstances.  He might be the new Kubrick, who knows?This is your only spoiler warning...What has surprised me the most about Fincher is his ability to make success
out of downbeat films, just as Kubrick did.  In Alien3 it was the death of
Ripley.  Here it's the final confrontation between Mills and Doe.  This
tradition continues with The Game, Fight Club, and Panic Room.  In all these
cases, Fincher works with typical cliched material that shows its influences
all-too-well.  Only Fight Club is the most original in
conception.Pitt shows his usual excess dedication into a role, Freeman's boredom makes
all his roles indistinguishable.  Harrison Ford has the same problem, that's
why he relies on wardrobe changes to make a different face to the
audience.The whole concept of serial killers is like comedies and action movies. 
Always trying to hustle one more surprise on the audience.  This is better
constructed than 'The Usual Suspects', more stylized than 'Silence of the
Lambs', but less human.  It's the 'Hunt for Red October' of the detective
genre.This would be Fincher's "commercial" film of the three types I've listed. 
The most useful element is the design of the murder scenes and the twist
involving classic literature.Final Analysis = = Midrange Material

******
24 January 2003
8

Fincher seems to do one kind of movie - the bad movie. There's the laughably
cheesy "Panic Room" and the pretentious "Fight Club," not to mention the
execrable "Alien 3" and "The Game.""Se7en" is a lot better than these movies. Morgan Freeman gives the film
class as per usual, but Brad Pitt and Kevin Spacey stink up the screen
pretty badly (I must admit I feel an intense dislike of certain actors, and
Kevin Spacey is one of them). Thankfully, the plot is interesting, and the
ending is very un-Hollywood.

******
10 September 2000
6

This is the first movie I have seen based solely on the viewer comments I
have found on IMDb.  I'm not sure how I became aware of this film on IMDb,
possibly by its high rating.  The comments were positive, but I was
promised
a great ending.  I found the movie to be more of the same ghoulishness
which
passes for entertainment these days.  It was not my cup of tea, or, in this
case, blood.  Whatever possesses writers to dream up this stuff is beyond
me, I'm pleased to say.  This is the first film I have seen by this writer
and director, and although the combo did better, in my opinion, than the
"American Beauty" combo, there is nothing there to encourage me to see
another film by either.  This was also the first time I have seen Brad
Pitt,
who looks like my nephew, and he wasn't good at all.  I'll will give long
consideration to going out of my way to see any film from the 1900's or
2000
on the recommendation of such comments.

******
18 September 2010
2
I can't believe this movie is number 28 for all times ! It shouldn't
even be in the top 250... Law Abiding Citizen is 100 times better ! Or
SAW part 1 & 2 are much, much better than this sh7t. What got me so
angry was the poor ending..The actors were good & the story was
interesting, but it was pointless to tell it actually,nothing really
happened...it was 2 hours of my life that nobody could give me back. I
seriously can't believe that's so high in the top chart... Don't get me
wrong , i like David Fincher movies, but this one didn't have a very
good plot.I don't have an explanation why so much people like it, maybe
for it's time it was not so bad movie,it was something new . If you
watch this movie for the first time in 2010 it will most likely
disappoint you.

******
5 December 2009
5
Now here's a good waste of pent up potential, with one of the bigger
movies of the 1996 holiday season culminating in a largely uninspiring
mixture of several elements that by all rights should have worked well
together. At least the title is very apt for what transpires, though.With both Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman throwing in their weight for
this one, there seems no plausible reason for failure, as the two
aren't only capable thespians and impressive on-screen, they've
previously done good when working on the same project, to wit Legends
of the Fall.However, this time around we are presented with a mediocre release that
dabbles a bit too much in a wide array of influences ranging from crime
sagas to supernatural thrillers. Se7en actually nails none of those
right smack on the head.It starts in 1996, presumably on Christmas Eve, as dashing detective
Brad Pitt and his commanding officer Freeman celebrate the festival by
raising toasts and chasing down psychotic criminals. This is where you
begin to notice that the movie needs to fess up to more than just it's
title: so much is held back, it is as if audiences are expected to
surmise literally everything on their own. Not necessarily a bad thing,
but Se7en doesn't do very well with its hint-sprinkling, causing more
frustration than anything else. And as every semi-intelligent moviegoer
will tell you, most cases of this ilk inevitably lead to one obvious
resolution or another, which certainly happens in this case.At any rate, these first scenes also showcase Se7en as a product very
much endorsed by the American government's infatuation with all things
touristy, as car chases and other movements traverse the city's more
glamorous and unique locales, even if geographically they don't always
seem to make too much sense put next to each other like that.Following a few dark but celebratory successes, the story fast forwards
three years to a present tense where Bong faces such tragedy he's moved
to quitting the police and switching to the life of a perpetually drunk
private eye. Conversely, the more disturbed Freedman seems to have hit
paydirt, marrying Susan, daughter of a rich businessman. She's done by
excellent Julie Araskog (Spring Subway, Dazzling, My Father and I), and
forms the first half of this movie's dominant cast, the ladies. Her
complement is Gwyneth Paltrow, finally recovered from being a thin
sliver in Three Times, and looking so sexy you can't get enough of her
sweet, giggly portrayal of bar girl Tracy Mills. Although Araskog's
northern, Boston-derived manner isn't exactly at home in a New
York-centric production (plus it's obvious she was dubbed over),
Paltrow's gorgeous visage, extensive Austin Powers in Goldmember
filmography and fluent British mean she's totally like a fish in water
here.Without these two, Se7en would be close to a total loss. Fortunately,
beyond the two female leads, it also possesses an uncanny knack for
visceral violence. This is first evinced by a brutal sequence where
Susan's wealthy dad gets clobbered over the head with a bronze Budha,
with Fincher sparing us next to no detail. This continues in a few
other scenes later on, and we commend the director for deciding to go
with it almost all the way.Another trait worthy of note is the film's unceasing attempt to throw
viewers off. Important events are played and replayed from different
perspectives on several occasions, and all seem perfectly reasonable as
the story veers ever closer to a who dunnit. So, while Se7en is
basically a blunt tale of violence, suffering, tragedy and revenge, it
nonetheless attempts to rise above its simple building blocks with an
almost clinical inability to stay still. Does this angle work? Not
nearly as well as we would have liked it to. In the end, Se7en doesn't
dish out enough interesting hints, red herrings, easter eggs or even
crusty Christmas fruitcake to really intrigue. And even in the brief
occasions when it does have you enthralled, the knowledge that sooner
or later it'll all come crushing down precludes serious contemplation.
This is no David Lynch outing.As mentioned before, none of the components introduced really get full
play. Although Pitt performs Mills to the best of his ability, and is
once more a most likable actor, his relationship with Gwyneth Paltrow's
tantalizing Tracy goes nowhere, as the girl pretty soon becomes little
more than a comic relief sidekick. The police element isn't explored
with any seriousness, featuring several cameos by R. Lee Ermery as an
officer, the Police Captain, a hapless fellow investigating the bizarre
occurrences revolving John Doe and his ersatz father. He adds very
little to Se7en, something we regret. Freedman, on the other hand, was
probably intended as a flatter character, and so we don't feel he was
robbed of opportunity as much. Overall, he carries the aloof, surgical
Ermery with acceptable prowess.In the end, for something so apparently ambitious, Se7en gives you very
little to take away and mull over, save for Paltrow in tight jeans and
minuscule outfits, but the less we know about what you do with that,
the better. A more cohesive storyline would have been preferable, and
of course injecting the thing with more elaborate, inventive
conventions is high on the list of wish-they'd-thought-of-that's.To all intents and purposes, we are giving it a pass, yet with the
females of the species looking so good and working so well in Se7en,
it's a guilty pleasure you may want to allow yourself this time of
year.Rating: * *

******
12 May 2009
6
Director David Fincher gets points for atmosphere, even if that
atmosphere is mostly unpleasant. This movie is gloomy, even for a
serial killer flick.Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman are detectives on the trail of a killer
who uses the seven deadly sins as the theme for his murders. I might
have liked this movie more if it wasn't in love with its own grunge
aesthetic -- as it is, it's the kind of film to give fanboys wet
dreams, but leaves others wondering what the fuss is about. David
Fincher would revisit the serial killer genre again with about 1,000
times more success 13 years later with "Zodiac." Also starring Gwyneth Paltrow in an early role, and Kevin Spacey,
intolerably snarky as usual as the killer.Grade: B-

******
28 August 2007
3
Watching how the two detectives (a beginner and an experienced one) are
pursuing a very intelligent serial killer is extremely well played and
directed. Alone their interactions during the investigation is worth
seeing the movie. The whole film is very much a male-type story except
the character of the wife of the young detective. The appearance of the
feminine character gives a human flavor to the work of the detectives
transforming their male-like competition into elderly-young
cooperation. Why I rate only 3 out of 10? Because the authors do not
seem to understand the fundamental concept of the film, the 7 cardinal
sins. The 7 cardinal sins are not actually sins themselves but are the
source of other sins. Example: a married man seeing a pretty woman can
feel desire to have her, but this is because men are biologically
designed like this. If he acts to have the woman despite being married
then he commits sins, but this sin is called adultery. So, in fact,
there is one voluntary sinner in the film: the serial killer. The
others - as the senior detective explains - just fail to work towards a
balanced life, towards being able to love. The conclusion, that "life
is ugly but let's work to make it better" is therefore flawed and makes
the film a technically excellent work without the spirit that
distinguishes craft work from true art.

******
8 November 2006
5
I don't know if it is me or what, but it seems I am getting used to see
similar stories like this one. Two detectives, the old experienced one
who keeps calm everywhere and is near to retirement and the young
impulsive one who does not like to be advised. It is time people in
Hollywood start using their brains, because the audience is tired of
the same trash. It is like Lethal Weapon with Glover/Gibson, but dark.OK. This movie is good, it has thrilling moments and some good actors
(not all), but to me it is just another detectives movie. I do not see
any originality here. I have seen the same sadistic scenes including
the famous "blood writing" in tons of films already.---SPOILERS---There are also some stupidity/plot holes in the movie:1) Do you really need 20-30 swat men to break into the apartment of ONE
criminal that is probably alone taking a bath?2) The zombie thing. This really made me laugh. It is impossible that a
man is still alive after being tied on a bed one year. It seemed taken
from Night of The Living Dead!!! To be alive a person needs to eat
food, drink water, go to the toilet, etc. They had cut one hand from
him. An injury like that is infected quickly. The man can even die for
a heart attack because of the contaminated blood or even the pain
caused by the cut.3) In the scene where both detectives are chasing after John Doe and
finally the murderer does not shoot Mills and escapes is just plain
ridiculous. In this case you would be expecting Mills screaming to his
buddy "I am OK, William, run and get the bastard!" like you probably
saw in other detectives movies but... No! Here they just missed the
criminal.4) In the high voltage towers field, when the box came, a good cop
would have not opened the package because there was a high probability
that the box contained a bomb. And by the way, the box contained a
bleeding human part. NO SMELL??? Come on!5) John Doe kills people who match deadly sins. Why does he kill Tracy?
Just to have a reason to make Mills mad? Tracy is the most innocent
person in the movie.More things out of place:1) Detective Somerset seems to be a respectable and correct person. Why
is he such a dick with detective Mills for example when Mills has a
kind gesture offering him coffee? OK. It is a detail and Mills is
actually shallow, but why Somerset behaves like that with the boy?2) Tracy Mills character does not have a clear place. Personally I
think she is beautiful but her acting is so so. Her relationship with
her husband, the young detective, is very cold and anybody could think
she is flirting with Somerset, not looking for help.3) After dinner in Mills apartment, there is a scene where Tracy woke
up and saw that both men have gone. That scene did not really add
anything.4) John Doe character is not menacing. He actually looks and speaks
like a gay.So if you do not have these points in count you probably will think
this film is great, otherwise you will think just like me that this is
another detectives movies of the pile. And this movie is not
disturbing, it is sadistic.

******
25 April 2008
3
I remember sitting down to watch se7en in a jam packed cinema on its
release day, I eagerly anticipated the movie and left, some two hours
later, in a rage that has not subsided to this day. I have just
completed my second viewing, curious as to whether I would hold the
same view numerous years later, the disappointment, nae utter
astonishment, at how flawed the film is, has not subsided.I struggle to comprehend how viewers can hail the performances as
stellar, sure Spacey turns in a classic spaceyesque performance,
however Freeman and Pitt are simply playing Freeman and Pitt, we have
seen it all before and since. The less said about Paltrow the better,
she is wooden, insipid and utterly void of any attributes to which one
could ever associate envy.This leads to the single biggest problem with the film, we are supposed
to accept that a mastermind serial killer intent on making a biblical
statement about sin and punishment, who has spent 12 months planning
and carrying out his masterwork has built the entire years efforts
around a finale which hinges, not only upon the investigating officer
being married, but more importantly the investigating officer having a
life that is worthy of envy.I cannot suspend disbelief sufficiently to accept this suggestion. Take
either strand and you cannot disprove the other, maybe Pitts life is
not the subject of envy but merely a vehicle for the envious act, fair
enough ... are we supposed to believe that Spacey had a back up plan if
the investigating officer had been a bachelor with no discerning
qualities at all.I am afraid that se7en flatters to deceive, compared to Finchers recent
works and in particular Zodiac, Se7en reeks of an ill conceived, poorly
executed and fundamentally shallow work. I have no doubt that the
average cinema goer thought the credits were stylish and "cool" and
found the cluttered soundtrack interesting, I am sure that budding film
students found the whole thing to be gritty and earthy, alas it fails
to add up to anything other than a waste of 2 hours of your time.Do yourself a favour Don't Believe The Hype!

******
20 March 1999
3

Seven has become a huge public success all over the world.
That I can understand. What I find more surprising is that it also got well
received by the critics. Most praised it as well made, exciting and original
thriller. Some even thought it was a masterpiece. But in my opinion, Seven
doesn't provide the genre of police thriller noting new than dim lighting
and copious amount of rain.Because Seven has much more in common with other films in this genre than
most people realized. A couple of clichés are that there's a team of two
cops who investigates the case consists of an old black man who is tired of his job and look forward to his retirement.
The other one is his opposite; a young white man who wants up.The murders that Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and Mills (Brad Pitt)
are investigating has been done with the seven deadly sins as source of
inspiration. The killer also leaves short literature quotes.
Mainly Dante, something that makes  Somerset (of course the intellectual of
the two cops) take Mills (who only seems to read Guns and Ammo) to the
library.Director David Fincher - whose only feature film before this was Alien 3,
but loads of music videos behind - reasoned "I don't feel at home in
libraries either... What music should I pick? It has to be something
cultural. At least we take something that everybody recognizes - Air by
Bach.Seven doesn't have any other intentions than being the two hour
thriller with some disgusting corpses, an odd police couple and a crazy
killer it actually is. Then it should be regarded as such and nothing
more.

******
14 July 2000
3

(Some SPOILERS!) Here you get to see the most moronic individual ever to
wear a detective's badge (well played by Brad Pitt, but it may come
naturally to him) team up with the standard wise, fatherly old cop
(Freeman)
to trade cop talk lifted from some TV series for about an hour and a half.
Interspersed with this insipid dialogue are (1) some gross scenes which
are
meant to be shocking; and (2) random scenes featuring Gwyneth Paltrow
which
have absolutely nothing to do with what passes for a plot up to that
point,
making it pretty clear that either (a) something's gonna happen to her in
the end; (b) the script was written by a moron; or (c) both of the above.
Nothing of any interest at all happens until Kevin Spacey finally shows
up,
but even he has trouble making anything out of this silly, predictable
wanna-be thriller. While I'm at listing things, here are the top two most
annoying things about this movie (apart from Brad Pitt's non-character):
(1)
almost every outdoor scene features pouring rain (how utterly noir!); (2)
almost every indoor scene takes place in an apartment which for some
inexplicable reason has no lights, or whose occupants use exclusively
5-watt
lightbulbs (so noir, it hurts).

******
11 November 2006
8
I am shocked that I watch, much less own, this movie, and as often as I
do. It's so dark, so uncomfortable to watch in many spots and so
profane (although I use a TV Guardian) that it's not a very likable
story and film.....but I find it fascinating. Let's continue on with
the bad, and the good, of this film - at least from my vantage point.THE BAD - As a Christian, I get tired of seeing the villains, the
sickest of serial killers, portrayed as Christians. It's unbelievable
Hollywood bias that would never be tolerated if minorities were the
constant victim of this kind of prejudice. In case, you don't get the
message they even pass by a brightly-lit neon cross in the guy's room!
That, and another cheap shot about a Southern Baptist being the killer,
and comments about the sicko "preaching a sermon" plus Kevin Spacey's
talks about people's sins....all are designed to portray a sick killer
as a religious nutcase. Also, for further Liberal slants, good-guy
Morgan Freeman is talking to Gywneth Paltrow at a neighborhood diner
and he relates having talked an old girlfriend into having an abortion
which Freeman says, "to this day, I am positive it was the right move."
Yet, he also says it was a mistake and he regrets it. Huh?? Other
negatives include too many f-words and usages of the Lord's name in
vain, mos of them said by Brad Pitt. There are also several really,
really downright gross scenes in here. If you don't expect them, you
can easily be shocked with these disturbing images: some very sick
pictures of tortured and mutilated bodies.THE GOOD - Despite all of the above, the story - as shocking and sordid
as it is - is a fascinating one. It gets you so involved that it's
almost impossible to put down, even with the unpleasant scenes. The
finale is memorable, too. I also appreciated the wonderful
cinematography in here. There are some strange colors in here but it
all looks fantastic on the special-edition DVD. Spacey was relative
unknown in his acting career at this time was riveting in that final 30
minutes when he had his speaking lines. All the actors in here are
excellent. This is a film that is impossible to forget.OVERALL - As a friend once told me, "This movie is very disturbing."
It's also extremely interesting, but beware it's not easy to watch.

******
30 May 2015
6
I think it's kind of old way-classy, but not as entertaining as other
detective stories. The detectives in the movie is just another two
characters and there are no actual clue-find games in this.I would say
the film is over-stretched and the director seemed to portray
everything in a dark and gloomy way. The repeated and irritating use of
rain and the depressing background music is not up-to my liking.
Anyways, if you are a man who likes classy slow movies, I think this is
for you. Otherwise, it's just boring at times, but quite good towards
the end. I don't really understand why that killer wins at the end. He
shouldn't have .

******
1 May 2015
3
WHAT I LIKED1. The horridity of the gruesome murders committed by John Doe was
well-shown.2. The climax.WHAT I DIDN'T LIKE1. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt gave decent performances but they have
done better roles.2. The story was too straight-forward and didn't feel like a thriller.VERDICTA poor thriller.3/10 - Poor

******
13 October 2014
10
"Se7en" is an exceptional thriller written by Andrew Kevin Walker, and
directed by the always more than impressive David Fincher. The lack of
creative freedom he had with "Alien3" (1992) turned him off the idea of
creating anymore, but the script they sent him managed to garner his
enthusiasm. Unfortunately they also sent him the script with the
original ending they wasn't going to use, leading to Fincher and Brad
Pitt fighting for the script. It's a fascinating story I bring up
because the film has rumours of many alternate endings, I implore you
to do a little research on what might have been.I suppose I should also say if you're a fan of "CSI" (2000-present),
then you must have seen "Se7en". The newly transferred David Mills
(Brad Pitt) and the retiring William Somerset (Freeman), are homicide
detectives who become deeply involved in the case of a sadistic serial
killer, whose meticulously planned murders correspond to the seven
deadly sins. From the uniquely disturbing title sequence, to the
overall shocking scenarios and finale. After watching this movie so
many times now, I'm stunned at how engaging and refreshed I am to watch
it all again and still find little things in the corners of each frame
and shot composition. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt's chemistry and
banter together is still as engaging, and how they haven't appeared in
a film together since is beyond me. It was also the time rising star
Kevin Spacey was on the scene, and even with the little screen time he
has his presence is so memorable it's crazy.Other than that, the brutal crime scenes still have the power to shock
and make people feel faint. To me David Fincher's work has this kind of
style that began with "Se7en", and over the years he's made it
distinctly his own. Nowhere is this more prominent than in the long
bleak shots of the city in both night and heavy downpour, and for some
reason part of me hearkens back to the urban street life painted in
"Taxi Driver" (1976). The performances are solid, the set pieces are
vivid and the script work and pacing is impeccable. If you haven't
already seen it, stop what you're doing and definitely make it you're
next viewing experience because it really is one of the 1990's absolute
best.Final Verdict: Often mimicked, yet never trumped. In a current wave of
never ending shoddy horror movies, "Se7en" is one of those rare
cinematic experiences that will keep you enthralled all the way towards
the credits. 10/10.

******
14 September 2014
2
Now I'm no hater of violence in films and I rather enjoy a good horror.The two leads are both actors I usually enjoy and they both give good
performances is this.The film making and camera work in this film are very, very good.It's well acted and I think the director and script writers got the
film they wanted.So what is the reason I have scored this a "2"?Well it's "torture porn", it may even be the first of the current
seemingly never ending proliferation of titles and I just can't see the
attraction on on-ending suffering and pain as the subject of a film.
The only reason for such films seems to me to show increasingly nasty
ways of maiming and killing people. If that kind of film is what you
enjoy then watch this as it is certainly better made and acted than
most of the genre, but it's not for me.

******
3 January 2012
9
David Fincher is a genius. I love this film, and some people might be
turned off by its violent nature, but it really is an amazing crime
thriller. A murder mystery tale at its finest.The cast is superb. Morgan Freeman portrays Detective William Somerset,
an experienced crime-solver who has been on the force for many years.
He plans on retiring soon, & grows tired of the city's horrors. Freeman
excels as a character burdened by the city's dark and twisted web of
crime. He just wants to get out. Brad Pitt is also very good as newly
transferred Detective David Mills. He's short-tempered and impatient,
almost the complete opposite of the elderly Somerset. People don't give
Pitt enough credit, in my opinion. He's a fine actor & often overlooked
(though he is getting the attention he deserves nowadays).The supporting cast is also excellent, with Gwyneth Paltrow playing
Mill's wife. She is having trouble adjusting to the dark cityscape in
which they now inhabit, and fears that something terrible might happen
to her in the oppressive place.The plot is fairly simple. A sadistic murderer has been going around
killing in a way that relates to the seven deadly sins: Gluttony,
Greed, Sloth, Lust, Pride, Envy, & Wrath. It's very nasty business.
Together, Somerset and Mills attempt to solve the murders. What follows
is a dark & complex tale as the detectives race to find the murderer.The cinematography in this film is excellent, it's dark and
mesmerizing. The city is literally crumbling, and the look is achieved
perfectly. The directors & writers really did good work on this, and
there is some real emotional weight to the film. The villain is
excellent as well (& I'm not going to spoil who he is played by, even
though most people have seen this movie by now).& then ending! What a shocker. Bottom Line; If you haven't seen this,
watch it! I'm surprised I'm so dang late on this.

******
29 December 2011
10
Director David Fincher's dark, stylish thriller,Se7en ranks as one of
the decade's most influential box-office successes and one of the best
films he has ever made in his career.This thriller, which also contains
horror and neo-noir elements, directed by David Fincher and written by
Andrew Kevin Walker,stars Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman together with
Gwyneth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey and Kevin Spacey.Set in a hellish vision of a New York-like city, where it is always
raining and the air crackles with impending death, the film concerns
Det. William Somerset, a homicide specialist just one week from a well-
deserved retirement. Every minute of his 32 years on the job is evident
in Somerset's worn, exhausted face, and his soul aches with the pain
that can only come from having seen and felt far too much. But
Somerset's retirement must wait for one last case, for which he is
teamed with young hotshot David Mills, the fiery detective set to
replace him at the end of the week. Mills has talked his reluctant
wife, Tracy, into moving to the big city so that he can tackle
important cases, but his first and Somerset's last are more than either
man has bargained for.Then,David Mills and William Somerset are deeply
involved in a case involving a series of sadistic murders. Each murder
corresponds to one of the seven deadly sins of Christianity: gluttony,
envy, lust, pride, sloth, greed and wrath. A diabolical serial killer
is staging grisly murders, choosing victims representing the seven
deadly sins. First, an obese man is forced to eat until his stomach
ruptures to represent gluttony, then a wealthy defense lawyer is made
to cut off a pound of his own flesh as penance for greed. Somerset
initially refuses to take the case, realizing that there will be five
more murders, ghastly sermons about lust, sloth, pride, wrath, and envy
presented by a madman to a sinful world. Somerset is correct, and
something within him cannot let the case go, forcing the weary
detective to team with Mills and see the case to its almost unspeakably
horrible conclusion. This is definitely a classic thriller that presents a brutal,
relentlessly grimy shocker with taut performances, slick gore effects,
and a haunting finale.David Fincher is at the top of his form with
Seven, one of the darkest, creepiest, and most brilliant serial killer
pictures in American film history.Although the story can be considered
formulaic,Fincher contrives a stylish, intentionally ugly look that
transcends the pulp narrative that would leave the viewer breathless
and horrified.Although it is a violent film,the director handles the
violence with sensitivity, announcing its obscenity in spoken analysis
and briefly glimpsed post mortem shots, but never showing the violent
acts themselves for which he should be credited for the superb
direction of this film.As for the performances,both Brad Pitt and
Morgan Freeman give excellent portrayal of the cops trying to solve the
murder and catching Kevin Spacey,whose portrayal of the diabolical is
one for the books and clearly has shown his acting talent and
capabilities.Definitely,Seven is the most disquieting,memorable and
powerful thriller in years.Truly a masterpiece.

******
24 December 2011
8
A movie that's dark yet strangely uplifting at the same time!Sharp acting coupled with intense, suspense-fuelled, well-paced scenes
and of course the deft direction makes Se7en a special flick to watch.Morgan Freeman has always excelled in detective roles, and his
portrayal here as William Somerset is no less. It was very interesting
to see a young Brad Pitt being paired with the veteran Freeman.
Although Pitt stumbles in heavy emotional moments, he still makes an
impressive impact. Beautiful Gwyneth Paltrow had a minor role here but
was still lovely. And yes, we also have a certain somebody who simply
chills as a very insane yet dangerously clever serial killer. If you
have not yet watched Se7en, I suggest you don't find out who's who in
the star cast to avoid any spoilers :) The climax, the masterpiece of the movie, ran a jolt through my body.
Yet the best thing about the movie is it does not leave you on a
psychotic, grim note. Morgan Freeman's last lines in the movie raises
our spirit.Verdict: One of those uncommon murder dramas that holds our breath from
the start to the end.

******
6 August 2011
8
Se7en, directed by the at the time relatively new director David
Fincher(who would go on to make fight club and the social network),
still stands as the greatest crime thriller since its release.The film tells the story of two detectives: Morgan Freeman as the calm
close-to-retirement cop, and Brad Pitt as his young cocky partner.
Their partnership may seem clichés but the chemistry between the two
actors is brilliant. Both actors give some of the best performances of
their career's. The supporting cast also does well too including:
Gwyneth Paltrow , R. Lee Ermey and Kevin Spacey.The film is told very differently to most cop drama, going for a more
depressing look at the world and the city, as the story follows the
cops trying to take down a killer who is murdering people in a style of
the seven sins. And the story works well throughout with loads of plot
twists and turns and a brilliant ending that still ranks among the best
film endings ever.The action keeps moving from fast paced chase scenes to the
slowly-paced crime scene investigations. David Fincher manages to tell
a moving and emotional story that also mixes little bits of dark humor
with some well directed action scenes.In total if you haven't seen Se7en yet then I'd recommend you go and
see it soon, as its one of the best crime thrillers ever made, and
features two great actors on top form.

******
25 May 2011
10
I first watched this film when I was around 12 years old. Needless to
say, and with the benefit of hindsight I thought it was quite dull and
very boring.10 years later and boy did my opinion change. For now not only do I
consider this film to be a masterpiece, but also the single most
extraordinary film I have seen since I first watched James Cameron's
Titanic in Jan 1998. Shot through what can only be described as a grainy grey lens, the film
highlights the ambiguity of it's characters by drowning the city and in
it's landscape in a hopelessness reflective in the killings. It is also
invariably raining in the film, which also adds to a sense of depravity
and despair amongst those who inhabit this place of woe. John Doe (the offender) is breathtakingly realised by ***** ******(I
won't give it away) and Pitt and Freeman both work brilliantly together
as their on screen alter ego's work tirelessly on the case at hand,
whilst all the while deliberating on such themes such as morality,
redemption and whether or not the guy they're after is just another
fruitcake or something much more...So to conclude: Se7en is astonishing throughout, with mesmerising
direction, perfect casting and a top notch ending worthy of the award
for the greatest film ending of all time...Se7en..it'd be a sin to miss
it.

******
22 April 2011
8
Another masterpiece, Se7en delivers complete realistic drama along with
psychological breakdowns. One of the main beauty of this film is, as
the movie tends to become much more serious and tragic, it pulls you
into the mood of the movie itself, rarely a great motion picture can do
that but Se7en was able to. For those who think Brad Pitt is just some
commercial pretty boy (I thought so myself) this movie indeed proved me
ever so completely wrong, this is one his finest movies, Brad Pitt is
defiantly one of the best actors lurking around Hollywood, along side
with veteran and lovable actor Morgan Freeman who also delivered
outstanding performance like he always does in his movies, all and all,
Se7en is a great marvelous film, the reason I say it can be watched
once in a lifetime is because the ending breaks you down
psychologically and it's a one time experience, watching it again and
again will give you pleasure of a great movie but not the ending feel.

******
15 January 2011
8
In a dark, gloomy city where the rain never stops and the signs of
urban decay are everywhere you look two detectives hunt down a serial
killer. The first detective is William Somerset, about to retire and
desperately looking forward to a quiet life in the country away from
all the urban misery. The second is young hotshot David Mills. He is to
be Somerset's replacement and he can't wait to get started. He actually
asked for this assignment. He relishes the opportunity to deal with the
worst of the worst in this hellish city. Of course he has no idea what
he's in for. Somerset knows. Or at least he thinks he does. Because not
even wise, old Somerset could possibly anticipate the events which are
about to unfold. These two detectives, one on the way in and one on the
way out, will be forced into a reluctant partnership as they work one
chilling case. The dead bodies begin to pile up and Somerset and Mills
get more than they ever could have bargained for. And quite possibly
more than they can bear.Somerset and Mills find themselves investigating a bizarre and
horrifying series of murders. By the time the second body turns up it
is clear that an obviously deranged, though also obviously intelligent,
killer is planning on murdering one victim to represent each of the
seven deadly sins. A morbidly obese man is forced to eat himself to
death. Gluttony. A rich attorney is forced to cut off a pound of his
own flesh. Greed. And so on. The killings are gruesome. The killer,
dubbed John Doe, is a man clearly capable of unimaginably monstrous
things. And somehow Somerset and Mills have to stop him before he
completes his set. Before he completes his deranged sermon to the
world. It all makes for one morbidly fascinating movie. And one with a
unique twist. Serial killer movies generally go one of two ways. Either
they show you the killer all the way through as you watch him do his
bloody work. Or they keep the killer invisible and focus solely on
those pursuing him. This movie leads you in one direction and then
whips you around and turns everything on its head. Rather brilliant
stuff.As we watch Somerset and Mills do the old cop/young cop routine we've
seen in so many other movies the contrasts between the two are
exceedingly obvious. These are two very different men, attacking the
John Doe case from two very different perspectives. Somerset is calm,
collected, a thinking man. And Morgan Freeman, with his quiet dignity,
portrays this perfectly. Mills is a man more about action than thought.
He's brash, emotional and a little immature. You get the sense early on
that this is a man who may not be ready for what he is going to have to
face. In playing this part Brad Pitt has his ups and downs. It's not a
bad performance by any means but there are moments where the
character's words and actions don't really ring true. Mills comes off
as being a little too insecure, and at times downright childish. The
contrast between Mills and Somerset is supposed to be obvious, and
supposed to be a major theme of the film. But at times the contrast is
just a little too stark to be believable. Even in the incredibly tense,
drama-packed finale Pitt's Mills comes across as much too whiny and
immature. His reactions to what he is confronted with just don't seem
to fit. Perhaps Pitt went just a touch too far in displaying all of the
insecurities and personality quirks which make up Detective Mills. But
it's nothing bad enough to really detract from the overall
movie-watching experience. Director David Fincher crafted something
rather special here. So much more than just another serial killer
movie. It's smart, it's riveting, and in the end it's quite
jaw-dropping. Maybe Pitt is just adequate. But Freeman is brilliant.
And one other performer is even better than that. But that final,
perfectly fitted piece to this puzzle you have to discover for
yourself.

******
24 August 2010
10
Se7en is sick! I am almost still surprised today that this film turned
out to be so good. I guess it blindsided me, like many films have, but
in a truly refreshing way. What I mean is this movie could have easily
fell into the realm of normality, just another run-of-the-mill movie,
but it didn't. It far surpasses the common film, and I am telling you
the truth when I say it is the greatest murder-mystery of all-time. It
is. Some might disagree because Se7en is so savage, and even a little
vile, well, it's vile. But it is so beautifully crafted; it is so
powerful. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman give phenomenal performances,
not to mention Kevin Spacey. And the story has such a good theme and
identity to it. You really feel what's going on. You really feel for
the characters. The subject matter is obviously very dark, but that
does not mean that it's not a gorgeous film. It's very touching, very
beautiful. Se7en offers a full range of emotions for the viewer. I
really love this movie. I give it a pure 10 out of 10. Se7en is a
masterpiece for the ages!

******
22 July 2010
10
When it comes to genres being overdone in Hollywood, the Murder-Mystery
is at the top of the list, and only a select few "heavy hitters" come
to mind. The film most widely accepted as the best murder mystery is
"The Silence Of The Lambs", which I would have to agree as well as
"Rear Window" and a few others, but where "Seven" stands out in this
genre compared to others is in the film's dark, innate ability to tell
a gruesome murder story set in a crime addled side of New York City.
The character interactions are incredibly played out as well as it's
cinematography, but this film is so dark, grisly and shocking that you
literally CAN'T look away from the screen for the two hours it plays
out, it grabs your attention like a drill instructor at boot camp and
doesn't let go until it's over. The cinematography was captured
beautifully and reminded me slightly of "The Dark Knight". Take note
though; this ISN'T your average murder mystery, at many parts it is
VERY disturbing and is most definitely not for kids, but what makes it
so good is the gritty unrelenting realism of crime in the big city.
"Seven" is so well done and has so many twists and turns in it, that I
constantly found myself at the mercy of the surprises. Even at the end
when you expect the story to take on a lighter path and maybe show a
little redemption, it gets even darker and more sinister. After Morgan
Freemans' monologue at the end you get the overwhelming sense of the
true realism this story has to offer over all others of it's kind. I
have to say that when it comes to murder mysteries "Seven" is as good
as they come.

******
16 July 2010
10
Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt team up in what has to be one of the
greatest murder films ever made. Freeman plays the old timer who has
witnessed it all and Pitt plays the shoot em' up cop who wants to be on
the front line of battle. They are both put on a case in which a
murderer kills people who have committed one of the seven deadly sins
(envy, sloth, lust, gluttony, wrath, pride, and greed). Freeman is
always a great actor, but Pitt brings about a human performance which
he cannot present in many of his other films. The entire story as it
unravels is amazing. The ending is a truly magnificent piece of acting
by Spacey, Freeman, and Pitt. You never see what is inside the box, but
you know that it is Pitt's wife's head even before Spacey admits it.
The attempts by Freeman to stop Pitt from shooting Spacey are valiant
but unsuccessful as Pitt does what most men would do and kills the man
who took his wife's life. A magnificent story combined with superb
acting and breathtaking cinematography make this film one of the
greatest ever made. To those who haven't seen it then go see it right
now and for those who have, watch it again. This has to be one of the
greatest thrillers ever made.

******
11 July 2010
10
What does Dante's "Divine Comedy", Christopher Marlowe's "The Tragical
History of Doctor Faustus", John Milton's "Paradise Lost", and the film
"Seven" have in common? They all reference the "Seven Deadly Sins". The
Seven Deadly Sins, also known as the Capital Vices or Cardinal Sins, is
a classification of vices propagated by the early Christian Church as
being the most objectionable and immoral. They fit within St
Augustine's rhetoric in terms of fallen humanity's tendency to sin. The
list consists of gluttony, greed, sloth, pride, lust, envy, and wrath.
"Seven" incorporates the literary references of the "Seven Deadly Sins"
into a compelling but shocking serial killer story.Brad Pit, in one of his best performances, plays a rookie detective,
David Mills, teamed with veteran and soon-to-be-retiring Detective
William Somerset, played by Morgan Freeman in one of the best roles of
his unequaled career. They are investigating a series of ghastly
homicides in an American urban center that seems a helluva lot like
Chicago. The veteran detective has seen almost everything an urban cop
can endure during an average career before the beginning of the story.
However, as events transpire, they reveal things even he, after decades
on the force, hasn't experienced. The rookie has no idea what's in
store for him, and by movie's end he will have sustained the most
horrific experience of a police detective coming-of-age ever shot on
film. We get the sense all rookie detectives go through a kind of
"baptism of fire" but nothing which would prepare a newbie to the force
something as simultaneously horrific and devastating as that presented
in "Seven".Unlike the usual street crime, these murders have a disturbing
combination of dreadful horror coupled with high literary intelligence.
The killer incorporates religious and literary symbolism into his acts
of unspeakable violence and murder. Each act and victim reference a
different "Deadly Sin". The killer may be mad but he is an highly
intelligent madman, who could probably quote Dante while loading a
Magnum 44. The well-known actor who plays the killer/religious fanatic
who reveals himself toward the end is perfect casting.Hollywood rarely produces films with such a combination of horror and
high intelligence. The closest comparable film is "Silence of the
Lambs" whose character Hannibal Lecter is strikingly similar to the
fiend in this film, although their motivations are entirely different.
Both of these characters, the killer of "Seven" and Hannibal Lecter,
are homicidal sociopaths of uncommon literary knowledge, which
communicate disturbing overtones of higher purpose. They are the type
who would probably view the act of crucifixion as an artistic
statement.This is an incredible film both in its dreadfulness and its cerebral
content, but definitely not for the feint of heart or the squeamish. As
for myself, this is probably the limit in terms of the disturbing
meter--worse than this would be out of bounds. Despite the gruesome
subject matter, this film has enough compelling elements, from the
literary references to the relationship between Pitt and Freeman, that
it does work as a masterpiece of the serial killer genre. And the
ending is one of the most compelling and original conclusions I have
ever witnessed in this type of film, but don't expect the main
characters to be celebrating with beers at the end. There are very
subtle hints during the film which point to how the movie's ending will
unfold, but like most movie-goers during my initial viewing, the ending
erupts like a dragon flying straight out of Hell.

******
23 April 2010
10
Se7en is definitely the BEST thriller of all time. David Fincher's best
(actually, tied with Fight Club). Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman make a
great team. And Kevin Spacey gives his second best performance (behind
American Beauty).Se7en is one of my favorite movies, and definitely deserves its place
on the top 250. Actually, I'm thinking more like top 15. But, whatever.
#26 will do.Se7en does not follow other thrillers. It is more dark, more
disturbing, and more exciting! The acting, the writing, the directing,
the producing, the EVERYTHING! Honestly, I would love to see a sequel.
Ei8ht?

******
7 April 2010
10
The movie "Seven" is very certainly the best thriller I have ever seen.
In addition of an excellent casting composed of two of the best actors
of Hollywood, Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman, this film has an excellent
script. Indeed, even if in the beginning it seems to be very classic
with a young and inexperienced detective and an other one who is old
and about to retire himself, it is rather different from the other
films of this genre since the acts of the murderer are based on the
seven deadly sins, which make his murders sadistic and spectacular.
Which impressed me the most is the atmosphere which is dark and
oppressive, the scenes are poorly enlightened, it rains almost the
movie, the murders are violent and bloody.

******
11 March 2010
9
I always get excited to see serial killers movies, even when they're
bad, it's a very entertaining and complex genre and always gets my
attention. But what makes "Se7en" so great?In it's first sequence we are introduced to William Somerset (Freeman),
an old and quiet Detective that is indignant because of how decadent
and violent his city has become. Now let me say that the only mistake
of the movie is that it tries to tell us how hopeless humanity has
become, but it is not true, it's so not true, that they never mention
the name of the city they are in, if it's NY, they would have to show
the charm and beautiful NY, if they were talking about California, they
would hake to show all that Californian glamour, the one that looks
more like the city of the movie is Vegas, but then again, they would
have to show the rich part of it, there's just no town as decadent as
that one.Now let's talk about it's good parts, and they are not few, every
single thing in this movie is very well explained, which is admirable
in some movies, and in others not, but it's great in this one because
it makes you wait, not only for the final part, but for every scene
you're watching, it grabs you in a way that deserves applause.The acting is not brilliant, but great, except for Spacey's outstanding
one, that gives the character an air of superiority and serenity that
make him sound even reasonable sometimes. If the movie didn't have an
ending it would already be great, but not happy with that, Andrew Kevin
Walker and David Fincher made one of the most shocking ending you'll
ever see, that image burns so deeply in my mind that when I remember,
it gives me goosebumps.Verdict: This dark, gory and complex picture will stay in your mind
forever... Now, stop what you're doing, and go see this one!

******
17 February 2010
10
David Fincher has always had a very different style from that of other
directors. Whether it is The Curious Case of Benjamin Button's drowned
out feel or Fight Club's frenetic hipster camera-work, it's Se7en that
definitely is his best film. Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt give
excellent performances while the script engrosses the audience. Any way
one looks at it, this film is great and there's no doubt about it.Se7en follows two detectives (Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt) in their
search to find "Jonathan Doe" (who later appears as Kevin Spacey), a
murderer who has been leaving crime scenes that follow the Seven Deadly
Sins. Freeman is great as an old, wise detective who is ready to retire
while Pitt only good as a cop turned detective who is looking for
action. Pitt's wife, played by Gwyneth Paltrow, makes for a good
secondary character who is constantly trying to relate to the two
detectives in their search. As the detectives push further to solve the
case, the crime scenes become grislier and tensions rise in the
corrupt, rainy unnamed city.There's many great things about Se7en, but one of the best is the
opening credits. One might ask how the opening credits can be so great,
but it must be seen to be believed. The opening credits consists of
many cut together shots of someone, presumably "Jonathan Doe", creating
a disturbing notebook of photographs and letters set to music that is
barely even music, but rather just creaking. Most of the shots are
shaky and overexposed and yet so beautiful. How is it possible that
something so beautiful? Only David Fincher could achieve a sequence so
effective. The credits set the tone wonderfully through the movie and,
if watched very closely, clues to the plot can be unlocked. If
anything, the credits are worth a look.To continue explaining Fincher's greatness, one must explain how he
creates the tone of the movie and what he does that makes the viewers
feel disturbed by the end of the movie. Although there is almost no
violence on-screen, the crime scenes are enough to make people feel
sick. Every shot in the movie is very dark and almost hard to
understand. There are no shades of bright colors throughout the whole
movie. These dark shots, which may remind many viewers of Christopher
Nolan's The Dark Knight, give the film a very gloomy feel that no other
film really does. Combine the shades of black and gray with the
gruesome crime scenes and one gets a very dark and creepy movie.There really is no other way to say it: Se7en is quite an amazing
movies. There's some brilliant direction from David Fincher (as per
usual) and great performances from the cast. The movie is thrilling and
at the same time brutal forcing audience members to wonder whether or
not they would like to finish the movie. Roger Ebert once said that a
true film buff sees films that nobody else has heard of. I must say
that I disagree. To become a true film buff means seeing movies like
this and then appreciating and understanding them. It is a movie like
Se7en that stands the test of time and is universally regarded as
wonderful by movie buffs and everyday movie watchers alike.

******
12 August 2008
6
This review is for people who consider this movie the BEST THRILLER
EVER.I watched this movie because a friend of mine told me that it's one of
the best thrillers ever. I have to admit that he was right. The theme
(the seven deadly sins) is excellent, I really like thrillers with
religious or historical influences. The actors play so well that I
couldn't take my eye off the screen, but sadly, there are a few things
that make this movie very predictable.First of all, it's the wife (Gwyneth Paltrow) of Detective David Mills
(Brad Pitt). When she reveals that she's pregnant to Detective William
Somerset (Morgan Freeman), everyone will know that something has got to
happen to her and their child.The second thing is that Pitt is so hot-headed, that you have to be
very naive to think that nothing will happen to him.I also can't understand what was Tracy's sin. If John Doe's sin was the
envy, the only sin that remained was the wrath, but I don't think that
this had anything to do with the detective's wife. Than I realized that
it must have been the detective's sin for killing the murderer, but
then why did he remained alive??? As Morgan Freeman said, the murderer
needs seven dead bodies with seven deadly sins to complete his
masterpiece. I really don't think that this was complete.Anyway, I must say that this movie is very original, I can't compare it
to any other thriller. It would be one of my favorites, but the ending
is the most important thing in every movie, but this one was not so
enthralling. I was waiting for a huge clashing but it didn't come.I give 6 stars for this movie, because after all it was worth watching,
a few scenes and ideas will remain in my head for a few days, but this
could have been the best thriller of the 90's if it had a more shocking
ending.

******
27 July 2008
6
Intentionally gloomy and unintentionally drab, Seven can be a difficult
movie to watch for many reasons. The murders are shown and described in
their most gory form. However, for a crime thriller, the movie moves at
a surprisingly slow pace and the plot (beyond the brilliant idea of
using seven sins) is almost too basic. Understandably, this movie was
also to serve as a tirade against society and a critique of
crime-ridden cities. But what the film loses in thrill value in
achieving this is hardly justifiable, especially when the whole premise
of this movie screams a feverishly fast and an intricate battle of
wits. The film owes a lot of the accolades it receives to the
'brilliant' twist in the end. However, this film came at a time when
the idea of a twist was a fairly novel concept. So, if you have sat
though most of Chris Nolan's and Shyamalan's work before seeing this,
you could out-think twist in this movie , and perhaps even expect it.
That though is not the film's fault. It is watchable for its intriguing
premise, good performances and subtle commentary. However, don't be
surprised if it fails to fulfil your appetite for a real crime
thriller.

******
13 May 2007
7
In this analysis the number system based on 12 using 7 is analyzed as
symbolic under the Christian Orthodox faith. This case deals with
visual-audio signals used by a serial killer professing to be a judge
of 7 deadly sins. By his judgment actor Kevin Spacey plays the role of
the executioner.What does 7 really mean from the Bible. The 7 Churches of Ephesus in
Persia were well known during the time of Jesus Christ in the Middle
East. Does 7 really have a symbolic notion underlying a meaning that is
a numeration of sins recognized by the Chatholic faith that are meant
have no other judgment but death by the nature of that sin, and
carnation.Judgement of life questions the essence of spiritual energy that for
Roman Catholics is the Holy Spirit. As for philosophy of science we are
determined to have free will or determination to act. This is the
duality of Jesus Christ where people are utilized due to the essence of
the Holy Spirit from the father for political science and
administration of justice. Thus, the motives of actor Kevin Spacey in
this film as analyzed by actor Morgan Freeman as a detective are based
on a catalog of environmental stress over time that manifests itself as
becoming a good judge of people. The climax ending is the truth to the
plot of Seven, that actor Kevin Spacey is his own Jesus Christ with the
above understanding of an Orthodox viewpoint and mundane references to
numerous accounts of how the number seven is used in the Holy Bible.I question the plot of this film based on the use of numbers as with
other television shows such as the Electric Company from Public
Broacasting System (PBS), and Himitsu Setai Goranger. As based on
natural science theory and philosophy of science as the Freemansons
utilized history and great minds to create new technology they
manipulated numbers. Other than for analysis key historic dates were
1717 and 1919. I think an argument can be made as much as why the
number seven is a focal point but of little value in the Holy Bible as
numbers are used by Freemasons to establish brotherhood, or occult.Personally I would like to see the actor Morgan Freeman and actor James
Earl Jones appear in a film plot as wise men traveling to see the
Emperial Chinese family of the Han Dynasty for information to save
their people. As found by the valuable silk road into Africa, where the
stars are used with ancient astrology. They in turn exchange stolen
information about an Egyptian djed.

******
9 February 2005
10
I watched this movie recently after probably 5-6 years. It still gives
me the creeps. The way John Doe rationalizes his behavior makes me
believe that there are such people out there and that is freaky. The
movie is of course absolutely brilliant, true David Fincher style. Each
of the murders is so grotesque , its almost a celebration in his
camera. The most mortifying scene for me is the manner John Doe kills
his 'LUST' victim. Most people miss out on the subtle humor in the
movie when they see it the first time ; the conversations between Mills
and Somerset crack me up. All in all, I would highly recommend this
movie. For a movie that's 10 years old, it still beats other creepy
movies like Ringu for its sheer reality.

******
4 February 2005
9
I first saw Se7en on video and I loved it now I own the DVD and cannot
get enough of it. All the performances are superb, Morgan Freeman,
Kevin Spacey (probably his best role other then The Usual Suspects) and
Brad Pitt who Director David Fincher seems to bring the best out in. I
done a paper on this film in my Media Studies and the amount of ways
the camera plays with the audience and the complex narrative are also
stars of this film. The opening sequence really draws in the audience.
This may be David Fincher's best film as it is more complex then Fight
Club and is truly a modern masterpiece. Deserves its place in the 250
This is one thriller that deserves repeat viewing and entertains every
time.

******
29 January 2005
9
all i can say on this one is that its a absolute must see film and i
would advise anyone who adores atmosphere and grim in there films
should definitely check this out, quite easily one of the best scripts
and endings i have ever witnessed in a movie...one more thing, does
anyone believe that john does the second coming of Christ?, after
analysing this movie several times I've came to this conclusion,(his
mysterious identity and outrage against sin etc) any way maybe I've
divulged to much into the plot but it does seem to me that the book
john doe is writing is like a second bible of some sort, even if my
theory is unfounded it certainly does give the film a darker more
fantasy laden feel...overall an classic that should be enjoyed by any
serious or casual movie goer.

******
20 November 2004
10
Perfect. The only word to describe the brilliance before my eyes.
Brilliant directing, acting, writing, soundtrack... everything worked
together to make a superb thriller about a serial killer following the
Se7en deadly sins. Mills has requested transfer to homicide in New
York, Somerset is retiring. Bodies start piling up, and the
investigation starts. Somerset reluctantly teaches Mills what he can.
The art direction in this film is breathtaking. Every scene will leave
you wanting for more. Every time I watch the credits roll I want to
start the movie over. While the ending was changed slightly from the
original script, I think it is for the better. This one goes down in
the books my friends, a must see, especially if you are a David Fincher
fan.Suspense 10/10

******
4 July 2003
7

This was a good movie with an extremely hot star. It had a good plot line
and it was so real it made you feel like you were actually there in the
movie with the detectives, trying to crack the case. However, there were
many holes in the script like, was Somerset obsessive compulsive or just
meticulous, or why did Mills ask to be transferred to that precinct? All
in
all, I'd say it is a movie worth seeing but you'll definitely be asking
questions after it's over.

******
24 April 2003
7

spoilers:It is obvious that Brad Pitt has performed the sins of wrath not only once
in the movie, therefore he would be punished at the end. Also there are
implications near the ending that Brad Pitt did not go home after John Doe
got caught and he mentioned he should call home or do something like that
but he did not. When I saw the three guys driving along I was wondering who
would die. At first I thought John Doe might have set up some trap to kill
the two detectives. But when I saw the box I knew at once that Brad Pitt's
wife's head was in it and Brad Pitt would kill John Doe.To me this movie is not as good as the Usual Suspects. The characters are
not interesting. The plot is so so. Seven sins, so what?! Nothing is left in
my mind after viewing it.

******
13 March 2003
7

Remember when Spacey was good. Remember when Fincher was a dark genius.
Remember when Paltrow was sweet. Remember when Pitt had
depth.Caught my Xmas present DVD the other night. Liked it all those years ago,
and we're all aware of what it influenced thereafter. A piece of absolute
genius and a knock-you-down film.

******
23 February 2003
8

Gee, you'd think with all the big-name actors and actresses (Brad Pitt,
Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, Gwenyth Paltrow) in this movie, that they
could have afforded something brighter than an 15 watt light bulb. This
movie is dark. I'm not talking about the murder and the mystery. I'm talking
about not being to see a darn thing during the movie. I mean, is there
something bad about having a little color or light in a
movie?And everyone is so miserably unhappy all the time, you've got to wonder why
they stay on those jobs. I mean, go to New Zealand and raise sheep! Go save
whales for a year with Greenpeace! Get yourself a nightshift job at a
Denny's! I mean, ANYTHING but working in that dark depressing
city!

******
27 May 2001
7

I did not see this movie until recently.  I had seen Fight Club on DVD,
and
decided that Se7en may be worth my time, especially, because friends had
seen it while it was in theatres, and they were disturbed and agitated by
it.  While there is nothing really terrible about the movie, it did not
excite or move me.  I got neither the superficial thrill or the profound
revelation that I like to get from movies.  The problem for me was my
ability to predict how the movie would end, particularly, since I am
usually
very poor at this.

******
29 March 2012
4
Seven is a pretty lame movie, IMHO.When I pay to watch an R rated suspense/thriller movie, I want my
blood, guts, and action. This movie provided me with almost none of the
above, with the exception of like three (come on, only three?) bloody
dead people. OK, OK, the drug dealer on the bed was the best part. But
the movie is SO SLOW and BORING. Sure, Morgan Freeman does a great job
acting, but all the biblical psychobabble in the world doesn't make up
for NOT SHOWING THE KILLER KILLING PEOPLE. I don't want to go off on a
rant here, but having 2 cops walk around in the rain merely going into
apartments for nearly two hours bores me to death. The ending was cool,
but hardly makes up for this sad attempt. I don't get this watered-down
mainstream pretty-boy nonsense. Oh, if you couldn't tell, I didn't like
this movie.

******
11 June 2011
10
IMDb Top 250: 27Seven, David Fincher's first great film, is about two detectives in an
unnamed city who hunt down a serial killer who uses the Seven Deadly
Sins as his modus operandi. It's an original and clever take on the
murder mystery. When those opening credits start to roll, with an
awesome remix of Nine Inch Nail's 'Closer', the viewer begins to both
dread what will come next, but also be unable to wait to see how it
unfurls.A very important part of Seven is its setting and atmosphere. The city,
unnamed intentionally, is a savage, crime-riddled town that no one
wants to live in. It sets the perfect landscape for such a bizarre
killer. The direction is wonderful: constant rain, dark; this is a sad,
dreary place, and no good can possibly come of it. It's one of Seven's
greatest strengths.Another great strength is the three major players. Brad Pitt and Morgan
Freeman play the rookie and the veteran, and both are very convincing.
Pitt, a five year veteran elsewhere, comes to the city intentionally
with his girlfriend. We feel his unpreparedness, especially early on.
He doesn't know what to expect from this dreary place; his reaction to
the vomit and him waiting for Somerset outside the Gluttony murder, in
the rain soaking with two coffees proves that. While some criticize
Pitt's acting at the end, I think he aces it.Freeman doesn't have as hard a job, he is the perfect smart and wise
character. The last player is the killer, who I will keep a secret.
From the killer's entrance to finish, you will be on edge as long as
the character is on the screen. The lack of emotion is unsettling.Visually, the film stands out: colours are seeped out of the picture,
leaving darkness and rain: a great example is in the alley, with
cameras facing up the guns barrel into the rain.The last key to Seven's success is the plot. Full of action, suspense,
and a few jumps, you will be engrossed by this story till its intense,
shocking finale. Each of the killings are well-thought and shown in a
gory, visceral matter, but not explicitly so. Sloth and Lust are
absolutely atrocious in a good way, but I think Pride could have been
fleshed out a little more. That could be the only suggestion I have
about the film.The less you know going into Seven, the better. One of the 90's best.
9.6/10

******
20 June 2010
10
This movie is a true masterpiece! I have seen this movie many times and
somehow it get stuck in your head for a long time. Both probably
because the movie is so well-done and scary at the same time. The movie
is thrilling from the very first minute all the way to the end and is
totally worth seeing. The movie contains a couple of disgusting scenes
and is not for sensitive people. ;) Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow and
Morgan Freeman show real acting skills and after watching this movie
they to continue to be favorite actors of mine. You can look forward to
a couple of scary and thrilling hours ahead and an best of all: an
unexpectedly ending!

******
12 January 2009
5
I had to give it 5 for the excellent performances given by everyone but
Brad Pitt. At first, I gave Mr. Pitt benefit of the doubt that he was
aware of some flaws that I was not privy to in the character he was
playing. Then I realized he just wasn't giving it his all. The fact
that so many other reviewers gave him kudos tells me that
intellectually Americans have fallen way behind in what they look for
in a film. We truly are just about 'action, action, action' as Marlene
Dietrich once said. Maybe that is why foreign film is so much ahead of
us. Too many Americans have been raised on 'TV Movie of the Week' and
'Murder She Wrote' as their mother's milk. They simply don't look for
nuances in character and personality. Underplaying is much more
difficult that overplaying. Mr. Pitt does a ham actor's job of it. This
isn't the first time I've witnessed his gross inability to reel in his
own personality. He keeps playing Brad Pitt, bad boy of film as if flip
dialog and pouting and shouting can make him the next Brando. It's a
shame, but the ending fails enormously and I think was predictable.
Hitchcock has nothing to worry about even from the grave. Mr. Pitt
would make a much better scandal rag subject or part-time male model.

******
8 July 2005
10
You have probably never seen a particularly ugly murder until you see
"Se7en". Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play Det. David Mills and Det.
William Somerset, respectively, who are investigating a series of
murders involving the Seven Deadly Sins. No person can possibly
describe how awful and vicious it is, what the murderer has done to
these people. Some scenes are likely to make you squirm. To avoid
spoiling the movie, I won't write about them, but if you watch the
movie, you'll probably recognize them. What the murderer does to the
gluttony victim is especially ugly; you might not want to eat anything
after watching that scene. "Se7en" may be one of the most disturbing
movies that you ever see, but it's good nonetheless.

******
17 April 2005
8
I think "Seven" is an excellent crime drama with great acting, script,
cinematography and score. Somehow though, it hasn't held up (for me)
over time and repeated viewings as well as it should. I just viewed it
again today, and although enjoying it I no longer get the 'kick' I once
did. Once the ending is known, it definitely loses some of its power.
See the ending more than a few times, and that loss starts to extend
over the last 20 minutes of the film as well (starting from the time
the killer turns himself in).Something about the style of the film hasn't held up that wonderfully
either, or maybe it's just been over-used at this point and feels
tired. It could even be that I've gotten so jaded about "stylish" films
that they're all starting to look a little bit pretentious.I noticed there's a bit of recent backlash to all the "10 star" ratings
and cult status of this film. Not unexpected, and maybe the reasons
I've given above have something to do with it as well. As moviegoers,
we've seen this kind of film a bit too often now, and it's lost some of
its power to frighten or shock.Anyway, I'd still rate this movie highly, but I'm not so sure it's a
masterpiece. A very good movie, yes. Worth watching, without a doubt
(particularly if you enjoy this genre). Somehow I can envision John
Malkovich playing the "John Doe" role... he might have done very well,
and certainly would have been interesting in the role.

******
15 March 2003
5

I notice this film is highly regarded by a lot of viewers. I, on the other
hand, was not impressed with the story, pace, acting among these
heavyweights or most anything else. I liked the little surprise ending - but
I knew damn well that he was going to pull that trigger. Who wouldn't? It's
just another serial killer flick, and not a very interesting one.
Sorry.

******
16 June 2006
3
To be honest, I don't understand what's so great about the movie. I've
never seen the whole movie. I don't know why. I always give up watching
it during the movie 'cause it bores me. I don't find it exciting at
all. Just two policemen chasing a guy. I've seen similar movies that
are way thrilling than this. And the reason why the guy is killing are
stupid. It's just not inspiring enough for me to make me sit down and
watch the whole thing. I always end up zapping on another channel or
pick up a book to read. Morgan Freeman is a wonderful actor. He's the
reason why I'm trying to see the movie every time it goes on TV. But
not even him can make me interested to make it through to the end. And
Brad Pitt. I can't stand that guy. He's not that good as he think he
is.

******
9 April 2006
5
I had been waiting a long time to see this movie and I finally had the
chance. #42 all time? 8.4 on IMDb? Man it must be GREAT.Instead, what I watched was a slow, almost boring movie. Where were the
great twists? It was amazingly predictable. Guys print on a wall? Bet
he's missing a finger or hand. Guy starved to death? Bet he's still
alive, why else would they so lovingly pan over the body? Friday the
13th did that, too. Nice serene music and BAM! I wasn't counting on
Seven being a "slasher film" but it sure seems to have followed many of
the "tricks" of cheaper slasher films.There was some character development, I guess, and i'm sure that slowed
things down a bit, but that hardly made this a great film.And why was it so damned dark half the time! IT ISN'T NECESSARY! Man I
hate that in movies.Anyways, i'm sure some will love it. I found it totally run of the
mill, with a lot of wasted star power.

******
26 August 2002
3

Se7en confirms my first rule of movies: If the movie is bad, chose stupid
typography in the title or the opening credits to confuse the
audience.This movie is replete with plot holes and the preaching about a break down
of moralities is heavy handed and distracting.

******
8 April 2002
3

It had a very promising start. Opening credits were interesting and
the photography was wonderful. All was going well until we were
introduced to the main characters (Freeman and Pitt).Basically these characters are overly simplistic and rather cliched.Freeman the extremely well learned and rational cop and Pitt the
gung-ho non-intellectual (anti) are about as believable as
munchkins.Unfortunately this movie seems to have been made to gratuitous
ly use hollywoods most popular actors (at the time) rather than a
good movie.Sorry, watch Silence of the Lambs if you want a good movie of this
genre.mho

******
20 February 2005
6
I found this movie rather tedious....it was gritty acting for Pitt,
very good performance (as usual) by Freeman, and even Paltrow was good
in this one. And the gory details they keep finding out at the murder
scenes start to get preposterous. But, alas, it was far too L-O-N-G and
could have been shortened somewhat. I think the movie went on far too
long - they could have wrapped it up after the first 2 hours, but
instead go on and on... And that scene where Pitt chases the suspect
seems to never end...rain and all. Rather depressing...and not
believable. I find it difficult to give this movie too much of a
rating...my '6' is rather generous.

******
16 November 2000
3

So, here we have another one of those "suspense" movies...Where is the
suspense? Where is the thrill? A film of this genre should have an
atmosphere, make you excited, cause you to try to guess what the next move
is going to be, and most of all - provide a surprising end. None of those
exist in this creation of Hollywood movie industry. If the only way to
keep
the viewer focused and somewhat interested is by presenting more and more
gruesome ways of murder - something is very wrong here. Any R-rated movie
from the shelves marked "Horrow" in your local video-store can provide
such
an entertaiment. Yet there are much more expectations from the cast
involved
in this project.
Conclusion: bigger is not always better. This movie is supposed to be
"Silence of the lambs" times 7, but it is not even close to the brilliant
original.

******
3 June 1999
3

What can I say.  The movie was soooo dark,  so depressing that I just
wanted to turn it off and throw it in the trash.  Thank goodness I only
rented this.  I continuously wanted for something good,  something
exciting
and It was just words and a picture of a dead man with police wandering
around.  The movie was sooo bad that it made my other rental film Urban
Legend look like an exciting horror classic---and that was only an OK
film.
Seven is a horrible experience,   little gore,   little action,  mild
absurdities,   basically a very gloomy unentertaining tone.  Even Gweneth
Paltrow was stupid and frankly had--no interesting lines and they didn't
even show the way she looked at the end--so upsetting.  Just like the Baby
with Rosemary's baby,   the director denied a crucial element,  it is just
that unlike Rosemary's Baby,  I didn't care an inch about the way Seven
looked at that point. Thrillers like Fatal Attraction,  The Hand That
Rocks
the Cradle,  and The Tie That Binds are movies that at least have an
entertaining and lighter deranged glow.  Seven is just dark,  boring,  and
so uninvolving.  The actors good but the story stunk.


******
15 April 2004
2

I'm sorry for those of you who think that a watered-down pseudo-sadistic
murder spree makes for compelling or an intelligent film.  It
doesn't.Let's set aside for the moment the miserable lighting and cinematography in
this film -- half the movie is so monochromatic that it's difficult to tell
what you're looking at, and the 'artistic' angles compound the
problem.Let's set aside the absolutely rotten characterizations -- Freeman tries
hard with his portrayal of the absolutely-cookie-cutter jaded soon-to-retire
cop, but there's nothing there, and Brad Pitt's scenery-chewing over-the-top
"look at me, I'm sooooo mad!" rookie-detective turn is, frankly, laughably
silly.  Gwyneth Paltrow has absolutely nothing to do, and Spacey's character
is...well, he's not a character.  He's a bit of hackneyed dialogue, without
motive, without charisma, without even a semi-consistent tone (we're
supposed to believe that this infinitely careful killer is also so
ramblingly incompetent that he leaves evidence all over his apartment?  That
he's so confident he knocks off cops' wives, but so easily frazzled he loses
his cool under light questioning in the police car?Let's instead focus on plot holes so wide you could toss a horse through
them.What kind of police department is this?  There is not ONE ATTEMPT to answer
some of the obvious questions that would be asked in any murder
investigation (is there surveillance video of the lawyer's offices (there
would be)?  Where did the killer get his antibiotics (those things are
tracked, numbskulls)?  Why aren't the cops even TRYING to predict the
killer's victim pattern, after they've been given ridiculously explicit
hints?  Most importantly, the entire ending is completely
implausible...under no circumstances would any department, anywhere, EVER,
send two detectives off with the high-profile confessed murderer like that. 
When Spacey proposes his little 'deal,' the cops would have said "tough. 
Rot in jail, sicko."I suppose the success of "Se7en" proves that if you shower an audience with
enough slickly-produced gore (not even that imaginatively rendered), they'll
buy it, particularly if you layer on some random pseudo-literary quotation
to give it a sheen of "art."  A sad comment on the state of the horror
genre.

******
3 September 2011
1
"If you kill him, he will win".Such gravity, I wonder what will happen next? To make the statement that everything is pointless and bleak in the
guise of mainstream expense-oriented entertainment is about as
senseless as the psychopathic philosophies of a secondary character in
the less pretentious and more humanistic film Se7en directly rips off
(i.e. In the Line of Fire: "You are still alive because I have allowed
you to live"/"You're only alive because I didn't kill you").The intellectual design of a film is dependent on how sophisticated its
trappings are. When Se7en rears its pulp horror stylings as if they
where grave truths one has to admit that the film is only as impressive
as the sensitivity and weakness of its expected audience. There is no
rising up to meet anything like an honest or remotely profound truth.
There is only the 'punctuation of dreariness' that In the Line of Fire
expresses. Se7en is a film that utilizes mainstream commercial sensibilities in
order to subvert audience expectation for no reason other than shock
value. The film is solidly constructed and maintains a consistent mood
that can trick a viewer into thinking that they are not watching a
comic book fantasy with a decidedly average intellectual thought
process. The music swells and accents on dialog and mannerisms are
straight out of a commercial 'blockbuster' so the only thing subversive
about the film is its intentional slumming in human perversity and its
ending which puts the audience literally inside the younger detectives
head (the flash of a familiar face breaking the forth wall of the films
otherwise meticulously contrived direction). There isn't even much character development driving the story: our
hero, the older world weary detective, begins the film with a bleak
attitude and is briefly energized by a ridiculous mystery and a younger
angrier partner then returns to his previous depressive (or is it
streetwise?) state of mind at the end, albeit with an even more
fatalistic attitude; why go to the house in the country when you are
fated to die a city cop? Maybe he is supposed to be a masochist, like
the intended audience. We are led through darkness and bleak chic
riding the wave of impossible psychotic fantasy (a conveniently
"independently wealthy" sociopath who has a godlike control over an
inordinate amount of variables) straight into a grandiose shock that
only seems more than the gimmick it is if we have become emotionally
invested and need to see it as some kind of philosophical statement.Upon first experiencing this movie I was naive enough not to realize
that the central female character only existed so as to fool people
into thinking that 'cruelty for fun' is not what the film is really all
about; Oh my goodness, the saintly sympathetic face of humanism and
hope is cut and served to us as a reminder of just how sick and
dysfunctional our species really is. The 'funny' thing is that by
servicing grim shock over any actual moral conceit or questioning,
Seven is just a cheap horror-noir tailor made for sick and
dysfunctional sheep.Angel Heart was the artistic accomplishment this A-list crap strives to
be. And In the Line of Fire managed to skim the surface of bleakness
without diving in. Se7en (a ham-fisted comic book title if there ever
was one) will seem great to people who want to simultaneously enjoy
commercial excess as entertainment and still feel cool and
non-conformist. Admittedly, if the film wasn't so adeptly produced it would not have
p*** me off to the point that I am still trying to work out its
cultural legacy in my own head years later. But this doesn't make it
anything other than a movie that p***ed off some random guy. The money
spent making Se7en would have been better used if stolen from the
corporation and given anonymously to various people on the streets.
That would have been truly subversive and "puzzled over and studied".In the end, one need only take a walk or get outside at all to become
superior to everything this film has to say.

******
18 November 2015
3
This is really worst movie i ever watched because you will just get
sick from it and you wont be surprised or even happy because you
watched it . Trust me i don't even know how these people wrote so much
good reviews. Only explanation is that they like bad movies, but hey
you don't argue about someones taste but really... This is ... I don't
know. Basically you follow the story and you expect something to happen
but. Little action, little detective knowledge and that's it . At the
end of the movie i was sure that can't be the end and so, when i saw
credits i was so sad. Ending is so simple and so bad, so lets be
honest, what is movie with bad end ? It should leave you with some
impressions, not to go in bad with empty head. When i watched movie
"Inception" it was pure masterpiece and the end was so head blowing
that i could not stop thinking about it for two more days. Now that's
movie. Cheers.

******
6 June 2015
5
I could give this film credit for acting, for cinematography, character
development, etc., however, the failure seems to be in the story. It is obvious from the outset what the "seven" refers to in the film,
however it remains to be seen if the characters or the audience will be
able to figure out what this will ultimately end up leading to as it
goes along. I suppose it depends on how perceptive the characters or
the audience are. There is a message behind the whole thing, and I will
give credit that the message gets across and that is why I will give
the movie half points for that execution, but as for surprises I will
give it no credit at all.The failure of this film is in the ultimate outcome as the detectives
are not smart enough themselves to figure out what the viewer of the
film can see coming.

******
20 January 2015
9
I think the audience for "Se7en" is rather self-selecting. If you don't
mind an ultra-gory cop film with a lot of expletives, then you will be
delighted. If you are looking for something family-friendly or 'nice',
then you wouldn't even consider watching this in the first place. While
I don't think I'd put myself in either group, I am not really a bit fan
of gore and although I can respect the film, it really isn't a film for
me. So why did I watch it? Well, with well over 17000 reviews and an
overall IMDb score that places it near the top of all films, then it's
natural I'd get to it sooner or later.As for the film, I won't say much--there are already TONS of reviews
for this one. Suffice to say that the plot is exceptional--complex,
shocking and worth seeing. The acting also is quite nice all around.
The bottom line is that this IS a quality production and if it's the
sort of thing you'd normally watch, watch away and enjoy.

******
18 May 2010
10
From David Fincher, Se7en is a compelling and brilliant postmodern film
noir. It is grim and disturbing but it is also very intelligent and
daring. What I did love about Se7en especially is that it is incredibly
stylish, beautiful dark cinematography and dazzling landscapes really
do add to the atmosphere. Very little of the murders are shown but we
are appalled and shocked by what we hear of them, the action is tense
and the climax is shattering. There is also an intelligent screenplay,
a clever plot telling of a vicious serial killer who murders his
victims in a gruesome way to atone for the sins(gluttony, greed, sloth,
lust, pride, envy and wrath)he deems them to have committed and
excellent direction. The acting is also superb, Morgan Freeman gives
another brilliant performance as the disillusioned detective and Brad
Pitt is great as Mills in a more meatier role than he has ever done.
Gwyneth Paltrow makes a small yet significant appearance as Mill's
uneasy wife, while Kevin Spacey superbly delivers equally superb
dialogue as John Doe despite the fact he isn't in the film much.
Overall, a brilliant film, with adept performances, direction, style
and ambition. 10/10 Bethany Cox

******
30 January 2005
10
After watching it again on DVD for about the 20th time I was amazed by
how much this film still grabs me - genuinely think that its my
favourite movie ever....pure absolute class.I know thats a bold statement but I really think it is - I have never
watched a film so many times and been able to completely lose myself it
it like this film - normally the only films I can watch over and over
again are comedies.The lead acts are so good,and the action extremely clever not a film
for the faint hearted though... me missus finds parts of the film
disgusting (which I think makes me like the film even more) and don't
go expecting a warm, fuzzy feeling at the end...be prepared!

******
29 January 2005
8
This is to Gardenwriter.The reason Kevin Spacey's name is not in the opening credits is because
he asked to be uncredited on purpose. This was to keep his character a
secret, ambiguous. If people knew Spacey was in it then they would have
known that he was John Doe from the very beginning. So that is why.
Spacey wouldn't take the role if they had put his name in the opening
credits. I think more movies should do this. It is a very smart way of
not giving away everything in the movie. Gary Oldman did the same thing
in Hannibal, so people would look at the character and not Gary Oldman
playing the character.

******
2 January 2001
6

A very entertaining and highly engrossing thriller about two detectives
(Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt) involved with a string of murders linked to
the seven deadly sins. The film is certainly not a masterpiece, but the
storytelling is very compelling. Despite a slow beginning, the film picks up
the pace and eventually moves so fast that if you fail to pay attention for
only a few moments, you may miss a major part of the story. Brad Pitt gives
a very good performance and the best that I have ever seen from him. Morgan
Freeman, as usual, is great as the lonely, veteran cop who has only a few
days left before retirement. A film that is not required viewing, but
recommended by all means.***
    

******
4 November 2000
7

Not bad for a psychological thriller but the story doesn't show it inner
strength, which is cruelty.Although the movie is about murder by the seven deadly sins, it doesn't
attract enough attention from the audience, just like a common drama movie
not a psycho movie.The best performance from Brad and Morgan from one of their earliest
movie.

******
9 March 2008
6
Enough is enough! This movie has taken the whole 'serial killer' genre
too far! Though a very well made film, I cannot bring myself to label
this entertainment, for it is just too sick. Perhaps the whole thing is
getting too close to home, but unless these films start taking the
responsibility of discouraging, or at the very least educating, then
they really will have to stop.Scripter Kevin Walker and director David Fincher don't bother to send
any messages, except perhaps that it is a very bent and warped world
that we live in. In closing, Detective Somerset (Morgan Freeman)
suggests that it is indeed not a nice world, but that it is worth
fighting for. However we are never told why.Freeman and Brad Pitt make the most of their roles as two very
different detectives pursuing a very disturbed individual, played in
truly haunting fashion by Kevin Spacey. I for one though am getting
sick of religious nuts. It seems almost every person that is portrayed
as having a faith is also naturally mentally unstable. "Chariots of
Fire" is the only film I can think of that shows Christianity in a good
light, yet the number of religious wackos in the movies is astounding.Fincher has given his pic a customary dark, wet look (not unlike his
"Alien3"), and he has thrown in some very strange, 'rock video' style
credits. The cinematography is oft times riveting, and the make-up is
particularly stomach churning, with some graphically gruesome murder
scenes being recreated. At times it is hard to stay with this long,
under-edited film.Let's see an end to this spate of 'serial killer' films that take no
social obligation, or we may find life imitating art.Friday, February 23, 1996 - Astor Theatre

******
6 November 2000
5

Overrated and formulaic, right down the tips of its credits and the cheesy
"7" that is in the title...do I hear hisses from the peanut gallery? I
realize a lot of people adore this movie, but I don't. Se7en has the
characteristic (for me, anyway) that a lot of critics are saying plagues
"Pay It Forward." It's too manufactured. There's something very artificial
and contrived about the movie, and I just can't buy into it. As for the
"surprise" ending...sorry, but I saw it coming from a mile away.


******
27 January 2000
6

  You're probably thinking that I am a very harsh guy, comparing "Se7en" to
"The silence of the lambs".  Well let me tell you why I am comparing them. 
The theme of the movie is pretty much the same as the one in "The silence of
the lambs".
I also once saw on a box that it was written and I quote
"better than The silence of the lambs".  Unfortunately, that isn't true. 
Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow can't give great performances like Jodie
Foster and Anthony Hopkins gave in "The silence of the lambs".  However,
Morgan Freeman is a terrific actor and so is Kevin Spacey and so the two of
them together can compensate for Pitt's and Paltrow's performance.  The movie starts off in a house.  Someone has been murdered.  The sin this
person had committed was gluttony and it seemed he was killed in this way:
someone held a gun against his head and forced him to eat spaghetti until he
bursted open.  The detective in charge of this case is an experienced
detective named William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and is shortly teamed up
with a young detective named David Mills (Brad Pitt).  We them have the
opening credits and the camera is filming inside the murderer's house.  It
is filming his hands which are working on a table and you realize how
careful the psycho is.  He cut off the end of his fingers and put bandages
around them simply to be sure the police do not find any
finger-prints.  The next murder is committed is a person whose sin was greed, then sloth,
envy, wrath, pride, and finally lust.  The seven sinners all having been
murdered, Mills assumes that the murderer will not strike again and that he
has only to catch him.  But that's not what John Doe (Kevin Spacey), the
murderer, has in mind.  No, instead of hiding out after his seven murders,
he turns himself over to the police and has a last surprise for the two
detectives, a surprise that will horrify them and allow the viewer which one
is able to know when to hold back and which one should be holding
back.  David Fincher does a better job directing this than directing Alien³. 
However, I thought there was too much unnecessary gore in the movie.  Brad
Pitt does a good job with what he is given and Morgan Freeman is as
excellent a in any other movie.  But Kevin Spacey walks away with the movie
and gives probably the best performance as the crazy John Doe whose way to
describe a murder is as scary as seeing him commit one.  It wasn't any
surprise he won best villain of the year at the MTV movie awards.  I think
he didn't get a nomination for best-supporting actor because he already had
one in "The usual suspects" which he won.  The only disappointing part of
the movie is truly Gwyneth Paltrow's performance who seems to be shy in
front of the camera.  It's a good movie that got a little too much credit
but is still worth watching.  


******
20 May 2011
2
Once an actor has been in a movie with an evil counterculture end and
as the bad guy I don't trust movies that actor is in anymore. Kevin
Spacey is one such actor. I was half watching Se7en for a long time
while I was doing some work on the computer, thinking I wish I knew the
remote control was. Near the end I realized that Kevin Spacey was John
Doe but he was in jail so I let it go on a little longer. When I heard
Morgan Freeman say that John Doe had the upper hand I had to get up
fast and change the channel. I still don't know how it ends.There really should be a rating system that a movie has a bad ending so
that guys like me don;t get suckered into watching crap like this.

******
18 October 2010
4
Oh my god! Current rating 8.7 and # 28 on top 250 list...!! I think
many of IMDb users have gone out of their mind to vote 10, 9 & 8 to
such a ridiculous crap.Yes, it is a fact that i do believe in the voting system of IMDb and it
is absolutely true that i consult the reviews of this site before
watching most of the films. In 95% of cases my judgment gone true. On
the basis of rating and reviews i got disappointed only with two films.
One is Se7en and the other is Once upon a time in the West (1968).Some of the IMDb users are also claiming Se7en to be the best work of
David Fincher till date. But i don't think so... Fight Club (1999) is
the best work of Fincher till date. It doesn't matter to me what others
think about this review of mine but this is not a classic to be rated
so high."The god inspired and ordered a person to eliminate those 7 people who
are indulging themselves to the 7 deadly sins of the universe." I do
admire the insane attitude of the killer but the plot and the entire
story was full of flaws. Like in most of the psychological thrillers
here also the lead actors failed to read and analyze the mind of the
killer. In every crime committed by the killer... he stayed two steps
ahead of the detectives. And yes the climax itself was one of the worst
i have ever seen.Watch it only if you are a strong fan of crime thrillers otherwise not!
Self - interpretation by the viewer after watching the film is the most
important thing... 4/10....I can't vote it more than that..

******
28 June 2006
2
This film is a total triumph for style over substance. Characters that
you don't care about get caught up in a fairly ludicrous set of
circumstances and the ending is telegraphed from early on. The icing on
the cake is when a potentially more interesting detective movie/police
procedural is suddenly ruined by the confession of one of the minor
characters in the film that he is the killer. His drawn out speeches
about his reasons for committing the crimes come across as unnatural
and forced and the whole movie descends into farce with the courier
company (nice product placement) delivery of the severed head of a
character so underwritten that her input to the scene remains the same
as when her head was still attached. Why so many people like this
superficially dark but ultimately very mainstream thriller is beyond
me. Sure, Morgan Freeman delivers another solid performance and Spacey
is good even if his performance (much like Jack Nicholson's turn as the
Joker in Batman) belongs in a different movie to the drab, underplayed,
naturalistic tone that all the other actors seem to be opting for. Pitt
is guilty of phoning in his performance to a large extent and Paltrow
wrestles manfully with a sketchy part but can't make any serious
impression. A puff piece.

******
23 February 2006
4
This movie is one of the most over-hyped I've ever seen (#43 in IMDb!).
Seeing the trailer let one know (and guess) at least 60% of the movie,
the end is more or less clear about 20 minutes before it happens and
absolutely clear about 5 minutes.This brings me to another point: the plot fills this
more-than-2-hour-movie as Brad Pitt would fill the clothes of the
Gluttony-victim. There are too many sequences that seem just stretched
and which do nothing for plot or character development.All in all: could've been a decent 90-minute movie, and I've seen many
worse but it's definitely not worth more than 5 points. I gave it 4 (-1
for being over-hyped).

******
19 August 2002
10

  SE7VEN is a modern thriller masterpiece, in tradition of other modern
classics like Silence of the Lambs. The acting is magnificent, and Kevin
Spacey played the sick, twisted villian perfectly. I don't think anyone got
academy awards for this but they should have. Brad Pitt's emotional scene at
the end is shockingly good, and Morgan Freeman once again does a great job
in his thriller genre.  So have yourself a good time watching Se7ven. It will thrill you, scare
you, haunt you, and even make you a little sick at the thought of what
happened in the film. The ending is - quote me on this- "So shocking that
you won't believe your eyes!" 4/5 stars-JOHN ULMER

******
24 August 2006
6
Watching SEVEN, you almost expect a beer commercial to interrupt at any
moment because it's like watching a harder-edged, slightly grittier,
mean streets version of LAW AND ORDER with a more experienced detective
(MORGAN FREEMAN) conducting a sort of balancing act with his footloose,
craving for action sidekick (BRAD PITT) wanting to get away from his
desk work.It's gritty stuff all the way through, with neon lights flashing amid
grimy apartments, chases through crooked alleys and across grimy
rooftops and down fire escapes that break the tension of a story whose
central theme is the hunt for a serial killer intent on showing off his
skill to a detective he professes to admire. As the killer, KEVIN
SPACEY adopts a zombie-like pose, a flat monotone and recites his
dialog with a straight face--but he's never quite believable enough in
the role.BRAD PITT spends much of the time protesting loudly against the
authority figure who tries to calm him down when things get out of
hand. But his final emotional scene is a challenging one and he does
manage to bring the right anger, confusion and bitter resentment as he
confronts the man who has played his final trick on him. He's
unrestrained in this final moment and it's the kind of emotion the
audience can understand at this point.MORGAN FREEMAN, as the more restrained, experienced older partner on
the brink of retirement, is excellent but his final decision to open a
box (without revealing plot details here) is a questionable procedure.Summing up: Some tense, well-staged moments but the overall effect is
less than impressive as a study of a serial killer on the loose.Overpraised by film noir addicts.

******
25 January 2000
4

I know this is supposed to be a "dark" thriller but for God's sake
couldn't
the budget have stretched to at least one light on the set?  Through half
the film you have to squint to see what's going on, and anyone who
couldn't
guess what was in the parcel at the end of the film must be a total moron.
4/10

******
20 May 2005
3
I haven't seen this film in years. But I still remember two scenes very
clearly. Why? Because they were such frustratingly bad scenes. The
worst part is that the movie actually revolves around these scenes (am
I wrong? Maybe I don't remember it well).The following is a SPOILER. Do NOT READ this until after you have seen
the movie.1. There is a scene in which a woman (GP?) has a conversation with a
man (was it MF?). It is clearly designed to make you feel an attachment
to GP. It was very badly done. So badly, that I immediately knew that
she was getting snuffed before the end of the movie. She was obviously
just like one of those "Red Shirts" that occasionally show up in Star
Trek: Destined to bite the dust. As one other reviewer put it, GP was a
mere "plot point". It was painful to watch, frankly. Here, "Painful to
watch" means "an embarrassment to creative people everywhere." There are just too many movies that contain a wealth of talent in every
way except for the writing. Se7en epitomizes this Hollywood problem.2. The final Scene! "Shocking"? Hardly. Don't read this if you haven't
seen the movie. As I recall, we were waiting for a package. I KNEW what
that box contained. It was obvious! That was really frustrating because
I also knew that entire film was working up to this point in the
plot... only to fizzle because it was just so unbelievably clumsy. The
suspense was drawn out way too long. If it had been sprung on us a
little quicker, I might have been taken by surprise. I was so annoyed by the experience that Se7en has stuck in my head as
much or more than any other movie I've seen.

******
11 June 2002
2
If the viewer enjoys reading bizarre, sensationalistic stories in The
National Enquirer and watching surgical procedures on cable TV, this
film might be of interest. It is not recommended for after dinner
viewing unless one happens to suffer from bulimia. The fact that it has
received such high viewer ratings speaks volumes about the state of
society in the present day. The only redeeming feature is the
performance delivered by Morgan Freeman as the veteran detective.
Otherwise, it is a stomach churning gore fest in the deviant style so
pervasive today. The events portrayed herein seem intended only to
appeal to the very worst aspects of indecent human behavior. With films
such as this setting the example, it is no surprise that our social
structure is deteriorating so rapidly.

******
19 June 2011
8
wow, this and pulp fiction have to be the most overrated films of the
90s. great directing, great atmosphere(liked the fact that it always
rained) but every review i have read praises the mood and the
lighting(wow, a dark mood for a dark film. just original. and the
story. i immediately knew that the photographer pitt met on the stairs
was the killer. and while pitt and freeman were driving spacey to
across country i knew spacey done something to pitts wife. it was so
obvious. maybe that was intentional by the director and the writer but
this has to be the only detective thriller that didn't have a twist
ending. fight club is so much better than seven in every way

******
20 May 2006
7
Considering the movies that are either low or completely off the top
250 list this movie ranks low (WAY) lower then a lot of the art which
resides in the film world. A #43 rating seems a bit high considering there are SVU episodes better
then this film. I found that really it was like a lot of other films done in it's
murder styling (The Watcher, The bone collector and Saw) Sure the movie
does has a lot of good points about how our lives as modern humans is
hedonistic and wrong. What's even more wrong is putting this film
higher then other great works such as Grave of the fireflies Dancer in the dark And Princess Mononoke I cannot believe that such a plain mediocre film has made it so high.
Just shows what popularity does and how it's deciding these poles not
actual greatness in a movie. 7/10 is all it's worthy for and I should knock it down a notch but it's
an even figure.

******
21 January 2013
3
That's how I record that movie.. it would be considered a B movie if it
was made with a low budget and not so famous actors.. the plot is pure
non-sense.. it is one of those super serial killer kind of movie..
which I simply hate with all my soul.. really stupid and annoying
plot.. it is really a hard task to watch to the end.. and what a stupid
end. I'd like to say something good about this movie.. it is the first
time I saw Gwineowlh Patrowl (I spelled her name correctly?? hehehe).
When you have a good budget you can find those mega beautiful actress
out of nothing :)What else to say? Unfortunately the super serial killer kind of movie
got a really success in the 90's.. B movies such as The silence of the
lambs got a really wagon full of retards wanting to praise it.. I know
one day it will end.. but unfortunately it isn't over yet..

******
17 July 2007
3
I don't know what the hype was about, I think its one of those films
that just because it has those faces we love in it, then we take for
granted as good. I did not feel that sense of mystery I was promised,
no new chords were struck. Those last scenes which were supposed to be
the climax, was the worst part. I mean did Brad Pitt only have the
choice to shoot or not shoot Spacey? Could he not have just about hurt
him real bad?....which in my opinion is a far more exciting form of
vengeance and makes a hell of a lot more sense than killing, because
death is the end to pain. And Spacey's character demanded that of him,
so he triumphed. Morgan Freeman had warned him that he he was not fit
for the job. Anyway finally I would like to know why we don't see
Paltrow's head in the box in the end, its not like that would be any
more gory than what we had already witnessed.

******
9 December 2006
3
I am really surprised by all the positive comments by IMDb users,
especially the ones saying how great the acting is.I found the acting from the three main characters (Freeman, Pitt and
Paltrow) to be each shallow at best; particularly annoying were
Paltrow's wispy-ness, Pitt's lame attempt at expressing emotions, and
Freeman's overdone weariness. All three actors have had excellent
performances in other films, so I blame the written dialog.The Plot is vaguely interesting, and the editing acceptable, but
ultimately I found the character's stereotypes and interactions
disappointing.

******
8 September 2002
3

***Spoilers included****Great.  Just what the world needs.  Another dark, disturbing, gratuitously
violent movie that has delusions of achieving the dizzy heights of a
modern
classic.  Sure- I recognise that the movie has good points.  The
performances are pretty good, the camera techniques and photography
employed
effectively enhance the subject matter and hey- there is always Gwyneth
losing her head - something that should have happened a long time ago (if
you think I'm probably not a Gwyneth fan..well- you'd be right).  But my
objection lies in the completely depraved scenes that accompany each of
the
seven (sorry about that - I meant, of course, Se7en) sins.  This is
torturous violence at it's most debased.  And if the movie is about how
desensitised we all are to the problems of the world we live in, then why
did this movie make me leave the cinema feeling violated?Don't get me wrong.  I'm wouldn't consider myself prudish or oversensitive
when it comes to violence on the screen- after all, I am a classic Gen X,
who grew up watching violence and sex of some form or another manifest
before me.   I can usually watch serial killer movies without too many
problems (apart from the entirely involuntary hands over the eyes during
the
critical moments).  But this was different. This was disturbing.  Maybe I
just can't stand the suffering and torture of the human condition that was
evident in this movie.  Or maybe it was because the good guys definitely
don't win out in the end and I've been so Hollywoodised (yeah- I know it's
not a word, but it was the best I could come up with) that I can't handle
this fact.Seriously, don't bother with this movie.  

******
23 February 2000
3

Se7en was an interesting concept, i loved the idea. Too bad David Fincher
occasionally leaves out a little thing called logic. Too many plot holes,
unanswered questions and preposterous character choices all around. This
could have been a masterpiece, instead, it's just another movie you've
seen
before and it wasn't that good the first time.

******
22 December 1999
3

I can point to se7en as an indicator as to what is wrong with American
Film
today. It is ultimately the work of cynics who, despite possessing a
remarkble skill for handling the technological wonders that make up film
craft, have absolutely no respect or affection for the audience.Se7en
celebrates the destructive power of evil in its purest form.  Although the
film contains fantastic cinematography and expert performances from the
cast
(especially Freeman), I sincerely wonder at the motivations behind Fincher
and the rest of the creators of this ugly, pretentious and abusive
picture.
It absolutely wallows in filth, grime and blood. To director Fincher's
credit, he has probably come the closest to capturing Bosch on film. If
they (the filmmakers) are out to expose the sinful nature of the human
being
well guess what, most of us already know that- Fincher has us at hello if
that is his focus. Much has been written about the twist at the ending.
I'm
sorry, this ending shows no respect for the audience and their
sensiblities
what so ever. It makes the two hours one has spent watching this film
utterly wasted. Because the most articulate character in the film is the
hidden killer (played by an absolutly incredible actor), I wonder if the
film makers see themselves as spiritual blood brothers with the
pyschopath.
The film is dark, unrelenting and completely devoid of any joy, hope or
resurrection. Pessimistic films can be extremely effective note The Seven
Samurai, The Sergio Leone films, Dr. Strangelove and others, but those
films
had senses of  humour and balance to their pessimism. Again, I ask the
motivations of the makers of this film: If you want me to feel dirty,
raped
and corrupted by the "real" world, I already am, I don't need to raped in
the "reel" world by cynical opportunists wanting to make a buck off of the
audience's already jaded spirits. 

******
27 October 2014
1
This film, though well made and well acted, was popular because of its
subject matter - extreme violence, torture and sadism.I can only say that the genere itself reflects the sick appetite for
entertainment based on crime pain and death that has become a hallmark
of western society.I can only wonder what less corrupted people think when they watch this
and similar films, along with the inordinate amount of gruesome crime
TV series.Perhaps, folks, it is time to reflect on this obsession and demand
better. As if there is not enough violence in the real world...

******
2 December 2013
1
The film is for children, needing to be spoon feed every ten seconds
the next step, victim. Like most crime films the writer/director feeds
the view just enough information to avoid giving away the story even
when such restrictions are illogical and unrealistic. The film is utterly disconnected from the realities of a major criminal
investigation. We're expected to believe that NYPD would assign only
two homicide detectives to what is clearly a serial killer. In the real world dozens of detectives would be assigned. The FBI
bought in. Crime scenes would have their lights turned on (instead of
the melodramatic and never ending use of torches), and instead of
following like hansel and gretal the crumbs the killers has left them
they would be following real leads.Canvesing, obtaining the CCTV's surrounding each victims house for
several blocks. Establishing a when the killer was there and working
out where he came and went to. Like another review mentioned we are
asked to believe that this killer makes absolutely not a single mistake
and that no one has ever seen him. However the films great crime is the belief, even after his home base
and money is found, that killer continued to kill and work with nay a
concern for being caught. Its utterly ridiculous and anyone who can watch this film without
realising its utter crap is utterly deluded. Even most of the I hate it Reviews on IMDb complaints are banal and
vexatious. Subjective things like tone, narrative and photography are
well personal choice you either like em or you don't but they in
themselves don't make the film good or bad. A good intelligent film treats the viewer with respect. Lastly the constant ripping on Silence of the Lambs (there are several
comments in the film that refer to SOTL) when this film is far more of
a marketing puff piece is an utter joke. I've deleted this film, and refused to even watch the much vaunted
"twist". That in itself so utterly illogical and stupid part of the
plot that its not even worth discussing.

******
5 January 2012
1
I don't really get this movie, it is met with such high acclaim,yet it
doesn't really have anything to show for it.From the start i didn't like it,the tone is incessantly bland,the
visuals are dull,they never even attempt to give any excitement to the
audience,as if the story alone was enough to keep us entertained. The
entire movie is a good concept with a disappointing realization, the
series of murders influenced by the seven deadly sins and even though
one or two cases do tend to shock and entertain us,altogether it's not
as thrilling as it should be. As for the characters,Brad Pitt is
horrible in this movie,it's like he forgot how to act,he never acts out
the appropriate emotion and the last scene where he finds his wife's
head in the box looked more like annoyance and disgust than shock,fear
and trauma; of course,nihilism might have been the direction they were
going to,another question pops in mind: "Should a death of a loved one
be a nihilistic reaction?". Kevin Spacey's character would have been
amazing if it weren't for his lack of motivation, his role was supposed
to be that of an insane mastermind,but wouldn't he then have a better
motive than an "I wanna be famous" attitude? In conclusion it's a bad movie,I see why people do tend do enjoy it for
it has some noteworthy scenes,but the fact is that it mostly relies on
build-up and shock,while the outcome is predictable,the atmosphere is
boring and the ending is too rushed.

******
29 March 2011
1
Have seen most all of the top 200 films listed on this site, I was
awaiting Se7en with a sense of excitement. I have no problem with crap
films - I own Crocodile 1 & 2 - But this just stinks of a rush job.For a start, why all the flash backs?! It slows the film down, to point
where I started to lose interest. If you're a fan of horror, you will
know whats happening - you don't need it spelt out every 10 minutes.
Yes - every 10 minutes we get basically a bit of filler, and it just
goes to show how thin the plot is.Another problem is Gwyneth Paltrow. Shes simply doesn't have the
shoulders to carry this film. She was good in Shakespeare IN LOVE- her
character was strong enough to base a sequel on - which unfortunately
never ultimately happened.And the lack of Freeman - he is reduced to an old man in a bed. That's
about as scary as cute kitten. You can see his point of view, but in
this is just comes across as bitter and a loser. Perhaps that's the
point, I don't know. Anyhow, Freeman was wasted. Shame.As for the twist, which, let's face it, is what we all want, was a
major let down. Even I got it before the end, which is unheard of!! It
feels as though the writers just stumbled into an ending - then didn't
have any plan, or any idea how to tie up the lose ends. I felt very let
down by the ending. It was weak and, frankly, unbelievable.On the plus side, the gore was not frightening. Perhaps the least
brutal mainstream serial killer film I've seen. But it was gore for the
sake of it. It wasn't needed, It was there to flesh out the running
time - but I'm not complaining!! In the veiled guise of a horror flick,
'Se7en' signals a new low. This is the cinematic equivalent of a child
labour sweatshop. Only you, as a discerning viewer can put a stop to
this shameless exploitation. Don't see 'Se7en' or other future films
with such similarly dubious intention. Why, you may ask? Because your
Dollar counts more than my mere words.In short, 'Se7en' sucks.Still unconvinced? Go see it, then.I won't be adding this to my collection.

******
29 January 2000
1

I can't understand what the critics saw in this film.  It's basically a
standard serial killer film full of cliches (old cop on verge of retiring
and young eager cop full of new ideas -yawn) but with two main differences -
the ending, and the sheer grossness of the murders.I've watched many horror and crime movies and I'm not squeamish but I found
the murders so unpleasant that I became detached from the movie and started
wondering.  .  The disgusting crimes combined with the general darkness and
mumbled dialogue made the whole film depressing and hard to care about.As for the ending, it only served to remove any suspense that had been
building up.  I didn't find the last few scenes shocking or surprising - I
realised what was coming and just wanted it to be over.Well made - maybe.  Well acted - perhaps (if you could make out all the
dialogue).  Innovative - yes, but not in a good way.  Imaginative - yes, but
not the kind of imagination you want to dwell on.  Watch only if you
actively enjoy being made to feel miserable.

******
2 April 2010
8
Se7en starts as rookie homicide detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) is
paired up with veteran detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) who
is set to retire in seven days time. The first case they are called to
is that of an obese man who has been forced to eat himself to death,
then a lawyer is found dead with the word Greed written in his own
blood by his body & upon checking the obese man's apartment the word
'Gluttony' is found written in fat & grease. The connection is made &
Somerset believes that a serial killer is at large who has some higher
motive & is using the seven deadly sins as a moral reasoning behind his
brutal crimes. Somerset is sure that he will strike again & he does, as
more mutilated & tortured bodies turn up it emerges that the killer is
playing a macabre game that will see him & his crimes remembered
forever...Directed by David Fincher this is quite simply a marvellously gripping
serial killer thriller that is as good as The Silence of the Lambs
(1991) & is considered a classic, as I write this comment Se7en is
placed at number 26 in the IMDb's all time top 250 films as voted for
by the ordinary person who uses the site (not stuck up critics) & who
am I to disagree? The whole production blends together seamlessly to
create a truly gripping & absorbing thriller, from the gloomy
production design to the terrific acting to the wonderful script & it's
character's. It's easy to be drawn into the world of the two leads as
they search for a serial killer, Freeman's fantastic performance as
Somerset in particular is great to watch, he is thoughtful, precise,
likable & smart in an ordinary bloke sort of way while Pitt as Mills is
his opposite who is naive & immature. Together they make a perfect
contrast of character's & they feel like real people. The script has
some great twists & turns but the big one at the end is a real show
stopper, it's a great twist ending that just works on so many levels &
is brilliantly executed. Se7en has it's seedy, sleazy & gloomy moments
but it tries to paint a world where sin is accepted all to freely,
there are some great speeches here especially by Somerset that indicate
all is not lost but it's easy to see that the real world is full of the
sin that is punished here & that we also just accept to readily so it
even has a strong relevant social message that does have meaning but at
the same time but the script still manages to make a terrific dark
thriller out of the ideas here. Lasting for two hours & not being the
most action packed film ever patience is definitely needed but I do
think the twists & plot do hold ones attention very well, for me the
two hours flew by & it didn't feel that long which is always a great
sign & one that the film didn't bore me & maintained my interest
throughout right until it's killer twist ending.The film looks great with dark & gloomy production design that suits
the downbeat seedy world created in the script. There are some gruesome
murder scenes & shots of dead bodies although little in the way of
actual on screen violence (the killer is never seen killing or hurting
anyone on screen for instance), the special effects as expected are top
notch (just look at the obese man's corpse on the autopsy table).
People make mention of the fact it's always raining in the city scenes
but apparently this had nothing to do with thematics or style or the
makers vision but because during the first two days of Brad Pitt
filming it was raining so to avoid any continuity issues the makers
decides to make it rain during all Pitt's outdoor scenes. Apparently
the brilliant Canadian director David Cronenberg was offered the chance
to direct but he turned it down, imagine how good this might have been
if he had accepted? Denzel Washington was offered the part of David
Mills that went to Brad Pitt while R.E.M.'s Michael Stipe was
considered for the role of the killer.With a supposed budget of about $30,000,000 this was New Line Cinemas
first big budget 'A' film & it made a load at the box-office, filmed in
Los Angeles in California the name of the city where Se7en takes place
is never actually mentioned on screen. The acting is superb all round,
Freeman is excellent as is Kevin Spacey & R. Lee Ermey while it was
nice to see Shaft himself Richard Roundtree.Se7en is a terrific serial killer thriller that has a great script, a
great twist, super acting, good effects, striking production design & a
fair bit of depth. There aren't many films I would call classics but
maybe Se7en would be one of them.

******
11 October 2006
2
This is the kind of stuff somebody thinks up on the toilet. There is
nothing remarkable about this film besides how disgusting it is. I can
not help but think a more subtle approach would have helped this movie
avoid the banality of the special effects, which seem more suited for a
science fiction due to their over exaggeration.The story is overly contrived. The director handles this movie in such
a way that the narrative jerks from one scene to the next, yanking us
to a punchling serving as a climax. Something so obvious and derivative
is not worth watching.Overall I felt the movie was very disengaging and fundamentally
simplistic in narrative. The characters are cliché and I found the
general atmosphere of the film undesirable.

******
7 November 2005
6
OK this movie was alright during the film it was fun and exciting
however during the end of the movie it as so predictable. And we all
know "a movie isn't good until we see the conclusion. The acting was
really good, Kevin spacey Morgan freeman.yet the story line was like a bad saw. It is a good movie to rent not
buy. However some may disagree I recommend Saw, Saw 2 and memento. Saw
and saw 2 is great kind of like se7en and A better fear dot com with in
exciting twist. Oldboy is more of an action flick, yet still has the
characteristics of these thrillers. So go and watch these movies
instead of se7en

******
15 July 2002
5

Absolutely one of the best shockers to come along in a very long time. Two
detectives(Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman)work in tandem trying to track down
a ruthless serial killer, whose modus operandi is inspired by the seven
deadly sins. Some very graphic after-the-fact violence. Pitt and Morgan
could not appear more realistic. Very strong language is atmospheric in this
crime drama. Don't be ashamed if you flinch, hide your eyes or redecorate
the chair you're sitting in. This movie is powerfully good. Also in the cast
are: Kevin Spacey, Gwyneth Paltrow, R. Lee Ermey and Daniel
Zacapa.

******
8 July 2000
4

I have never understood why so many people consider this
movie a great thriller. It has a few spooky & exciting
moments, but overall it is terribly predictable and
disappointing. Brad Pitt is insufferable, and the old, wise
cop vs. young, arrogant rookie thing has been done to
death in better movies than this one. There is little here that
is original or creative--it's fine for a rental, but I'm sorry I
wasted my money when it was in the theaters.

******
24 July 2012
2
In the first few minutes of this movie, you get a good idea of what
it's going to be like. We are taken to a crime scene where a
grotesquely obese "shut-in" has been murdered. His bloated, decaying
corpse has been there for awhile, with roaches and other vermin
crawling all over the place. If this grosses you out, don't expect
things to get much better, for this flick is nothing if not a first
class gross-out. While there are a few elements of some interest, such
as the sequence where annoying and mouthy Detective Mills (Pitt)
attempts to run down the serial killer, or veteran actor Morgan
Freeman's downbeat interpretation of the jaded detective, the movie is
otherwise sadly lacking in redeeming value. The concluding scene is
just plain sick, the sort of thing we've come to expect from Kevin
Spacey, whom I cannot stand.

******
28 September 2001
2
**CONTAINS SPOILERS**Perhaps it's the timing. Three weeks ago I might have reacted differently to
this movie. But right now I just have little tolerance for the way it takes
genuine horror and evil and creates a stylish, but ultimately empty,
Hollywood package out of it. This film is about a sadistic killer who is choosing his victims and methods
of death based on the seven deadly sins (hence the title of the movie). On
his trail are two detectives, a young hotshot named David Mills (Brad Pitt)
and a senior Homicide Lieutenant, William Somerset, (Morgan Freeman) who has
become cynical almost to the point of burnout. The murders are carried out
with extreme cruelty, although the violence is not actually shown being
committed, it is depicted quite graphically by what the two men discover at
each crime scene, as well as in the various photos, coroner's reports, etc.,
that they examine. To be blunt, this is NOT for the squeamish, in fact, I'm
surprised this film didn't get an NC-17 rating. Anyway, the bodies pile up, and despite their best efforts (including a very
close encounter by Mills), the killer, known only as `John Doe', remains at
large. In fact, we don't even see him at all until halfway through the film,
and we don't see him close up until near the end. Which is, basically, where
this otherwise well crafted film falls apart. At this point, five victims have already been discovered. In a strange plot
twist, Mr. Doe turns himself in, them makes a bizarre offer. In return for a
full confession, he requests the two detectives accompany him, alone and
unarmed, so he can show them the final two victims. Obviously he has
something really shocking planned as his grand finale, and, given his
extremely high level of intelligence shown to date, only a fool would accept
such a proposal at face value. Yet accepted it is, and all three men end up
alone in the desert, the scene set for the final horror.   (Warning: BIG
spoiler ahead)On the drive out, Doe has been taunting Mills relentlessly, setting up the
big showdown in which Somerset is handed a package containing the severed
head of Mills' wife, played by Gwyneth Paltrow. At this point, Doe springs
the trap. With a sneer, he informs Mills that the head represents the sin of
envy, namely the killer's envy of Mills' heretofore charmed life. Of course,
the sinner will pay for his sin, and in the process bring down the final
victim, Mills himself, whose sin is wrath. Somerset, who understands the
situation fully as soon as he opens the box, tries in vain to prevent what
he knows is inevitable. Mills struggles to fight off his natural desire to
kill Doe, knowing if he does, the killer wins his twisted game, but in the
end he cannot help it. The film ends with Mills being driven off, presumably
in handcuffs, in the back of a squad car. No matter what happens to him now,
his life has been utterly destroyed. Much as with the suicide bombers of
September 11th, we are left with the sense of the sneering triumph of evil
over good, of a twisted life of hate given solely for the purpose of
destruction.So, what is the point of this film? There isn't one, as far as I can tell.
There's no moral here, only psychosis and brutality artfully rendered. It's
an appeal to cynicism, to shock value for its own sake. I suppose we are
expected to react by noting that the ending was `cool' or at the very least,
`original'. Yeah, right. And the really disgusting part is that this isn't
some low budget slasher flick, but a top quality production with big name
stars. A lot of thought, effort and talent went into making this film, but
the end result is something that deserves to be flushed down a toilet.

******
2 January 2000
2

this is a bull**it film heralding style over substance.  fincher couldn't
direct himself out of a box.  like "american history X" director tony
Kaye,
fincher can photograph alright, but neither have any sense of how to make
a
film. this is a movie for people who understand and are dazzled by flashy
camera work, and can be left with a mere impression of that, no story
whatsoever, and still find it to be "powerful."  and kevin spacey (one of
the finest actors alive, probably the finest) isn't given a thing to do,
while brad pitt is given 2 hours to brood.  this movie sucks, and the fact
everyone loves it makes it suck even more.

******
25 March 2013
1
I only ever take the trouble to review movies that I truly despise, and
Se7en is one of them. The film is a trite, cliché and asinine piece -
whilst possessing some virtues, is composed primarily of sins. A quick
note - other reviews seem to be criticising the "excessive" violence
and gore in this film - what do you expect from a film about a serial
killer? Firstly - the acting is good, for the most part. Freeman is
good as the Dashiell Hammet/Raymond Chandler inspired cynical old cop.
Brad Pitt overacts every time he is on screen, making his unbearable
character even more unbearable. Kevin Spacey does a suitably creepy
(albeit cliché) job of portraying a sadistic, masochistic serial
killer.However, my main beefs with the film lies not in the acting, but in the
plot. There are plot holes abound (I encourage you to read the review
"se7en problems with se7en") but this isn't the only place where the
film falls short. The entire story is predictable - as soon as we are
introduced to Paltrow's character we know that she's going to be the
subject of some nasty work. The final scene has to be one of the
biggest anti-climaxes in film history...The religious fundamentalist angle. Not that I'm overtly sensitive to
negative portrayals of religion, but it's getting a bit trite, don't
you think? John Doe (And yes, that's the name of the antagonist in this
film...) killing so-and-so because the Big Man Upstairs told him so. I
mean, why can't we have a serial killer inspired by Nietszche or
Stephen Hawkings or Isaac Newton? Why does it always have to be
religion? The "tributes" to film noir include the colour palette used
(yup, you guessed it, if you were to compress the film into a single
frame, then that frame would be mostly black and white), the fashion,
the typewriter that Freeman's character uses, the taxis, the rain, the
smog, the is-it-New-York-or-Chicago-nameless-city, the well-spoken and
well-read central protagonist & antagonist, the endless references
(atypical to noir and pulp) to literature such as "Dante's Inferno" But
this doesn't come across as some new and profound take on it - as say
Tarantino (Pulp Fiction, Reservoir Dogs) or the Coenn Brothers (The Big
Lebowski, Fargo) managed to do at a similar time, but it just comes
across as a constant rehash of lamentable pulp and noir tropes that
we've all seen before. It doesn't come across as engaging,
entertaining, though provoking or cool - it's boring.Seek out films such as "The Missing Person" or "Brick" for a much more
engaging take on neo-noir.

******
20 March 2009
1
This movie is almost unwatchable because of the pornographic use of
violence. There are filmmakers who use violence sparingly when
necessary and then there are the ones who wallow in it like porn. This
is an example of the gratuitous use of violence. The studios know that
Americans and lots of foreign markets like southeast Asia LOVE violence
for its own sake and so they dish it up because it sells. It sells
better than sex. Religious zealots will let their kids watch violence
while insisting that they avoid sex. So these kinds of movies get
elevated to Academy stature. It's symptomatic of the American psyche.
We would rather let our kids kill someone than have too much sex. Okay,
that's overstated but you get the point. Quentin Tarantino is one of
the most famous violence porn producers. David Finscher is talented but
I can just imagine him and Quentin masturbating to graphic violence.
They need it to get off.

******
18 December 2004
10
This is one of the best horror thrillers of all time. It's extremely
gripping VERY disturbing and very suspenseful with 3 AWESOME Main
leads, Saw was awesome but Se7ven is better. This movie really messes
with your mind and really makes ya think, and it's no date flick that's
for sure. This made me squirm in my seat couple of times. The ending is
especially chilling and trust me you won't see it coming, it's very
unpredictable and will make you feel uncomfortable (in a good way.
there is plenty of shocking blood and violence. We get a corpse with a
huge pool of blood around it , blood on a window, plenty of bloody
disturbing imagery, LOTS of nasty looking corpses, nasty stitched up
corpse, corpse without a stomach (nasty) gory photos, corpse with no
arm, severed hand in a jar, bloody beatings and more!. The acting is
Oscar worthy (in my humble opinion). Morgan Freeman is absolutely
stunning here and there is no doubt his performance was Oscar worthy he
and Brad Pitt had AMAZING chemistry together and was EXTREMELY likable.
Brad Pitt is AWESOME here and did a VERY good job and his character was
really likable and was great in the emotional scenes. Gyneth Paltrow is
GORGEOUS and does excellent as David's wife. Kevin Spacey is VERY good
here however i am not saying another word. R. Lee Emery does what he
has to do well. Overall i HIGHLY HIGHLY HIGHLY suggest you see this
right away! ***** SEE IT NOW!!!

******
6 November 1999
4

I don't understand why people think this is a good movie.  The plot is
predictable yet not really believable, the hero is unlikeable and the
villain, who is supposed to be the movie's moral foundation (go figure
*that* one), ultimately pulls the rug out from underneath the movie at the
end.The scene where Brad Pitt allows the killer to escape was irritatingly hard
to believe.  And what was the Gynneth Paltrow character's (not to mention
her unborn child) sin?  The killer was careful to choose people who (at
least in his mind) deserved to die yet at the crucial climax he completely
broke with his pattern in a most incredible way.And where does a "moral" serial killer come from?  Seems like an oxymoron,
but of course in the end we see that he's not moral after all.  Still, the
whole concept rings hollow and leaves one wondering what the point of the
movie was anyway?  It seems like it was just a story created to give the
film makers a chance to show grisly murder scenes one after another in an
attempt to shock us.If you want to see a much better movie along these lines (and much more
disturbing because it's believable), watch "Henry, the Portrait of a Serial
Killer."  And be sure to give it a higher vote than this
turkey.

******
9 July 1999
4

I basically thought this movie was exploitative junk.  The violence was
gratuitous and the plot was not compelling.  Although I must admit that I
found the movie very disturbing, that does not mean it was well made.
Watching people being tortured and mutilated for no reason is disturbing
even if the movie as a whole is terrible.  Moreover, my views are not
based
on my being squeamish -- which I am not.  I think Silence of the Lambs --
which is gross and disturbing, and which some people compare to Se7en --
to
be one of the great movies of all time.

******
12 September 2004
3
mild spoilers here regarding this movie and "Strangers on a train" and
"Psycho"It alway bothers me when things in movies get too complicated and
unrealistic. Maybe that's not the point if you are doing a "comment on
our society" as someone stated here, but to me it matters when you are
trying to do a crime mystery / thriller. I didn't get thrilled, so I
did not like that movie. As Chandler wrote it in an essay, if you want to kill somebody, you
don't train a snake to sneak into a closed chamber to bite the victim,
you don't dress up in a costume (see Edgar Wallace), you don't invite
ten people to a remote castle just to kill 'em one by one (Christie).
No you simple ambush the victim and kill him in a dark back road or
like Hitch did it in "Strangers on a train" on that island or the
killing of Arbogast in Psycho (yes I know there was a dress involved).This movie was clearly made before C.S.I. hit the screen. Heck, this
movie was made before they invented witnesses or anything else which
would be a challenge to the killer, like being seen when he stalks his
victims by a neighbor or something... He just enters the apartments of
these people like he owns their places and then kills 'em in the most
complicated way just to create the effect. And he gets away every time.
He's a genius, he's better than Arsène Lupin, better even than Keyser
Soze, better than the Joker, you name it. Make your comments on society and do a movie like "American History X".
Make a thriller - do it Hitchcock-Chandler-style. But is it just me and
old Raymond who prefer it that way??4/10 Macaulay J. Connor

******
15 May 2012
1
I hated this movie, if I wanted to see a movie with that much blood I
would go to a war movie. And if I wanted to see something as gross as
an, autopsy. The only good thing about this movie was the acting. I saw
this movie at home, if I had gone to the movie in a theater I would
have walked out in the middle and asked for my money back. That was my
mom's opinion, on this horrific movie! For me I found it to be
repulsive, I have seen some awful movies before. But this was a lot
worse than awful , from beginning to end . It was demented and
disturbing and if anyone thought that it was great needs help! We give
it an F!

******
30 April 2008
1
I know there are many reasons to like or dislike any movie, and that
most people who rate a movie 1 or 0 simply don't 'get it'. I feel a
great sympathy for those who cannot find anything to praise in a film.
Se7en is not an especially bad movie; it creates and maintains a
particular atmosphere most of the way through; it is deliberately
grungy, nasty, and brutal. The extreme lack of lighting serves a
purpose - Marlon Brando in Apocalypse Now seems bathed in floodlights
by comparison - and the film achieves its ends efficiently enough.I am relatively OK with gore and violence (either on-screen or
implied.) Many plots have holes, many movies get very clunky at the
end, many actors share features with cardboard, and Se7en is no
exception. If this film were in any way critical of the human capacity
for the sheer unbridled brutality which it portrays, I might forgive
it. If it had any redeeming qualities whatever, I like to think I would
be prepared to try to acknowledge them, however grudgingly. Many dark
movies manage to evince a knowing smile at some point, or succeed
through technical brilliance or gripping acting.But I came out of this film wanting to throw myself under the nearest
bus. It was as if everyone involved with the making of this film had
spat (I think I spelled that correctly) in my seat. My experience of
this film exactly matched that of another reviewer: it raped my soul.
What worries me most is that there are quite so many positive reviews
for this movie. I think this would have been one of H.P. Lovecraft's
favourites, since the guiding hand behind it is most obviously that of
Cthulu.

******
29 February 2000
1
Seven is the sort of film that takes several formulaic concepts, 
dresses them up with something trendy (title screens beginning and end, 
making me wonder if the guy from Homicide got paid), uses stock 
characterisations, piles on the repulsiveness on the excuse of realism, 
and then watches the money come in.

What we have here is the age-old veteran approaching retirement teamed 
with a young, aggressive rookie. The parts played somewhat predictably 
by Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt.

The killer in this movie plans to murder six people (seven dead in 
total) according to the seven deadly sins, hence the title.

The ways in which this is accomplished in five of these seems to be 
calculated to be incredibly disgusting, repulsive and downright 
offensive. The scriptwriters here certainly are no fan of Hitchcock, 
but rather King. The result of which was to basically make me feel 
slightly ill and disinterested in the film as a whole.

Now if they had bothered to put as much effort into the 
characterisation of messrs Freeman and Pitt, this would have been a far 
better movie. As it stands, you care very little for either of them as 
they just do not seem like real people at all. (I get to put a second 
reference to Homicide:LOTS as a reference point as to how it should be 
done)

Cinematographally speaking, the majority of the film seems intent on 
portraying the city as a "Bladerunner by day", muting most things in 
dull, washed out colours together with lots and lots of Rain. Gritty? 
Yes. Depressing? Yes. Boring? Eventually.

Two good things about this film. 1) The titles are pretty groovy, like, 
man. 2) Kevin Spacey finally gets a shot at making big movies, not 
before time.

But that is it.

******
20 October 2006
1
I'm sorry I can't give this film a negative rating, but I can say that
I wish most sincerely that I'd never seen it. If I could pay to have it
expunged from my memory, I would do so eagerly. If it's not too late
for you, I strongly recommend that you give it a wide berth.(Spoiler ahead.)Se7en (a pretentiously dyslexic title) is nasty, violent, unpleasant
and, worst of all, utterly futile. While being regaled by sadistically
repellent scenes of torture, you're stuck following a protagonist who
hasn't the brains to figure out an utterly transparent trap, which a
moron could see coming a mile down the avenue. This makes the
experience of watching Se7en a nightmare, all right, but not the sort
the director intended. Jonathan Miller once said that his own worst
nightmare was "being tortured for information I don't possess." Se7en
is like that. You pay for bad decisions you had no part in making.
Except one: the foolish decision to watch this repulsive mess of a
movie rather than, say, going to have your teeth drilled.The "twist ending" is a dangerous form, and rarely has it been more
abysmally, ham-fistedly mis-handled than in this film. Some people seem
to think that dark, dismal, depressing... and don't forget futile... is
the same as "deep." This film is as deep as a puddle of vomit. I
strongly recommend you benefit from my error, and avoid stepping in it.

******
28 May 2005
4
I used to have a thing for movies, but I think that I've more or less
exhausted the supply of good ones. "Seven" was not one of the good
ones, despite the high rating. The main problem comes in the form of
the villain. I just didn't buy it. By going down the list of the seven
deadly sins, it seemed like he was trying to incite reform amongst the
people. However, he did it in a way that kept it from being relevant to
the general populace. The scale was completely warped just for the sake
of the number seven. There needed to be more blood spilled in a less
ordered way to scare people, and I would argue that such a killer would
know that. Fear motivates people and could have brought about the
changes that all the characters wanted to see take place. That would
have been an interesting movie--people dedicated to maintaining order
realizing that the order needs to be subverted to do actual good. That
is an interesting conflict. Could the divorce really happen? The
groundwork was there for such action to take place, but the result
would have been too thought-provoking to be thrilling for the average
viewer. Fear shapes people's behavior more than anything else, when
present. Think about how many churches you see on your way to work.
Inertia takes over when fear is absent. The killer was too calculating
to suffer so many ineptitudes. And speaking of ineptitude--I am
saddened that people seem so incapable of telling the difference
between a good movie and a bad one. Shame on you again.

******
11 May 2002
2

This movie seems to have just one purpose, to show the limitless depravity
of the human race.  It's artful. Well acted. It is unforgettable. It will
take a piece of your soul from you, and you'll never get it back. I am not
a
better or wiser person for having seen this movie. And I was not
entertained. The movie takes from the viewer and gives nothing in return.
You'll be a better person for not seeing it. 

******
7 July 2011
1
SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERSThe whole and I mean whole movie was KILLED 4 ME by guess what? BRAD
PITTS crappy acting especially at the end. He was crying as if his dog
died, i could not stop laughing at it, so horrible that he should have
got a raze for it. In no way am I trolling at all, he crying then
outburst of anger and then his crying and panting was so horrible i
could not hold it in I had to laugh. Why the Frick was he hired? Brad
Pitt will kill the whole movie 4 any one who actually takes acting
seriously, I do not necessarily but for anyone who does, you will be
crushed by the absolute horrible over acting this Schmuck. Over acting
is so horrible in this movie by Brad Pitt at the end scene that it is a
disgrace to IMDb that this movie got such a high rating. Has this been
addressed before? Pitts absolute over acting rambling, crying, panting
and then his silent crying was horrendous.

******
26 July 2004
1
Quotations from Hemingway, "philosophy" about "the dark side of human
nature," more yellowed lampshades than I could count, and a totally
uninteresting and witless take on the genre. The relentless obviousness
and unsubtly of Fincher's homages to film noir were almost insulting.Oh, as was an offensive scene where Gwyneth Paltrow's character
winsomely demands to know Morgan Freeman's character's first name so
that she can address him by it, although *he,* an older African
American man and if I remember correctly her husband's superior, hasn't
offered it. (Isn't perky over familiarity one of the seven deadlies?)Rent _Chinatown_ and see what a filmmaker can do who knows we're
familiar with the genre and builds a devastatingly moving and complex
plot around the very fact that his main character thinks he's in a film
noir while we see something different going on.

******
2 July 2001
1

A film designed to appeal to those who have a fascination with graphic
cruelty and sadism.
The film telegraphs it's ending from the moment in the middle of the film
when Pitt, the detective, shouts after the killer: "My name is Mills. That's
spelled, M-I-L-L-S !"
It's a wonder he didn't add: "And I live with my much loved wife at 18 Ceder
Street, Apartment 3b". (In how many of these films does the killer
eventually wind up going after the hero's beloved wife or child as part of
the movie's climax? It's so much of a cliche of the genre that it's become a
standard closing plot element.)
The most depressing part of this film experience is not that the good guys'
lose and that the Jeffrey Dahlmer wannabe triumphs, it is that Hollywood
will do anything for a buck - and that has to be another catagory of deadly
sin not originally contemplated by Dante.
I don't care how good the special effects are. If the movie sets out to use
them to deliberately sicken the viewer; then it is an unimaginative misuse
of the technology.
A 1 out of 10, with 9 points lost for depravity and the cynical exploitation
of the viewing public.


******
18 October 2002
2

The ratings and commentary praising this disturbing piece of junk are
mindboggling to those who have a mind and an ability to discern
entertainment. Morgan Freeman is a great actor (What's he doing in this?)and
Brad Pitt is a caricature of himself. The best one can say about this "film"
is that it perfectly represents the self-indulgent nihilism of the Clinton
years. It's easy to see why Kevin Spacey (John Doe #1) is/was such a big
supporter. Garbage in, garbage out.     

******
16 December 2000
2

Where did this film go wrong?It splits into 2 parts: Good and very bad.The first 3\4's is good. Brad Pitt puts on an acting display that is less
wooden than usual and Morgan Freeman puts on his usual thoughtful guy role.
It's not Crazy Joe Clark from Lean on Me, but it's a decent role. Kevin
Spacey has the best part, but that's cause he's a nutbag.
Pitt and Freeman are on the trail of a serial killer who keeps leaving clues
in the style of the 7 deadly sins. It's an intruiging plot that has many odd
and nasty characters and scenes that are worth watching.Then comes the end. Brad Pitt's acting falls apart. I would swear that he
had just gotten up and read the script 5 minutes before filming. I don't
really want to say what happens because that kills the film and I'm not that
kind of guy. Let's just say that Pitt walks into a situation that would make
the strongest person fall apart. The emotion level should be beyond what
humans would normally feel everday. It's horrible. And yet, he acts as if he
already knows is like 'Oh man, that's bad. doughnut anyone?' It doesn't help
that I figured out the end way before it came up, but I lost any thought of
Pitt coming into his own as an actor. See the film, judge it for yourself.


******
26 February 1999
2
...so I can put myself out of my misery right now.  This is the most bleak,
depressing movie I have ever seen.  A completely joyless experience.  What I
wanted to see was a detective story about the pursuit of a shocking series
of murders...what I got was an overwritten, pretentious philosophical
treatise on the nature of good and evil, with no detective work whatsoever.
In almost every scene, there were table lamps that only lit the square inch
that surrounded the bulbs; it never stopped p***ing down rain, and
everything was cold and dark to the point where you couldn't see what in the
Sam Hill was going on.  Okay, I get the point already!  Yeesh.  Bleach.
Terrible.

******
17 April 2003
1

The only good part of the movie is trying to find out the identity of the
killer.  However, the rest of the film is just all about finding an
excuse
to put more blood and violence onto the screen.  They never explained why
the killer is obsessed with the Seven sins.  And the way they found the
killer was 100% laughable (going through a city's public library system
and
find who borrows a book.  first of all, wouldn't you buy the book instead
of
borrowing it from the stupid library? secondly, do they realize how many
people use that library and borrow books of the same title?").  A pretty
empty film, if you ask me.

******
22 August 2004
1

The so-called brilliant twist or surprise ending was not much of a
twist or even a surprise in my opinion. (Spoiler warning) There is a
moment towards the end of the film which refers to G.P.'s character . .
. it slows down the scene that is happening at the time, it is horribly
timed and out of place, and there is simply no reason for it . . .
except for one thing : to hint that something is going to happen to
G.P's character. Only, it is so out of place that it is not a hint, it
is a misplaced scream, and considering everything that has already
taken place and the sins that are left, you have a definite idea of
what is going to happen. The movie would have been better by leaving
this moment out. The only surprise for me (BIG Spoiler warning) was it
seeming to be the head as opposed to the baby/fetus in the box.
Personally, I think the idea of it being the baby is better than the
head because it emphasizes both their deaths more so and it is sicker.
And "sick" seems to be what they were going for for most of the film.
Anyhow, overall, it's an okay movie. But the ending to me just doesn't
come anywhere at all close to living up to the hype. It wasn't a twist
or a surprise, it was just "the end" . . .


******
20 January 1999
1

After just over an hour in the cinema, I decided I didn't care if ALL the
main characters were killed and I was hoping Brad Pitt would be. I only saw
the entire film on TV after a friend insisted it was good- all I can say is
they lied to me.
Too dark to see clearly, a rip-off of Theatre of Blood without the humour.
Yet another unconvincing performance from Pitt who may be pretty but hasn't
acted for years. 

******
18 January 1999
1

I can't believe so many people like this over-rated drivel.
Just think about it for a moment. The junky still being alive and moving -
saw that coming years in advance. The wife being in the film just to be
killed - saw that coming. Let's be honest, her character was so thin, why
else would she be in the film. The wife is pregnant. The nutter has loads of
jars in his apartment... a foetus would have fitted nicely in a jar, and
made so much more sense.And what happened to the ending? It was supposed to be a foetus in a jar in
the box, not a head.So, they used cheap gags to make people jump, and had a lame
ending.What was ol' Morgan thinking... At least Kiss The Girls didn't have Brad
Pitt in it.


******
8 April 2001
1
Wow. There are a lot of bad films out there, but even with the worst of
the worst there is some redeeming quality, like that neato big wave in
the Perfect Storm. But Se7en? The acting is flat (Brad Pitt's opening
lines seem like they're coming from someone acting for the first time,
his moaning at the end, when he gets his special gift, just seemed
pathetic); the script is not at all inventive and unsuccessfully
covered up by hyperbolic special effects and redundant gore. The
"twist" at the end is hardly disturbing because the writer/ director
have been shoving gimmicky horror effects down the our throats for the
entire movie. People who like this film- the dark, urban atmosphere, the pseudo-noir
elements: please watch some David Lynch films and see how this should
be created, i.e. not by using video game titles, not by relying heavily
on special effects, make-up, and yet ANOTHER plot with biblical
references, but instead by a careful selection of actors, beautiful
cinematography, and incredibly original stories.Stop funding this director so that he will go back to making TV
commercials instead of two hour long theater commercials.

******
19 September 2005
9
From director David Fincher (Alien³, Fight Club, Panic Room) comes a
spine tingling creepy and quite graphic crime thriller. During a week
(7 days), two homicide detectives, retiring Detective Lt. William
Somerset (Morgan Freeman) and enthusiastic replacement Detective David
Mills (Brad Pitt), are partnered together to find a deranged serial
killer, leaving clues behind. One by one, the killer seems to be
leaving messages referring to the victims. The first, the obese man had
the word 'Gluttony' (eat and drink excessively) behind a fridge, the
second victim had the word 'Greed', they realise there will be five
more referring to the other deadly sins (of seven): Sloth (laziness),
Pride, Lust, Envy (jealousy for another person's good fortune) and
Wrath (intense anger). As the days pass, and the last victims could be
drawing closer, and encountering the guilty man in a quick shootout, he
eventually hands himself in. The psychopathic Johnathan/John Doe (a
great Kevin Spacey) says he will take only William and David to the
site of the final victims, but what they do not know is that they are
part of the final two sins, and it comes to David's decision to let him
live, or shoot him and make him win, for killing his wife Tracy
(Gwyneth Paltrow) and putting her head in a delivered box. Also
starring Full Metal Jacket's R. Lee Ermey as Police Captain. It was
nominated the Oscar for Best Film Editing, and it was nominated the
BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay. Brad Pitt was number 15, Morgan
Freeman number 27, and Kevin Spacey number 4 on The 100 Greatest Movie
Stars, Pitt was also number 5 on The 100 Greatest Sex Symbols, he
number 52 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, and he was number 30
The World's Greatest Actors, and the film was number 14 on The 100
Greatest Scary Moments. Very good!

******
2 November 2003
3

I saw the movie for the 2nd time last night, and I still don't like it. If
you've got a strong stomach and like violent movies, then the film may be
something for you. I don't think I will take the trouble of watching it
again.Nice thing is the unexpected ending, although the detective act quite
stupid: they follow John Doe's plan exactly.Overall: 4/10.

******
25 November 2004
4
I know that many of you will probably want to strangle me for saying
this, but I fell asleep during my first attempt at watching Se7en. I
really tried to stay awake, but all attempts proved to be unsuccessful.
I just couldn't stay interested. In order for a thriller to satisfy me,
it has to have suspense and action. Se7en was lacking in both areas.
I'll admit that the whole idea of incorporating the seven deadly sins
into it was clever. However, the movie was not capable of holding my
attention because it did not show any of the crimes as they were
happening. When I watched the movie for the second time, I managed to
stay awake. Once I got toward the end of the movie when "John Doe" was
introduced, I finally understood what was so good about it. The end was
definitely praiseworthy because it was the only intense part. I don't
mean to bash the acting. Pitt, and Paltrow as well as the rest were
superb actors. However, the overall storyline was insufficient.

******
17 September 2011
1
A film about truth. In every nuances. With any texture. A film about
silence. survive. Expectation. Fear as fruit of every slice of courage.
A film without definition. Basic ingredients and few looks. A handful
of words. Shadows of wars and some Several meetings. R. Lee Ermey is
brilliant. Brad Pitt - impressive in a role with pieces of other
scores. But that are details. The taste of ash, the silence after end,
the last images and the sound of piano are more than results of
director art.A movie in which public is important part Not for emotions
or impressions but for its role of theater play. Without applause. Only
proof of ordinary events.

******
12 May 2008
1
Not on my scale. I choose "1" as a mark for this one. Why? Because it's
sick and perverted, neither entertaining nor clever, neither beautiful
nor comfortably ugly. Just oppressive. It's got very unpleasant
atmosphere and imagery. Who are these movies made for? They are
disgusting. When you watch this you feel as if you were bathing in
manure. Is it supposed to be the development of cinema and taste of the
audience since Chaplin movies? I'd rather keep with the old Chaplin
ones.One disgusting occurrence goes into another, then - another, and so on
until the list of the deadly sins is over. This flick deserves to be a
piece of entertainment for bored hit men, who can later discuss "the
head in the box" with their buddies (remember "Max Payne"?).If a movie is artistically weak and leaves an empty feeling - all
because of some fiction created by somebody, what's the purpose of it
all? I should also mention that many years ago I considered this movie
to be wise. And of course I wouldn't bother to write a review, but,
damn, it's on the top 250 list, which is depressing.Watch our "Stalker", "Ostrov", or "Solyaris" if you want a clever film
dealing with sins. That's all I've got to say.1 out of 10. Thanks for attention.

******
10 June 2006
1
There are few words to describe how much I hate this movie. Abhorence,
detestation, yech. They come close, but are not quite enough. This
movie is not simply bad, it is shameful. A bad movie is just bad. The
acting, story, script, or directing are flawed, sometimes all of the
above (see Plan 9 from Outerspace, or any Paulie Shore film.) When one
watches a bad movie, one seldom goes "Now that could have been good, if
only..." Se7en, like its ridiculous title, is not a bad movie. It is a
very bad movie. It could so easily have been a good movie that its
total failure is that much more appalling. What began as an exploration
of human vice and the criminal justice system soon dissolves into a
god-awful mess of unbelievable "motivations" and idiotic scripting.
What a waste of good material and fine actors. For Shame.

******
11 June 1999
1

A demented killer is stalked by the police after a series of bizarre
murders
occurred. The cops rack their brains trying to figure out the killer's
weird
thinking, but finally take him in rather easily. Shrewd little killer that
he is, he has a 'nice' surprise in store for one of the cops. This picture
was too complex to be completely entertaining. I feel the writer was
trying
to show the twisted working of a warped mind, but it just came off
confusing
and boring. As usual, Brad Pitt performs unconvincingly. He needs to
switch
acting coaches as he has yet to give anything more than a lackluster,
phoney
performance. I was particularly offended by his use of the handgun. One
can
achieve zero accuracy while holding this weapon at arms length overhead
and
pointing the barrel in the general direction of the target. Thumbs down
low.


******
1 October 2004
1

Brad Pitt is not likable, completely uninteresting. Want him to die as
quickly as possible so Morgan Freeman can get more screen time. Saw the
ending coming miles away. And then the film just dragged along at 10
mph wanting to involve me in a drama about Pitts characters final
decision regarding whet ever to kill in anger or control himself.
Oh-ho! Guess what happens!This movie should have been done from the serial killers pov - with him
as the hero and Freeman as the real anti-hero. And a different actor
than Pitt- Has he ever played something that goes beyond 2D?It is a pseudo-artsy film with no real depth. A postulate. A mental
exercise without any real drama. Bad script and bad script directing.
Fincher don't know how to tell his story. He only got it right in Fight
Club.


******
28 April 2001
1

A very dreary, feel-bad movie, overly long and hard to follow with a
nauseating ending. I seldom hear so much good about a movie, then turn out
so disappointed. Would be boring, except that it continually sinks lower and
lower, finally doing away with the only comforting thing in the film...
leaving everyone, including the audience, feeling utterly alone and
positively screwed (betrayed?)! Maybe good for fans of, say... David Lynch,
but this film focuses much too much on the seamy side of life without
actually doing much more than glory in its own dirty dinginess---wallowing
in it!

******
29 January 2006
1
Sure, this was a groundbreaking movie, sicker than anything before,
regret I actually saw this at a movie theater. Doesn't happen to often,
and when it finally happens, it's rubbish like this. Hardly what the
world needs...Photo like a flickering rock video, shadows, bad light and rain. Uou
often miss what's happening on the screen because of this, but
after-wards, you're glad you did. Morgan Freeman is really good most of
the time, but this makes me wonder.Doesn't really need more reviews, just a movie that made the world a
worse place, that's what it did to me but unfortunately it seems to
have far greater voting points that I could dream of.

******
10 August 2008
1
To be quite honest, i don't know what to give this movie. seldom has
there been a movie i wished i could unwatch, and this is one. but never
has there been a movie i wish i hadn't seen because of the degree of
truth in it.The acting in this movie is phenomenal; Pitt and Freeman really make
you believe in their characters, which is the reason this movie is so
terrifying. This movie makes the viewer confront the evils of society
through the acts of a proclaimed "mad man." As you watch this movie you
are instantly assumed into it, up until the point where you feel the
pain of the characters.This movie made me look at a world i didn't wan to see. It essentially
sucked the joy out of my day, and i am forced to ponder who in their
right mind could write a story with this degree of sickness. Yes it is
a good movie, but i don't think it is necessary in a day and age where
the pain in our world is already all too clear.

******
8 August 2003
1

I tried to keep an open mind while watching this film, but once the
mysterious plot twists and turns lead up to the climax, I was unimpressed
and anxious for the movie to end. This film is only interesting to people
who enjoy all-star casts, unnecessary violence, bizarre images, and boring
plot line. This is a typical '90s film. There was one scene that scared me
to death, so you might want to check the film out for that reason only.
Other than that, don't see it and expect anything good. I did, and I was
completely disappointed.

******
30 March 2001
1
Dude... this movie made me go back to the store and ask for a refund..
not for the $3.50 I paid to rent it.. but for the 2 hours of my LIFE
that it cost me. You people are killing me.. Yes, I'm talking about
you. Each and every one of you that said "Yeah, it's a really good
movie" and then refused to watch it with me. It's horrible.. don't be
afraid to say it. Morgan Freeman is a god. Sure, maybe if I was a chick
(or a gay dude) I'd think Brad Pitt is a Hattie.. but give me a break.
I can't remember the last time I invested this much of my life in
WANTING to see a movie and later, wishing I had gone for a drive with
Thelma and Louise. If you haven't seen it yet, go rent the Matrix. Sure
Keanu Reeves sucks, but at least you know what you're paying for...
--SirX

******
31 December 1998
1

This film has taught me to check the rating first.  I was completely blown
away by the sheer horror of it, and three years later I still have
flashbacks.  There was a warm and encouraging feel to the film, after
exciting credits and introduction to very appealing characters, which could
not have prepared me for the outcomes.  If ever a film goes down as the
turning point in our desensitization to violence, this is it.  I hope I
never see anything like it again.

******
5 May 2006
1
absolute, utter trash. another example of "the new Venice". not only
poorly and over-acted but completely bad, that is: worse than case of
herpes. i feel like a bangkok hooker on a Sunday morning after watching
this film - cheap and rooted. oh yeah, i have to write ten lines but
its really not worth it. zlatko, if you're out there, good on you! is
that really ten lines worth yet? the guidelines, the guidelines. this
film is not worth ten lines and you might think that its just a rave
but really, come on! wake up! Morgan freeman is a pansy! he spends the
whole film looking like he knows better. well, hell yes, he should have
known better than cashing in headless wenches in desert scenes. that is
definitely ten lines.

******
23 January 2001
1

This movie is an example of sick and trashy flick but people (who are these
people??) obviously think its great.  How people managed to find such a dark
and no brainer plot wonderful is really beyond me.  I was surprised that
people like Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt and Gwyneth Paltrow would be involve
in such an in-human violent movie.  Not entertaining and definitely not
making positive influences for entertainment or society for that
matter.

******
23 March 2003
1

One of the most graphically violent films I have ever had the misfortune
of
sitting through.  The plot, story, and acting are all executed adequately,
but there is an excess of violence and gore that was not necessary.  I
have
gladly watched many violent action films including Bruce Willis and Arnold
Schwarzenegger movies and war films like Saving Private Ryan, but this
film
combined with the movie Casino convinced me that there is a limit to the
amount of gore that I am willing to sit through.  Also I think I find
movies
about serial killers to be somewhat disturbing.  Unfortunately, Hollywood
seems to have seized on this as a means to a cheap thrill instead of
producing more thought-provoking crime dramas like Chinatown.

******
25 January 2003
1

This was truly a terrible movie. It was boring, the plot development was
predictable and slow, and it wasn't even frightening. Truly a horrible
turn
for Spacey, Pitt, and Freeman. I would recommend never watching this movie
in your life. It's an absolute waste of time. Take a nap instead, or read
a
book, or see a GOOD movie. This one SUCKS.

******
14 June 2007
1
It's rare when I can't find something to appreciate about a movie, but
this is one of them. I loathe this film. It is horrifically violent and
graphic. Truly disturbing, and I am not particularly squeamish. I like
thrillers and the occasional horror flick, but this was over the top. I
wish movies like this were never made - they can't be good for the
public in general. If we keep "advertising" for extreme violence by
making films like this, no one should be surprised when we get it.
Exercising a little restraint and common sense for the good of society
wouldn't hurt Hollywood, but they are much more interested in their
profits than anything else.

******
22 September 2004
1

Terrible terrible terrible. Avoid this movie like a child should avoid
Michael Jackson at the Neverland Ranch. Run kiddies run. The music
drowned out the barely hearable lines. It seemed to me like they
whispered through the whole movie. I couldn't get into this movie at
all. A friend of mine recommended this movie. I no longer take advice
from this friend. This movie is worse than Ishtar. Gigli seems like an
academy award movie compared to seven. I watched seven all the way
through and couldn't tell you what it was about. Totally confusing. How
this movie got in the top anything is beyond me. It should have been in
the bottom hundred.


******
21 August 2003
1

COUGHspoilersCOUGHThis movie drives me nuts because it is SO close to being one of the
greatest movies of all time, but it completely falls apart at the end. John
Doe's masterpiece is NOT completed, which doesn't necessarily warrant being
called the worst movie ever, but even if Brad Pitt had died in the end as
John Doe had planned, it still would have been flawed because John Doe had
killed an innocent (or two) in Gwyneth Paltrow. The worst part is that the
movie is set up to have the correct ending, but they pussed out and went
with something completely ridiculous. The way it could have actually worked
is if Gwyneth was wrath because we find out that she went through with the
abortion that she discussed with Morgan Freeman. Then John Doe kills Gwyneth
(wrath), Brad Pitt kills Doe (envy), Bam Bam: masterpiece completed. The
only thing I could think of that could have happened was this anti-abortion
ending was shot down by some idiot producer, so they had to change it to
something more "politically correct" (democratic), but I was shocked to find
that the correct ending wasn't even in the special edition DVD, so I can't
fathom what went wrong here.

